ParlaMint-DK_20210126132007	The meeting is open. I can just say as a service information that so far 74 have been logged in and that is not quite enough for us to vote. But that may change, because I have some information before we go to the vote, so see if you have logged in. The items listed as No. 4, 15, 16 and 17 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132037	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132048	Member of the Folketing Rasmus Jarlov (KF) applied for leave from 1 February 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132117	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Conservative People's Party in the Greater District of Copenhagen, Merete Scheelsbeck, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 1 February 2021 on the occasion of Rasmus Jarlov's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, with the agreement of the House, I shall abstain from voting and consider the recommendation adopted. It has been adopted. We shall now proceed to the votes. I hope, as I said, that everyone has been logged in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132153	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As that is not the case, I will start the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132206	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132240	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132256	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Is it ordinary small talk, or are there serious problems? I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 54 (S, RV, SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132338	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132351	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 94 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB and LA), against 2 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132415	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132425	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 70 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 26 (RV, SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132446	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132500	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, RV, SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and 1 (RV) (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132523	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132538	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132605	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132615	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 70 votes (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 25 votes (V and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132640	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132654	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132715	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132728	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132749	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132803	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132826	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126132858	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 8 (EL, NB, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 88 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, LA, Bruno Jerup (EL), Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL) and Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.45, and I would ask Members to leave the Chamber with a good distance from each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126134507	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126134541	Thank you. With this urgent legislative proposal, we will ensure against the spread of covid-19 in Denmark among incoming workers when employers provide accommodation for employees. During the autumn we saw a large increase in the number of Eastern European workers in Denmark who were infected with covid-19. In the Social Democratic Party we believe it is important that we act decisively in order to contain the infection with covid-19, because we are now well aware of the consequences of increased infection. Secondly, it is extremely important for us Socialists that workers in Denmark both live and work under proper conditions. To limit the infection is crucial both for the safety of the Danes and for Danish society in general. The emergency bill will introduce requirements for employers to draw up a plan for the prevention of infection in the accommodation of employees. The plan will include: should include information on, inter alia: the number of square meters of housing, the right to own bed, bath and kitchen facilities, access to alcohol and soap and the number of employees living there. The bill has two legs. The first leg is that the Factory Inspectorate will be able to require an employer to correct any shortcomings in the plan. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate will have the opportunity to contact the municipality of residence with a view to obtaining an inspection of the accommodation. If an employer has not drawn up a plan, this may be sanctioned by an injunction and, where appropriate, a fine. The second leg is that the draft law also proposes that the municipalities should be allowed to supervise the housing provided by an employer, in order to ensure that minimum requirements relating, inter alia, to: distance and cleaning are respected. In addition, the municipality will be given the opportunity to give notice of supervision 2 days before the 14-day notice now, and this is of course absolutely crucial in terms of controlling the infection. In addition, the municipalities will be empowered to require an employer to re house the employees if the required measures cannot be implemented immediately and it is considered that resettlement is necessary. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126134821	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126134827	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has read Pelle the Conqueror, where Lassefar works on a farm on Bornholm. He's got his own bed, I'll tell you. He actually also has access, at least in the yard, to wash himself. I believe that with this proposal we are taking a small step forward, admitted, but in today's Denmark, an employer or a director or a supervisor could never dream that he should consider whether he should be in the same bed as someone else when he was working, for example. for meetings in Copenhagen or other. But you can accept that, or at least today you can accept it for workers coming from other countries. Why is it not the case that you follow the places where the agreements have described these things? In e.g. The electricians' agreement states, in relation to accommodation for workers who are on the job of the employer, that you must have hotel-like facilities available, i.e.: your own room, your own bathroom and also an opportunity to heat your food, and not to share it with others, which is important especially in this time with corona. What is the reason why we are not taking the full step and saying that we respect the fact that workers should have the same conditions as employers and then give them proper conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126134949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126134951	Thank you. I think at first sight that it is also something about what the art of the potential is. We should, of course, have as many people as possible who support the idea that we can do something about the corona effort as well. So speed means something, and if we cannot get a majority in favour of things, we will not be able to take action. But I do share the rapporteur's view that having one's own bed must be good style and minimum requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135018	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135021	One of the reasons why I thought it was a good idea to support a Social Democratic government was that then more emphasis was placed on workers' conditions than is the case here, and I would guess that among the parties supporting the government there is also a majority in favour of going a few steps further than what is in this bill. It is a small step, but why should we take mouse steps when we have the whole world ahead of us and can actually take the opportunity to get proper conditions in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135050	I think that what we need to bear in mind here is the Corona situation and the Coronasmitte and the handling, and then working conditions are a slightly different discussion, which is also essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135106	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we'll have a despriting thanks for that. Mrs. Heidi Bank, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135127	Thank you. It is no surprise that we in the Left are very concerned about the health of the Danes and that we want to keep as much progress as possible in society, taking into account the recommendations of the health authorities. In a difficult time marked by corona and the concern that our health services will be overloaded if we are not careful and when we are politically closely following today's levels of infection, it makes sense to prevent the spread of infection, and we are already doing so in a large way. Danes of all ages wash and spritze their hands off, clean contact surfaces, hold distance, meet outside, gather few. Fortunately, it is temporary, like the urgent legislative proposal we are discussing today, on prevention of covid-19 infection when employers make housing available to employees. Whether it is the jacket from North Jutland that is provided with a home or whether it is the craftsmen from Eastern Europe. They too must be made aware of the possibility of reducing the spread of infection. Therefore, the government has asked for support for employers to be required for a temporary period up to the end of June 2021, so that employees have the opportunity to prevent infection better. In this context, it has been important for the Left to ensure that the urgent legislation put in place can actually be complied with by employers. That is why we have been concerned that there will be proper guidance for employers and that the guidance provided is clear and clear. We also attach importance to the deadlines and warnings given to employers and employees, for example. if there is doubt that a municipality must inspect the accommodation of the employees provided by an employer that the employees are entitled to the consideration that a visit is announced within a reasonable period of time, i.e. In the course of these 48 hours, which were also mentioned by the Social Democrat rapporteur. There, we believe, there must be a very specific justification for this if this is not respected as an absolute minimum in relation to the time limit for giving notice of inspection. However, as I said, we are in a quite extraordinary situation in which we must ensure that infection can and will be prevented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135358	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135401	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur stressed the need to listen to the recommendations of the health authorities. It is the case that they recommend that there should be 2 m's distance between us. The Factory Inspectorate recommends that at work you also have 2 m's distance from your colleagues. And then we see a bill here where you relate to housing for foreign labour, and then in the paragraphs you suggest that you have to have at least 1 m's physical distance between residents at all times. I am somewhat puzzled about this, because when the health authorities say that 2 m is what they recommend, why have a law which, as such, sets a worse standard than what the health authorities have come to recommend right now in this serious situation? What does the rapporteur think it would be reasonable to tighten up this bill so that it will also be 2 metres in the legislative proposal we are debating today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135504	I think that this is really a question that the Minister should answer, but in relation to it, it does not change our position. In other words, we think it is the recommendations of the health authorities that should be taken into account and, of course, there is also a political assessment. But we are concerned that we are currently ensuring that we can protect ourselves from infection and avoid infecting others. That is also why a great many initiatives are being taken at the moment, guides and legislation, in relation to it. One of the things that has also been discussed is, for example, that of the Commission. Something like driving a car together. That's the other thing. There it may also be a little difficult to comply with a 2-metre distance requirement if it is to work. I assume that there are some different balances for the health authorities, but I think that we should ask the health authorities, not the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135553	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135555	It is true, as the rapporteur says, that we also have an aspect in relation to transport from these homes to the workplace. It's not covered by this bill, but it's also a place where you could infect each other. I would like to hear the rapporteur: if you have this one-metre distance requirement, you can actually imagine that there are foreign workers sleeping in bunk beds and just keeping to 1 m's distance, even while you are sleeping. Does the rapporteur not think that this is too bad if it is where we end up that we can accommodate staff in bunk beds where there is only 1 m between them while they are sleeping?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135634	Well, it is not because I want to give an answer in relation to 1 m or 11⁄2 m or 2 m or 5 m, for us it is just crucial that it is the recommendations of the health authorities that are taken as a starting point, and that is why we are of course also happy to have a discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135649	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135651	Thank you. The rapporteur very well said that it is for health reasons that the contamination should be minimised. But then I would say that when someone is infected at Christiansborg, the staff will come and block the office off with red tapes and everything, because there can theoretically be infection that others could take with them if you used that office. Does the rapporteur not think that the distance is just as small as accepting the use of a common bath and accepting that one eats in a common room and that one has a common lounge, in a critical situation where we now get some extremely contagious mutations into the country, and that perhaps it is just below the bottom, if one wants to prevent infection, just to say that one has one's own things?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135738	I have to say again that it is, after all, the health authorities' assessment of these things that must be taken as a starting point. Perhaps I also think that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur should be careful not to sit on a slightly too high horse, since we also have families living together, and that is not where the whole house is being shut down. Nor is it, as far as I understand it, that the recommendation is • if someone in the household is being infected. At least I've heard of people living in the basement, and dinner is served outside the door, and everything is fine. So I think it is important that we follow the guidance of the health authorities in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135816	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135818	I certainly don't think it's getting on the high horse. It's common decency and thought when we know how dangerous this is. It is as if they say: well, we have done a little, and we can decorate ourselves with that, and then we have to see what happens, because it is only labour from outside. I don't think that's a proper way to do that. A director wouldn't put up with that treatment himself if he was in Copenhagen and had to work or have a meeting with some politicians in here. Then he would go down to one of the hotels and make sure it was okay. He wouldn't just say that he can just live in a hostel where others also live.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135853	If you have four workers living together in a home, I think they have a very good community. Actually, I think it's kind of like a family. I think they want to take care of each other, too. So I really believe that what applies to the group that works somewhere and shares housing, and what applies in a family, is a little the same. Well, that's being tested, and that's trying to take care of each other, and showing that thought in everyday life. That's why I actually think that in this way there are some good elements in relation to the information that is in this, so as to ensure greater knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135925	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Would you be so kind as to have a drink? Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126135949	Thank you, President. The background to the draft law is, of course, the five-fold increase in the coronasmit of migrant workers that we have witnessed. Danes have only doubled, and that is why it gives rise to intervention, and this government bill is then an attempt to contain it. What I can then welcome is that these rather intrusive measures will only apply until 1 July 2021, so that they will become an emergency law. We can only welcome this. There is, of course, the basic law and the inviolability of the dwelling to take into account, but I assume that the Ministry has provided for back cover from the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice so that we do not go into carambola with the constitution. What I have noticed is that this bill does not solve all the problems, because it does not apply to migrant workers who have found a place of residence themselves. So, if there is a Polish craftsman who comes to Denmark and somehow finds himself a home, then this bill does not apply, even if he finds it with three or four others. The bill applies to employers who make housing available to employees, and it is, of course, the weakness of the law that I do not know if the Minister might be able to comment on it when he is given the opportunity to do so. On the other hand, it is positive that the draft law counteracts social dumping, at least for a short period of time. This will make it more difficult for the employers and, of course, it is a small minority who are taking advantage of the EU's free market to subdue Danish labour, and of course we can only welcome the fact that it will hopefully have the positive effect. On the other hand, it is also a little strange to have to look at all the draconian measures with which the Danes have to live, while large-scale migrant workers have been excluded, and not only that, asylum seekers have been exempted on a large scale. They can practically step up at the border and wade over it because there is not much border control, and then they come up here without anyone testing them in any way. So there is a strange division of levels: at the top are asylum seekers, then migrant workers come, and at the bottom are the Danes, and they are the ones who bear the great burden. This bill is just a small step on the way to equalising the people who come to Denmark because of the free movement of workers, and we support the bill, and of course we have also supported the submission so that we could adopt it as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140257	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140300	I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether he knows what will happen if there is illegal labour on a construction site and the employer should be alerted before the police or anyone else went out and looked at the matter, just as if the Labour Inspectorate always alerted in advance before they took supervision? What does the rapporteur think would be the result of such controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140327	I do not know, but it may be that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur can tell me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140330	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140333	We are all living in a reality where we know what is happening, because what happens is that the illegal workers are gone, or the machines that are dangerous or illegal, are virtually removed. The same is likely to happen in this case, if you give notice two days before that that you come to check homes that have to have a certain standard according to the new law; then you make sure that there are at least two persons per person. Bed or the other things sketched out in this law. Then it is clear that there will be tidying up before control, and then there is no idea in the control anymore, because then everything can be avoided.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140410	Indeed, if the Danish People's Party had the power, there would not be so many such incidents, because we want to leave the European Union and thus have an independent state with border controls. This would also prevent migrant workers from seeing the major problems we have today. This is due, among other things, to: We have these problems with the high levels of infection among migrant workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140442	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140504	Thank you very much. We need to act decisively and quickly to put an end to the spread of infection, and this bill is also an example of this. In the Radical Left, we find the housing requirements quite reasonable, as they are presented in the draft law, and we are also quite satisfied with the fact that there is a sunset clause. The Housing rapporteurs and the Minister will probably note that I am just a new face here today, which is why I would like to have a few questions which I hope the Minister will perhaps comment on. Because in the Radical Left we are a little concerned about the part that concerns the municipality's supervisors' access to the dwelling, since it is proposed that the municipality has access without a court order. My question is how it harmonizes with section 72 of the Constitution on the inviolability of the dwelling. After all, the municipality already supervises housing if there is a suspicion of health and fire hazards, but the draft law provides for exceptions to the legal guarantees which normally apply. In addition, it is also unclear to me what is stated here in the comments, namely whether there can only be a house check on specific suspicions, or whether this can be done by regular routine visits. So it may be that the Minister will comment on it when he has the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140635	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140657	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government for putting forward this urgent legislative proposal aimed at preventing the spread of covid-19 in housing provided by employers to workers. In the SF, we believe it is important that we take urgent action to combat the virus and protect us all from it. This also applies to foreign workers in Denmark who sometimes live in very little space while working on, for example, a building. We need to ensure proper conditions for the foreign workers that we have in Denmark, both because workers should not be exposed to unnecessary infection and because we must do everything we can to limit the infection in society. Very much coronasmitte actually happens in the home, and the home of the foreign workers are these very small areas. We very much welcome this bill, which will oblige employers to offer corona-proof housing conditions. We believe that it is reasonable for the employer to draw up a plan for the prevention of infection in accommodation and, at the same time, we also believe that it is reasonable for the Labour Inspectorate to be able to carry out the necessary checks to ensure that the covid-19 is not spread because workers are forced to live too close. However, I also have some questions about the draft law to which I have not really been able to find answers in the legislative text, and I hope that the Minister can answer that, namely how many people can live together in these different homes, because we are talking about the maximum. five people in free time elsewhere. So I would like to hear about that from the Minister, and I would also like to hear about the possibility of having a private bedroom and thus an area where you can isolate yourself. Is that an option? I also think there was another rapporteur before me who talked about looking at common transport and work organisation, so that the same people from the same accommodation as the starting point also work together and whether it could be an option. With these comments, I should like to inform you that the SF supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140918	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126140924	Thank you and thank you for your speech. I just need to learn a little bit more about the issues raised by the SF rapporteur. In other words, when you talk about increased demands, I can also just speculate a little about it in relation to all those who are now not covered by this. Does the SF's rapporteur believe that it is necessary to spread it in all areas? Are these stricter requirements being sought here? Or are these stricter requirements here, which must then be applied to everything else? In other words, there has to be some connection to what you, for example, have to do. Do if what happens here, by the way, is something we have in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141013	I am not sure I understood the question correctly, Mrs Heidi Bank. Because I think it was kind of a long question. But what I can say is that it is important, of course, that we comply with the recommendations of the health authorities. My question is not, of course, whether it should be a requirement as such, but whether it is possible for us to prevent this infection as much as possible in the various workplaces.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141047	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141048	Thank you for that answer. That was actually an answer to what I asked. I would also like to hear: does the rapporteur also think that the making of guides, which is now being done in a large way, is perhaps a very good tool and something that we must stick to? After all, it is about people and their willingness to comply with the recommendations and guidelines we make.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141116	Yes, I am very, very much in agreement with that, so I think that should also apply in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141150	Thank you. Enhedslisten has supported this urgent procedure on this corona housing case, or whatever you can call it. After all, there are employers and temporary employment agencies which have accommodated too many Eastern workers in too little place for a long time, and society has not intervened in this regard. It is as if they have not been cared for until we came to the situation that it is found that more Eastern workers have corona than Danish employees. Then it is that you are prepared to make urgent legislation. It is a good thing that we have arrived at this point and are now putting forward a proposal which places higher demands on employers to provide housing when it is part of the employment relationship. But it is also a bill which does not solve what may be the case with the houses where it is the Easter worker himself who, together with others, has found a home. Is the law far-reaching or is it actually a step backwards in relation to previous legislation? Yeah, I actually think that's essential to dive into. I also think that there is a special situation, because we have seen employers, who are also in practice landlords, and there has been legislation in the past about it. Among other things, there are: was a law of 1960 to 1990 on agricultural workers, which dealt with the conditions that would apply to the dwelling area and around furniture. And it is actually a little thought-provoking to look into what that legislation ensured. And it was among other things that a helper who receives accommodation with the employer must have a close and moisture-free and otherwise well maintained, bright and airy room. The window shall not face a dung dung, pig's yard or the like. And then you get to it with the area: The room must accommodate at least 15 m3 for one person and 25 m3 for two persons and have a floor area of at least 6 m2 and 10 m2 respectively. What, then, are we seeing with the legislation that has been proposed here? It's actually lower standards. This is where it is made clear that the law gives 4 m2 per year. Easter work, and with 21⁄2 m to the ceiling it is 10 m3 per. Easter worker. In other words, it is inferior to what agricultural workers were guaranteed in 1960. Is this a reasonable standard in a killers' society in 2021, where we are trying to build a society and create prosperity and employment, and then that is what is being offered to Eastern workers? We have a bill which now comes to the conclusion that these Eastern workers will be guaranteed their own bed. What was it that farm workers were secured in 1960: the room must be lockable and provided with adequate lighting and heating devices. Each assistant must have his own bedplace and chair, and, if he does not bring a closet or a dresser himself, a locked wardrobe. And the room must be provided with a good table. That's it! Some things had been clarified back in 1960, and there was probably a good reason for this, because there were a lot of farm workers who almost lived at the end of the stable, and then they tightened it up, and that was good. And then we have legislation today that relates to these Eastern workers, and what are we offering them? I think we should take a closer look at that. What, then, is one's starting point? Among other things, you take. starting from the fact that you have a distance requirement when they are in this apartment of only 1 m. And we find it strange when health authorities recommend that we move around all sorts of places with a distance of two metres. And the Factory Inspectorate is looking at what are the recommendations in the workplace. It is also recommended to keep a distance of 2 m. And what are we seeing here in a bill? Yeah, that's going down to 1 m. Does this mean that bunk beds can be set up in a room where there is only one metre between the Eastern workers who sleep in that room? That seems to us to be a good thing to clarify. Then the bill here covers all employees who have a contract where you are guaranteed somewhere. And we don't want to see this bill undermining existing agreements. There's, for example, there's... The electricians, who in their agreement have some clarifications, in relation to the fact that if they are working, they are thus guaranteed accommodation in a recognized hotel, guest house or similar or after approved expense. So there we are in favour of Danish employees having the prospect of living in their own room, and frankly I think we should also consider whether these Eastern workers should also be ensured that they have their own room which could be locked off. Is this bunk bed solution really what we have to offer the Eastern workers when we try to keep the coronasmit down? We do not think that is fair. We support many of the intentions of this bill, but we also think it is important to clarify whether these employers are landlords of housing or whether it is a residential residence. And then we have a number of amendments which we will be tabling in connection with this urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141656	There is a brief comment on Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141657	Thank you. Now you might want to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether these requirements should also apply to the Danish handball national team, as far as I have understood, the two sleep in one room, but I must refrain from doing so. My question actually goes to this deadline, in relation to the fact that you are being warned that your accommodation is now to be inspected. In other words, I am thinking very much of the legal certainty of workers, given that it is their private area that needs to be looked into. In relation to the issues that have been raised here during the debate by the Enhedslisten, I have been given the impression that it is not so important, that is, the security they should have when you come in and visit them in their private homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141745	I have not, in fact, dealt with this in my speech, but it is true that the municipalities have supervision and that the legal clauses also state that this can happen without a court order. So what are they going to investigate? Yeah, well, I guess they're gonna have to check whether an employer is complying with the rules that are now being clarified in this bill. Does it go far enough that they can go there without the residents knowing in advance and without the employer knowing in advance? If the intention is to control the employer, I think it would be an advantage if they could make unannounced visits. That is also what we have a practice for in jobs, where I am quite sure that it helps to ensure that there are more real irregularities and infringements of rules that are being discovered in this way. But I can easily see the dilemma of privacy, including for Eastern workers. But I guess there's no question of the municipality coming and overseeing all the time. They come quite a few times, and perhaps it is on the basis of a reasonable suspicion that something is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141848	Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141850	I am actually glad to hear that that page is also something that Enhedslisten is aware of. Because I think there is often a tendency for it to be spoken as if Eastern workers, migrant workers, are some kind of citizen of lesser value and as if their privacy rights do not also apply; also in relation to the way in which they should be treated. I just think it is important that there should be that balance as well. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141922	Well, I think there are some of these Eastern workers who feel a little pressured. If you have an employer who is also your landlord, you are really dependent on that person, and you probably want to have a good relationship with that person, so you have the opportunity to continue working. I really think it would be nice to get some examples of how employers have used this situation to take too high rents, because that is what we sometimes hear, so that they are accommodated in some pretty bad place for which a high payment is then made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141955	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126141959	One thing is, of course, what rules apply in the workplace; another is if you lay down rules that will also be monitored in the home. I do not think it makes a significant difference whether that housing is one that you have rented or whether it is one that has been provided by an employer. It is still an intervention that you can get unannounced visits by some people who are entitled to enter regardless of what it is about. I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, about Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in his home complies with some distance requirements for the other members of Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's household. And if that's the case, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen in his home would find it very problematic if there was a bunk bed in which some of the householders slept?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142052	These are the private relationships that we are asking about here. It is entirely up to the rapporteur himself to reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142058	Well, I'd like to answer these things about rules and supervision. I think it would be a good thing to tighten this up if we were to make an amendment to this bill which, as it were, made clear that when an employer has to report how many employees he has accommodated in different places, a notice goes to the Labour Inspectorate. After all, the intention is to adopt a law which will then be complied with. I mean, I don't give much for the adoption of laws here in the Folketing, which have no meaning. It has then been found that there is too high a pressure of infection among Eastern workers, and I think this is very important to take seriously. That is why it is essential that there should not be too many people too close. And there I think the bill is a little too poor, that is to say one metre away, since the health authorities are out to say that we have to keep 2 metres apart everywhere, and the Factory Inspectorate is out to say: Keep 2 metres away. And then these Eastern workers can drive back in a minibus to some abandoned farm where they then have their accommodation and where they cannot keep a reasonable distance. In fact, I think it is a very justified criticism of what the health authorities are recommending to us in this particular situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142210	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142211	It is entirely relevant that there is a difference between being at work and being private. That is why, of course, it is also relevant to ask Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen questions about what he does privately. I do not see anyone interfering with such a question. What is interesting here is that we may well think that there must be rules in the workplace as to how far one should keep, and also that it should be controlled by the Factory Inspectorate. But to think that it should also be in the home, where we do not keep our distance, and where Mr. Nor does Søren Egge Rasmussen keep his distance from other roommates, and that there should be an unannounced visit, however, is another matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142248	Under no circumstances am I going to have a discussion with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, but just point out that it is a practice in the Danish Parliament which I think is important to maintain that personal relationships are not included in the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142259	Well, I'm not keeping 2 or 1 meters away from my wife. And if there are two Eastern workers who are spouses or boyfriends, I also think it is quite all right that they stay in a way where they do not keep one or two metres away. But I think Ole Birk Olesen is trying to derail this debate. In fact, I think this is a very serious discussion about how employers treat Eastern workers. And I have to say that over time some really bad things have come out that put employers in a bad light, and I hope that this bill will help to correct this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Egil Hulgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142402	Public health is certainly also important for the Conservative People's Party, but we also set limits on how far we need to compromise our democratic principles when we implement new legislation and new legislation that also violates some of the democratic principles. There has to be a really strong rationale when we do that. In the present proposal there are a number of issues that violate legal principles which we do not think there is a sufficient rationale for breaking. The Radical Left has already mentioned access to housing without a court order. We have a constitutional right to the inviolability of the dwelling, and we must enforce it. So when we go that way, and this bill does, we also have to be sure that there is reason to go that way. Then it is also a problem for us that there is no right of appeal. In other words, when the Labour Inspectorate and the municipalities agree that there is a housing problem here, a health problem, there is no right of appeal, and that means that the employer at some level is lawless. There is no need for a court order and the municipality's final decision is then there are also some unclear wordings in the bill: when is this draft law actually applicable? And then it was said that it applies to migrant workers, but that applies to all foreign workers. So there are also some boundary issues here. Firstly, with regard to the rationale of urgent legislation, there are some issues with urgent legislation at all. We know that, but I have to say it. I mean, we're not discussing enough in depth: is this the right bill? Have the right phrases been used in the right places? Does it affect the right people? Are there the right sanctions for the infringements that could then be? There is no consultation stage, and that means that those who are affected cannot object and cannot argue against it. Then the rationale is not stronger than that. Of course, there's an increase in infection in this group compared to the normal population, but this is a special group that we're dealing with, so you have to compare it with a population that was matching, and you don't. So I also need a proper data base to know if it is actually the right thing to do here. Fortunately, then, in society we see a decreasing incidence of corona, and for good reasons the bill cannot reflect that. The last objection I have is that employers have shown that they are actually taking this seriously. There is really good reason why they take the coronasmit themselves seriously among their employees, because it closes their own workplace. So there is an incentive on the part of the employer to actually go in to ensure that corona does not spread among their workers. For the reasons I have just mentioned, Conservatives cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142750	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142754	Now the rapporteur said that this bill applies to all foreign workers. That is not true, because the foreign workers who find a place of residence themselves are not covered by this proposal. In addition, Section 2 states that an employer must ensure that a dwelling provided by the employer to his employees meets the following requirements, and then there are some requirements. But these are actually requirements that could equally apply to Jutes, who work in Copenhagen, and where the employer provides a home. So you have to focus on this bill, too. That's why Enhedslisten has said that we should not end up in anything where this bill reduces Danish collective bargaining conditions for some special professional groups. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: although there is some prose somewhere in the comments on the bill that it is aimed at foreign labour, is it not true that this is actually a bill which applies to all employees who have a dwelling as part of their contract of employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142852	The Minister will have to answer that question. I have read the proposal in such a way that it applies to foreign labour, that is to say, all that I expect the Minister to answer if it does. That's how I read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142906	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142908	Now you have to read the bill as the word goes. I am not sure whether this proposal could undermine some rights which Danish employees have won for decades. So I do not think the rapporteur is right at all. But of course we can ask the Minister who is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142928-2	Yes, we can. However, it is not intended to go in and disrupt agreements between employees and employers in other contexts, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142940	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126142943	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he thinks it would be appropriate if the Folketing, when setting up homes for yder, Bornholmers and Funen people, were to use only the minimum requirements laid down in this legislation and offered, for example, the right to vote in local elections. the rapporteur to live under the conditions as a member of parliament. I am just asking because you have to be careful that you do not demand more of others than of yourself, and that is why I think it is a very important issue. What standard do we have to work on? I myself have been sitting with the chairman of the Folketing and discussing the standard of housing for members of parliament, and there have even been complaints about the level we have now and which I think is a very, very fine level. But I just want to ask: what would the rapporteur do if he was offered housing of this standard when he had to work in the Folketing and perhaps lived in Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143033	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143035	I think there was also a reference to my private sphere. Now I don't have a residence through the Parliament I live in my own residence up in Værløse. What I gave my rapporteur's speech on were some of our democratic principles and not the precise way in which legislation is organised, with regard to exactly how a worker's housing provided by an employer is organised. I therefore agree that there should be some requirements for the housing provided to workers by employers, but exactly what those requirements should be, I have not dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143117	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143119	That's too bad, because that's exactly what this law is all about, that's how the dwelling is to be arranged when an employer makes a home available. That is why I guess it's okay to discuss it too. The Folketing is also a form of unit providing housing, and we have some standards. The trade unions in Denmark also make demands on the housing in which Danish workers are to live, if it is the employer who has to take care of them when they are working elsewhere. So it's a very common question, and that's what this law is all about, but it's just about migrant workers. That is why it is important to take a position on this, and I would urge the rapporteur to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143158	No, this law is about how we ensure that workers who are provided with their accommodation by employers live in conditions so that they do not infect each other. That is what this law is about, and that is what we are going to compromise on, and the legal principles with which I have dealt with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143219	The next brief remark is to Mrs Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143223	Thank you. It's really mostly to get rid of some misunderstandings. The rapporteur was told and Enhedslisten has also mentioned that this is about foreign workers. There I would like the rapporteur to confirm that some exceptions have actually been made for foreign workers, in other words that this applies in some specific situations. In other words, if one foreign worker, or indeed one Danish worker, is provided with a dwelling by the employer, for that is the case for all workers who are provided with a dwelling by the employer, then one is exempted. The same is true if, for example, it is true. is a married couple who are provided with their accommodation by the employer; then you are also exempt. I would just like confirmation of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143305	I see the law as extensive, two or more, who share a dwelling and are not related. That's how I see the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143313	Mrs Heidi Bank for another brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143316	I actually assume we agree on that. And would the rapporteur also just confirm that there are not only foreign workers, but indeed workers who are provided with housing? I'd appreciate that. I would also like to say that I fully agree with the issue of redress. I think it would be a good idea to create a better framework for this. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143344	Yes, I'd like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143349	I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur, and while the next rapporteur is being spritted and prepared, I can say that the next rapporteur comes from New Citizens and that he is Mr Conservative. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143406	Thank you. We must be careful when combating the spread of the corona, at the same time protecting fundamental civil rights, and we must also continue to remember to preserve the proportions of what we are doing. This is sometimes something that we think we are at least losing a little in this, and that is why we also have a number of concerns that we would have liked to have examined. After all, it is a matter of urgency, so it is quite natural that we have some things that we need to examine in committee, and that is a great deal in relation to the legal requirements and the legal situation in which the citizens are sitting. We are very concerned if it is so that the authorities can enter private land, private property, or where people live and which they consider to be their residence, in a temporary residence, without a court order and these things. So there are some things there that we would like to see clarified so that we guarantee citizens' rights about these things. In addition, there is the question of the proportions involved, and I have some questions to answer when we deal with it: how many people live and live in these conditions that need to be addressed in relation to this legislation. We have also had a number of different developments in infection among these Eastern European workers, so I would like us to dive into it and ask whether it is the same people who are coming back and what proportion of those who are then thought to have already been infected. Well, is there, if there's been a major outbreak of infection in them, then some who already have these antibodies in them? Then the problem is far less than if it's new that comes in. So you can go a little deeper and figure it out, and it is, of course, about making sure that there are also proportions in the things we do. In addition, I would also like to know how much part you estimate there is of course something about it in the bill that has been infected because of their accommodations. I know you've looked at that in the past, for example. in relation to the slaughterhouse in Zealand, but later on a large number of employers have changed the conditions of the people who live there. So in the recent examples, such as those of us. Between November and December, there is actually less infection in Eastern Europe versus the Danish employees. But is it still the case that, in the new cases, after these companies have adapted to the new reality, there can be concrete evidence that these people are being infected because of the way in which they are accommodated? Because that's what this bill is about, and that's why it's important whether it can actually be related to it. I would also like to know how many of these homes are estimated not to live up to this. Then there is one point which is missing and which I also hope we will be able to come closer to in committee, and that is a calculation of the economic impact on business. This is not the case here, and I am very uneasy about voting through legislation where no calculation has been made of what this has to do with business. I don't know what consequences it has, I don't know about this, for example. may have consequences for the construction of the new Fehmarn connection, which may have to shut down for a period until they can have other conditions for these workers. And how much is that? How does it view Denmark in terms of the people and consortia that are building these things? I do not know whether that is problematic, but because it has not been elucidated, I cannot deny that it may be, and so I would like to see further clarification of what it is actually, this will have consequences for business. That is why we have not done our job fully in relation to this and we are awaiting the committee procedure that we must have before we say whether we can vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143749	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126143806	The Constitution has a section 72, which is one of the first paragraphs when you start listing civil rights, and section 72 reads: "The building is inviolable. House search, seizure and investigation of letters and other papers, as well as breaches of postal, telegraph and telephone secrecy, where no law provides for a special exception, shall be carried out only after a court order. I mean, you can't just barge in where people live to check things and cases unless you have a court order, and then there can be special exceptions where there is no need for a court order. And the special exceptions come out of the legislation. The most recent figure I have seen is that we already have 268 special exceptions in Denmark, which means that it is not really special anymore when there is an exception that is actually the norm. As soon as there is a government or parliament that wants to control something, one simply adopts an exception to Paragraph 72 of the Constitution. We have often had problems with this, that is, that the special exceptions are now perfectly normal and are no longer peculiar, and that we should stop doing so here and also roll back some of these exceptions, because otherwise Article 72 of the Basic Law loses its value, which is that one can be at peace where one lives, and not suddenly get unannounced visits by people who require to come in for one and the other and the third. Back in the time of the Thorning government, it went so far that the tax administration too should be allowed to step in across the threshold, at least into the ground, and we rolled back on that, but I think this government has introduced it again. And now there is another exception here. And that is what they say, because it is a housing which employers make available to people; that is to say, as if it is very important to see whether it is a violation to see someone coming across the threshold, that you have had your accommodation provided by the employer or if you have found it yourself. It is exactly the same thing; it is just as great a transgression. Therefore, this is comparable to people who live in collective or other forms of community or in families who may not have much space, but on the other hand have a lot of heart space where they can live close, where they can sleep in bunks, where they can do anything. There are families where mother and father and three children sleep in the same double bed, that is. It is quite all right for us here in Denmark to have rules on what to do and what not to do at work, and of course the Factory Inspectorate must check that to an extent that we consider acceptable. But the fact that there is also a need to control how close they live to their roommates when people have moved outside the workplace and have gone home is not quite understandable to me, that is why it should be necessary. Nor is it understandable to me why a special exception should be provided for to be controlled by the authorities, by the municipality in this case. So we're not gonna vote for this bill. We do not think that the reasons are good enough, and we do not think that there is any reason why a special exception should be made to the constitutional right to be at peace in one's home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144134	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144140	I think that this is an important issue raised by the rapporteur about the inviolability of housing, which is indeed a tough law in Denmark. I've worked in a tenants' association myself, and I know how tough the law is. But do we agree that the law is first and foremost designed to protect the people who live in the home and not the landlord? I mean, when I come as a third person and I want to see an apartment, I ask those who live there. I'm not gonna ask the landlord about this. And if those who live there say, yes, come in, and look at things, Christian, then of course I'm happy to go in there. Do we agree that there is a difference between whether it is the landlord who has to grant permission because he may have his reasons not to show it to the authorities, or whether it is those who live there who actually want to get someone to look at whether the apartment is now according to the rules, and then it is quite okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144232	Yeah, I think there's a difference between that. But I have understood the bill here, which we are discussing, in the sense that those who live in the housing provided by their employer cannot be allowed to say no to get visitors here. If I've understood correctly, I think I have... Christian Juhl's question is quite irrelevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144255	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144255-2	For me, it is essential that when you make a law like this, it is in order to protect the employees who work in the company and live in, as far as I understand, the company's housing, that is to say, that it is their conditions that you take into account and that it is their health conditions that you try to take care of by improving the condition of the accommodation, for example. with distance, proper hygiene, etc. etc. And that is why it is important that we start from this when we discuss it and that we do not rely on whether the landlord or, in this case, the employer thinks it is relevant that the authorities enter the apartment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144333	I do not quite know whether what I said was clear enough, but I know it is so that even if the people who live there do not want that visit, they cannot say no. It is their home, and it is therefore about the inviolability of the dwelling. It's not about the employer or the landlord or the like it's about those who live there not being allowed to say no. That is to say, if they do some things that they don't want other people to see, then they can't say no to it. If they run around with no clothes on, they have to open the door anyway, or if they have a visitor from whom they do not think they should be visited when someone comes to visit to look, then they must not say no to coming in and looking, or if they do activities that they do not want other people to be involved in, then they cannot say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144421	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I can then give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing and start by congratulating the new resort, which involves all municipalities etc. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126144441	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate and also for the support they have given. The background to the bill is a continuing worrying pressure of covid-19, which makes it necessary to take further action to contain and mitigate the serious consequences of the spread of covid-19 in Danish society. This is a special situation which requires special measures. We know that housing conditions have an impact on the spread of infection among people who live together and who can also pass the infection on to colleagues in the workplace and into society in general. We have focused in particular on the incoming labour force, where we have seen examples of outbreaks of infection in slaughterhouses and in construction workplaces where foreign workers have lived together. Therefore, in October 2020, the Danish Health Authority issued guidelines for preventing the spread of infection in housing for incoming workers. In addition, the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the municipalities have provided guidance on corona-proof housing conditions. However, the government considers that recommendations and guidance are not enough; there is a need to step up efforts with a new temporary legislation with requirements for housing design and for regulatory supervision when employers provide accommodation to their employees. The aim of the bill is to prevent covid-19 from being infected among staff. This bill therefore proposes to introduce a number of housing requirements when an employer makes a dwelling available to his employees. There will be, among other things: be required to have the necessary space per year; residents, so as to be able to keep distance, requirements for access to toilet and bath facilities and requirements for signage with instructions on cleaning and hygiene. The requirements are set on the basis of the Danish Health Authority's recommendations for prevention of infection. Employers will have to draw up a plan on how the prevention of infection is handled in the homes provided, and the Factory Inspectorate will monitor this plan in relation to the normal supervision of the Factory Inspectorate at the workplace. If the plan is not drawn up or is incomplete, the Labour Inspectorate may inform the municipality, which will be empowered to supervise the housing. When supervising the municipality, the municipality must check whether the required requirements have been met. If that is not the case, the municipality will be able to require the employer to bring the conditions into line with the requirements and to demand that the residents be rehoused on the employer's account. The bill is dealt with urgently by the Folketing, as it is necessary to bring the law into force as soon as possible in order to ensure the prevention of infection, and it will only work until 1 July 2021 and then be repealed. I should like to thank you for your comments and perhaps just a few of the points that have been made during the debate. The Enhedslisten has among other things: marked with a post about Martin Andersen Nexøs •Pelle The Conqueror. It's an excellent work. I can recommend Enhedslisten's rapporteur also to read Johan Skjoldborg's Gyldholm on the day tenants of East Jutland's estate. They each have their own homes, but still live in miserable conditions, and I think that the conditions for the farm workers were not defined by whether they had their own homes, although of course I fully agree that this is an important part of it. I think it is crucial that we adopt this widely and that we have the support to ensure that action is taken in relation to infection prevention, and that is why, of course, there has been a balance between the various comments that have been made by the parties in relation to how we have drafted this bill. In relation to the question of section 72 of the Constitution, several people have raised it, both the Danish People's Party, the Radical and the Liberal Alliance, we consider it in this way that it is the Ministry of Justice's opinion that it is possible to carry out an investigation if it is that the home of the law is clear and that it is also possible to derogate from the general 14-day rule, which is, for the sake that it would be impossible to contain an outbreak of infection if it has been 14 days. Therefore, the general rule will be 48 hours and it will be possible to make it even shorter if one considers that the purpose of supervision is otherwise destroyed. But the starting point is 48 hours and of course with written notification. So it will not be the general rule, as it is noted, too, with a certain sense of humor, that you walk in while people run around naked in their homes. It's basically at the minimum of two days' notice that you can get in. It is stated in the comments on page 7 of the draft law, that is that it is the assessment in relation to section 72 of the Constitution. Then there is the question of suspicion raised by the Radical Left. It will be the Labour Inspectorate who decides when to carry out an investigation, and they will then have to inform the municipality, which is responsible for the urban renewal law, and this will happen, as will the Labour Inspectorate. Among other things, there are: The Danish Labour Inspectorate has emphasized that it does not want to be involved in such actual labour disputes, and therefore the requests that will be made will be considered in the manner in which the Labour Inspectorate normally does so, regardless of who is sending on it. The Danish People's Party is then asked about migrant workers who have found their own accommodation. But there I think it is important to stick to the fact that this is for workers where there is an arrangement where employers provide accommodation, because that is where we have had the challenges with it. So if you find yourself a home, whether you come from Central Europe or from somewhere else, you will not be covered by this legislation. But that is where we have seen the challenges. Then questions are also raised about distance, and why it has to be 1 meter instead of 2 meters • among other things. SF raised that question. And our starting point has been that there have been different recommendations from the health authorities, and 1 meter was the requirement or recommendation that has been previously • now it is so 2 meters. But since this is going to work for over five months, we thought it was the most pragmatic way to do it, so it's also possible to keep a good fit. You can say that there are a number of rooms that would be difficult to stay in if at all times there were to be 2 meters between people and, for example, you share a room. So we have kept to the point of departure in relation to the fact that you can live in more rooms, even if you are a migrant worker and, for example, work for someone on a construction or construction project. Yeah, now I just took the ones that I remembered. You guys are gonna have to supplement this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145139	Thank you, Minister. A few rapporteurs will do that, as I can see from the list of speakers. The first brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145147	Now the Minister is advocating that something should apply for several months, so the distance requirement of one metre is therefore something that can be a pragmatic solution. But when we are in a special situation right now, when the health authorities say that there should be a distance of 2 metres and when the Labour Inspectorate says that you should keep 2 metres away from the jobs, it is a little special that you so speak that an urgent proposal is needed, an emergency law because we are in a special situation, but then go down to 1 meter, as if you are not taking it very seriously anyway. So this bill makes sense? Is that something that will move in relation to reality out there at the moment? Is the Minister aware that you're staying at a distance of 1⁄2 meters? Is that what we're gonna do? And it sounds like there may still be something in which foreign workers are accommodated in bunk beds in the same room in great style. Is that the reality we're looking into?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145251	I am not actually 100% aware of that, but if we are to think the example out to the limit, we can say that if, for example, you are accommodated in a bunk bed and you always have to keep a distance of 1 meter, then it is assumed that the person who lives at the top will have to wait for the person who lives at the bottom to move out of the bunk bed in the morning, otherwise you will not be able to get by if we are to be very fundamental about it. I do not think that is necessarily the right approach to this. I think it is important that we have the opportunity to make these visits when there is reason. It's been the central starting point. Our starting point has not been a general change in the labour market. It has been based on stopping the spread of infection and having the opportunity to carry out inspections in the places from which notifications are made that it is not taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145340	I am very much in favour of it, if you are to adopt a new law, having some effect. I think it could be a plus if these employers had to report to both the Labour Inspectorate and the municipality what kind of plan they have for accommodation, so it's nothing, the Labour Inspectorate or the municipality like to have to go out and discover. Can the Minister not see that there could be an advantage in the fact that there was some kind of reporting obligation for the employer to the Labour Inspectorate and the municipality prior to accommodation so as to prevent possible conflicts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145414	Well, actually, I don't know. I can see the rapporteur's argument, but on the other hand I would say that the Labour Inspectorate, as it works, is not my specific responsibility, but I am responsible for this bill here. We have to assume we have some insight into how these things are going on and are skilled enough professionally to be able to pass it on to the municipalities as well in cases where it is needed. That's how I see it, and I think they're perfectly capable of doing that, regardless of the fact that you don't do a check every time. There will be approx. 170 checks out of this bill overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145455	The next brief remark is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145458	After all, most of us move around in workplaces or educational establishments, and then we go home afterwards. Then there are some who go home to a one-family villa, others go home to a dormitory hall, and some third go home to a collective, for example. And none of the places where thousands, millions of people live, is there any requirement of how much distance one should be able to hold one another in certain rooms, and there is no requirement that the municipality should be able to visit to check whether one can now keep that distance etc. Then there are some foreign workers who have been provided with housing by their employer. There we simply have to enforce some distance requirements and there the municipality must be able to visit unannounced as a starting point, I understand, at two days' notice, but not always if it is deemed necessary to come without notice. What is actually the rationale behind the fact that in all these millions of homes we can let things go as they once do, but exactly when it is the employer who provides accommodation, we have to have a lot of control?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145617	The only reason why you can derogate from the 48-hour requirement is, of course, if you think that the purpose of supervision is lost if you wait. So I don't think you can just come up with a reason. But then I would say that you can look at this bill from many different angles. One can take a very liberal ideological approach to this and say: do we have to accept that someone is going into our cadastre? We have a pandemic in this country and we want to make sure that we take action against those places where we see in concrete terms that there is a large spread of infection. We're making this a temporary law. The 261, I think, various exceptions there are will still be 261 this summer, because this law will disappear again. But it will have helped us along the way to ensure that we stop the disease which costs society health and which costs billions of dollars financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145717	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145720	Yeah, but there's a spread of infection in every home. Whether it is dormitories or collectives or family homes, there is a spread of infection from father or mother who goes to work and gets infected there and comes home and infects the other, etc. So why should there be the special exception for people who are provided with their accommodation by an employer? They are in practice in their family-like bubble there, and we accept that elsewhere. Yeah, of course there's an infection in families because you live close. Why can't this happen here? Why should they be exposed to this particular attention?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145802	It is so simple that it is our experience that there has been spread of infection here. That is what we can see that has happened out in reality. And here in the government it does not matter whether it is in immigrant environments that we see a large spread of infection, or among migrant workers. If it is elsewhere in the country that we see a large spread of infection, we are, in fact, ready to address it because we think it is the focal point of the legislative proposal we are making. Of course, people living close together have a greater spread of infection. It goes without saying that if you are an older couple living in a parcel house in Lemvig, you spread less than if you live closely with a lot of other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145838	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145843	I would ask the Minister to go on a little journey with me. Four migrant workers go to Denmark and they are accommodated in a residence by their future employer. It could be a van. It could be a trailer. It could be an apartment. It could be a loft. This bill applies to them. Then there are four other migrant workers going to Denmark. They are called up here by a temporary agency, and the temporary agency tells them to find your own accommodation. We know someone you can call, and he's got one room, and that's 12 m2, and there's four mattresses. The four migrant workers move there and there they live. This bill does not address that issue and therefore does not address the risk of an increase in the pressure of infection. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126145946	That is partly correct. It is true that this bill is primarily aimed at situations where the employer owns or rents housing and then directly communicates them, but there may also be situations where an intermediary organises a dwelling or otherwise has a connection with the dwelling. I cannot say exactly what the case would be with the example set. It probably also depends on exactly how the link chain is between them, but the starting point is that it is if you arrange the accommodation. But it is clear that if there are four people coming up from Eastern or Central Europe, each with their own specific address, but in the same building, that would be another matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150028	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150031	Thank you. Then I have a question for the Constitution. I do not think there is much in the remarks, and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has something important to say: that there is I would really like to understand why the paragraph of the Constitution concerning the inviolability of the dwelling has not been broken. There must be a specific definition of employer residence for employees. Is it because they have a hotel-like character that you can do what you can do? I know the Minister is not a lawyer, but perhaps the Ministry of Justice could answer that question in depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150116	Yeah, I'm gonna ask them to do that. The basic point in the case is that there is a possibility of derogating from provisions if you have a clear legal basis, for example. It is a matter of supervision, and there is the assessment that, in this situation we are in as a society, we have serious reasons to do so, and that is the starting point for us to be able to derogate from the rules that are normal. But it is clear that we will ensure that it is extended to the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150143	The next brief remark is to Mrs Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150148	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the distance requirement was not a question from the SF, but from the Enhedslisten. What I asked was how many people could live in the different homes, bearing in mind that we can only see five people in addition to our own family. And then I would also like to hear something about the possibility of having your own bedroom, so that you can isolate yourself as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150215	We are not introducing this with this legislation. As one of the other rapporteurs mentioned earlier, there is, of course, a possibility that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. electricians in their agreement may require that you have the opportunity to have a proper hotel room for yourself when you are posted to a job. What has been the task here has been to ensure that we can do the supervision. It has not been to determine exactly how to live and whether you have the opportunity to live together less than five. The rules that apply elsewhere, of course, apply here too. In other words, it is the recommendations of the health authorities that apply and, like the rest of us, we need to pay attention to that too. But it has not been the starting point to change the rules for how to accommodate, other than that there should be distance and there should be the basics available: own bed and closet, access to bathroom and toilet etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150309	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150312	Thank you. Then I have another question. I also asked a question about the possibility of looking at common transport. Is that something that could be taken into account too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150322	Well, we have had a brief discussion about it, and I would say that there is no tradition in this country of regulating the way you are together in private transport, in other words in your own car. Other countries do, but we have never really done that. We can regulate public transport, public transport, in other words how it works in relation to aircraft and trains etc., but we have no tradition of it. And it's been the starting point that it's a pretty big job to start regulating it on this, especially considering that it's a four-month period.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150356	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150359	Thank you. I'd like to quote from the Pelle Conqueror. I think it is quite important to know our history and how things have evolved. I particularly appreciated my colleague Søren Egge Rasmussen's reading of the farm worker's conditions. Moreover, some good books have been written about how they have felt in agriculture up to the year 2000 - quite obscene conditions. I've been driving around checking them myself. I would like to ask: does the Minister believe that these rules will significantly reduce the contamination of these homes when we do not take into account common areas, community baths and communal kitchens? For then we have at least opened a door to the fact that there is still a reasonable risk of infection. Well, at home in our house, we've decided what we're gonna do if one of us gets infected, and we've figured out how to make a plan that we don't contact each other during the period we're supposed to be isolated. I think most people would, but if it's not physically possible for workers up here, what then?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150503	Well, I fully agree with the literary part of the question. I can also recommend Jeppe Aakjær's children of anger. It's a classic too. You have to be familiar with the Jutland, but once you are, it slides down quite easily, and there is also a concrete example of the same thing. But on the question of whether we think it works, I would say: yes, I am convinced it does. The municipalities started a counselling effort in November and December after we had seen some of these cases earlier in Central Zealand and elsewhere. Now we really step it up with you making these visits. There will be a 170 visit out of it together, but of course it will also have an effect beyond the specific places you visit, since people are aware that it is this legislation that applies. And I think that has an effect on preventing the spread of infection, so that you can not just stay exactly as you like, but that some basic rules apply to how you interact with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150600	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150602	Now the time is short, so we'll have to take the literature next time. I mean, if we are going to make a law anyway, why should we not take into account the other things in the housing, which are also sources of infection, rather than just taking into account the few things that are included in this legislation? Well, a common room, a kitchen and a bathroom are potential places of infection if you are many living in a dwelling. It's something that goes without saying. That's why most directors and others would like to have a hotel to stay in and not a common room down at the hostel when they're out for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150635	Well now I'm from that part of the country, how many of these, you might say, shun the craftsman's jack etc. Elsewhere, examples such as Scout's Sleeping Rooms are known. So just the fact that we go in and say that there has to be some distance, there has to be some systematic in it, I think will have an effect. It is clear that if you did it precisely and said that all people should have a large hotel room, it would have a greater effect, but it would also be a balance in relation to what kind of limitation you put down on business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150711	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150714	Thank you. I can assure you that I am also well at home in Jutland, and that is why it may be because you have your legs there that you kind of miss something and say: Well, it makes sense this! Because you require a distance in the home for someone's sleeping places and other things, but what about when they carry their way back and forth and they get in the same car and drive? In other words, if there is a spread of infection, it might as well happen there, and when they are working closely together at the workplace. That is the proportion of what I find difficult with, apart from the fact that we are very, very concerned about the constitutional law, of course. So we hope that we will be able to look at it in committee and that it is not something that the government is stubborn about. To the question of proportions: at the same time it is said that there has been an increase in infection. Yes, there is infection throughout society. With the most recent figures mentioned in November and December, there was less infection in Eastern Europe than there was in Denmark. So is it estimated that it is a threat that is present?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150818	Yes, we believe that if we stopped doing the guidance work that was done in November and December, we would risk the same thing we have seen in the past, that is, we would see the spread of infection. And then you can say, "Well, if you don't get infected in a car, don't you get infected where you work?" At any rate, I think it is crucial to say that if there is a link in the chain that does not infect, there are better conditions for containing it. Well, if you go to a construction site and drive with someone in a car, but after all, when you get home to the farm at Midtsjælland or Skuldelev Kro, or where you live, all those who are also in that accommodation are infected, it will certainly stop some of the infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150859	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150900	Yeah, and if we all put a plastic bubble like that around us, we were also more sure that no infection was created. It's the proportions I'm missing a little bit from this. If we were to slow down to 50 km on the freeway, there would also be fewer accidents. I miss, like here, seeing a calculation. I would like, when we deal with this in committee, to have a calculation of what it is estimated that this specific bill is of importance to our level of infection. Because we should not do anything if it does not have an impact on our level of infection, nor anything that can lead to a greater risk to our health system or anything else. That is why I hope that the Minister will give an answer as to what the assessment of this legislation is of importance to our infection rates.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126150943	I think a lot of people would be quite frustrated if the speed was 50 km/h. on the highway, there could also be some accidents out of that in a different way. At least I would. But I would like to try and we will do our best to give an assessment of that matter there. I think it is important to say that this is something we have experienced in concrete terms, and that is what has been set aside. It is not a theoretical experience that we risk getting some cases. That's because there have been some pretty violent cases with this accommodation, and that's what we're starting from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151015	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. The Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs Sounds like Lars wants to say something more). There was room for the two comments so that everyone who wanted to speak has the floor. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151038	The debate is open. And the first to speak is Mr. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151100	Thank you. In other words, it is actually such a strange situation to stand in, understood in the sense that sometimes you get the impression that everything is shut down and that it is extremely difficult to get started in any form of employment at all. But this proposal is actually proof that everything is not shut down and that we have both a world and a Europe, but also a Denmark which, despite the corona, still exists to a large extent, so that fortunately there are still a great many places in society where it is going. But it's clear that one of the challenges we're experiencing right now is that there are these different mutations that make that, even though we immediately thought that now we've sort of got it very well under control, and that it's starting to lighten, there's still a long-term challenge compared to being on safe ground. And it can be said that in the context of this legislative proposal, that is, L 145, we are tightening the screw a little, understood in the sense that in the past we actually proposed that it was a strong recommendation to employers that it was ensured that the migrant workers who were were being tested, while what we are proposing with this bill is going from a recommendation to a requirement. That is to say, it is a tightening up in relation to ensuring that we do not get this spread of infection. A good element in this, as I would have liked to say, is: when we make this demand, how do we ensure that it is followed up? And there we give a duty to the Labour Inspectorate to follow up on the fact that this legislation is also being complied with. I know that up to today there has been some discussion and some turbulence in relation to the draft law, by the fact that the comments on the draft law provided for the possibility, as is the case for everyone, of showing a negative test that had been carried out in the last 24 hours, and then, in the first place, there was nothing in the letter of the law about a time frame around this, but in the comments it was suggested that 72 hours were probably what one wanted to work with as a starting point. Some things have happened with the legal rapporteurs and with our health rapporteurs, so they have made some changes that mean that you have to show a test from 24 hours before, and then after 24 hours you have to have taken a test which also has to be negative. And, by the way, you have these 4 days... that's what's gonna be put up in the notes... to make sure you have this PC test. Personally, I think, and on the part of the Social Democrats, that there may in fact be a reinforcement in the fact that a negative test must actually be shown before entering the country, but in itself also took a test within 24 hours around this. So we think that we have made a good balancing relationship to ensure, it can be said that the companies still have the work to do, too, the migrant who comes from outside it is necessary to make everything work together, but in itself also make sure that we have a health element which means that this pandemic and these various viral mutations are not allowed to develop and spread. So the Social Democratic Party recommends the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151458	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151502	Thank you. A migrant worker comes across the border of Germany. He's had a test in Flensburg. He comes up here, and on Thursday he must have taken one again in Denmark, i.e. a quicktest. But the reason we're making this law is that we don't really trust quick tests, especially from abroad, so that's why he's gonna have to have a PC test on Thursday with the new law within 96 hours. It's a little complicated, I think. But he gets to work the 96 hours. These are the 96 most dangerous hours he is in Denmark if he has infected with him and the two quicktests have not worked. And that's what we're suspicious of. Why should he be allowed to work and risk infecting his colleagues the 96 hours? Why doesn't he have to be self-insulating until we're sure he's not contagious with his co-workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151559	So the starting point is that we have two quick tests, both of which must be negative, that is to say a negative test result, and that is to say we think that we are covered in the first place. In relation to the frontier labour force we have, it is also proposed that they should be tested at least once a week, and it can be said that between these tests there is always the possibility that some form of infection may occur. It can also happen at the company. We think that we have found a good balance in ensuring that we have a production plant with a migrant workforce, but at the same time also take into account the health issues that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151638	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151640	I do not know whether that is what I was asking, but I would like to make it clear that I asked why the migrant worker should even enter the workplace before we are safe. When we're wondering if those quick tests apply, why shouldn't he wait until he gets the PC test? And if the other two are safe enough, why on earth does he need a PC test? That's what's the illogical part of this weird system that's being set up now. That is why I would like to ask one more question: why should the migrant worker work in the workplace with a risk of infection up to the first four days, or 96 hours if we do not trust the first two tests? That is what I mean; it is a damn great risk to take when we want to put up a safety and it is the infection we are thinking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151730	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, and that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151733	It may well be that the answer is not satisfactory, but the answer is in fact still the same, namely that we believe that in this we have found a very good combination of ensuring production and a business sector, but in this way also ensure a health dimension that does this. We think it is a good idea, in this way, that we can vouch for it, even in terms of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151756	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151801	Thank you for that, President. I think the way this is going on is a little strange. It is quite okay that an agreement is being made in the area of justice and health, and it is also quite okay that we have reached an agreement in the field of employment, but it is not right that the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Health have apparently not been properly informed of what agreements we have concluded with the Minister for Employment. When we concluded the agreement, it was not just an authorization; it was about the maximum. Seventy-two hours after you had taken that test when you had to go in. I have spoken to my health rapporteur, and it was not in the negotiations with the Minister for Justice and Health that we had actually reached an agreement in the field of employment. Isn't it a little strange that you say: then we just trump the Minister for Employment and make an agreement that it's only 96 hours after you get the first test before you get to Denmark that you have to have a PC test? That's not what we agreed over at the Ministry of Employment. We agreed that it should be 72 hours after the first negative test before entering the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126151909	In other words, if I have to rely a little on the memo prepared by the Ministry of Employment, it says that it is in order to establish detailed rules on when the PCR test after entry into Denmark is to be carried out and on the exclusion of groups of persons from the test requirement. The draft law will thus be followed by an announcement that the PCR test is expected to be carried out within 72 hours after the entry test. So we are talking about what is expected. What you are doing here is trying to harmonise, rather than making laws that go in different directions. And it is noted that Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that in relation to the ministries there might have been some sort of coordination of this. I just think, in relation to the comments that follow, that it makes sense for us to achieve harmonisation, rather than making one piece of legislation in which we administer in a way, and then another piece of legislation that is managed differently. That is what could have been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152006	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152007	I think it is a little hopeless to convince the Social Democrat rapporteur of the logic of this. Because if it is the case that you make an agreement in the area of justice and health, which states that you have to have a negative test before you enter the country, and that you have to have a new antigen test when you have come to Denmark, and not until 96 hours after the first negative test before you enter the country, do you have to have a PC test, why do we have to stand and make an agreement with the Minister of Employment that employers should ensure that you are tested when it is trumped by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health. That's where the chain gets off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152052	I would say that it is noted, but I just think that if you look at the draft law as a starting point, there are two elements to it. One is that with regard to this, it goes from a recommendation to a requirement to the employer, and the other is that the supervisory authority becomes the Labour Inspectorate, which is to ensure that this legislation is complied with. The second is something that comes in the remarks. But I understand what Bent Bøgsted says. I think it might just still make sense that, instead of going in one direction and driving in another direction, we are going in a rather common direction in the other two areas, and that is what I think is being put up for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152127	Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the rapporteur is preparing for the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152144	Thank you. We are standing here again because extraordinary times require extraordinary solutions. The Coronapandemic is still raging all over the world, and the last month we have also had to deal with two new virus variants in Denmark. The world has suddenly become very small. There are people who come here who carry the infection with them. The new cases stress the need to test all visitors so that we can stop the infection at the borders. For the Left, the health of the Danes has the absolute highest priority. We need to contain the infection and take care of each other. We all have a responsibility both to achieve the goal of knocking the virus down completely, but also to ensure that the reopening of society can take place. In the Left, we are constantly concerned to weigh up the restrictions that are necessary to maintain as safe an environment as possible, and we must protect the Danes from viruses. Restrictions are part of the solution here, but it must also work in practice, and that is why the legislative proposal we are discussing today is also temporary. This is therefore true for a limited period of time. Then it is also about the responsibility of employers today. They must ensure and demonstrate in the future that they will have their employees tested for corona, and we have also found occasion to support this after discussions in the Left. We must ensure that employers contribute to increasing the number of entry tests. As I have said, they must take care of it and be able to provide evidence of it if they are asked to do so. Of course, we also need to provide flexibility for employers. This proposal must basically contribute positively to our fight against corona, which is why we must also ensure that it does not drown in bureaucracy, but we must all bear a share of the responsibility for its success. The Left wants Denmark to do as well through the Corona crisis as possible, and the bill is intended to contain the infection. As I said, the Left can support that. In addition to this, we believe that we should discuss how to ensure that we can offset the additional costs now imposed on employers, for example. order private test solutions at the job, at the workplace. That is why we will also be asking more questions at committee reading, and we will also, if we cannot obtain broad support for it, table an amendment to ensure that if you as an employer have private test costs, you can also get them reimbursed. These should be the comments we have on this bill. And then it is true, as the previous rapporteur has said, that it is going so fast at the moment that the draft law has been obtained in this way by some discussions we had yesterday in the circle of legal rapporteurs and health rapporteurs and, in the case of the Left, also employment rapporteur. However, that discussion has just begun and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152541	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152545	Yeah, I promise. With the two legislative proposals that we are likely to deal with first on Thursday, it happens that someone from, for example. Poland or Germany enter Denmark. He can work from the first day because it is a so-called recognition-worthy purpose to work. If he came here to stay in the country for other reasons, there should be 10 days of self-isolation. What is the difference between walking on the streets and infecting others and going to work and infecting others? Is there any difference in the danger that the same person with the same infection who has entered the country may not walk on the streets but must be self-insulated, but must be able to get to a workplace? Why is there that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152643	Yes, the person in question cannot enter Denmark at all if he does not have a worthy purpose. What we agree on is that if you come here and work, it is a worthwhile purpose, but you cannot come here to take a holiday. That's why it's all about trying to strike a balance between stopping the infection and still ensuring that Denmark can move on, and I think we're trying to strike a balance on that, both with this bill and with the forthcoming urgent legislative proposals coming on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152715	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152716	It seems to me that the concern for the profits of companies is more important than the concern for the health of other employees, and that is why. On Thursday there will be a bill that says that others who do not have to work here must have 10 days of self-isolation unless they take a PCr test along the way. Then you can be free of self-isolation. If that is not true, I am even more confused than I was this morning when I had talked to the Minister for Employment for an hour. So I think it's time we started to stop and get an explanation of what's head and tail in these things, but so far I have the impression that you can enter on two conditions: if you want to walk around in society as a foreigner, you can't do that for the first 10 days; there you are in self-isolation, but you can go to your workplace and infect your colleagues. Wherein is the health guarantee in it, no matter how to explain it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152817	Basically, you cannot come to Denmark if you do not come with a worthy purpose. This is not because tourists are not walking around here in Copenhagen or in Aarhus. We are trying to strike a balance between stopping the infection and ensuring that Denmark continues to drive away. Production is still going on, and we in the Left think we should support that. Then we fully agree that you have to be tested before you come in, and with new measures you also have to be tested within 24 hours and again on the fourth day. There is thus an increase in the number of tests since we agreed with each other on this issue in the field of employment, and we in the Left have found occasion to support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152903	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126152906	Thank you. I shall not try to make myself aware of the policy of the Left here, because I understand how the Left views it. I just want to make sure I didn't misunderstand sir. Hans Andersen, for Mr. Hans Andersen said that it had been discussed with legal rapporteurs and health rapporteurs. And then Mr. Hans Andersen went on to mention employment rapporteurs. But it was not in the context of the negotiations over at the Ministry of Justice that Mr. Hans Andersen felt that the employment rapporteurs were involved. That was the information we were given this morning or what? If that's the case, sir. Hans Andersen says that the employment rapporteurs have been involved in negotiating it, at least something has passed me by. Nor has DF's health rapporteur heard that the employment rapporteurs should be involved in negotiating it. But we have been informed this morning, and it may be that it was, Mr President. Hans Andersen referred to. It's just to make sure there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153001	I do not know how to work in the Danish People's Party, but in the Left we feel that we work very closely together. And when the Left Health rapporteur and the Left Legal Rapporteur were not the legal rapporteur, it was actually the business rapporteur that has a discussion on a subject, an area which also affects employment, then we have a close dialogue. And there we found occasion for me to listen to that meeting as well. That is why I am fully aware of what is happening in the legal, health and employment fields precisely in relation to migrant workers, and I am, in fact, very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153041	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153045	Yeah, but then sir... Hans Andersen does not take all the employment rapporteurs under that hat, because that is something that has been done internally in the Left. After all, this is not something the employment rapporteurs have been invited to do by the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Health. That is something that has been done internally in the Left, i.e. included Mr. Hans Andersen in that orientation. We have not heard anything from the Minister for Justice or the Minister for Employment that something was going on in this way. It's fine that the Left drives the way they do it. It's fine, and I understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153114	The understanding found yesterday about isolation and a clear tightening up in relation to people who come here is due to discussions which have taken place over several days. Actually, it's been over a week since they started. I have been continuously involved in these discussions, and I also hope that discussions on this have been held in the Danish People's Party, because this is a significant tightening of the admission rules that we will have to decide on on on Thursday. But yesterday we have created an understanding that this is the path we must take to contain the infection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153151	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153220	Thank you for that, President. After all, the bill we have here has been watered down since we sat on Skype and negotiated it with the Minister for Employment, and I fully agree that employers must be required to ensure that new employees from abroad are tested. That is clear, and there will be no change in that. But when we made the deal, it was also said that it was max. 72 hours after the negative test was taken abroad. That's what we agreed over there, and it was in the cards that that's how it was supposed to be. Then it is suddenly said by the Ministry of Employment that it is only an authorisation and that that with hours does not count at all. It is an authorisation and the Minister can change that at any time. Yes, we had the impression that it had changed downwards in number of hours and not rising to 96 hours. That was not what we had given the Minister a mandate to do. That's why it's so little strange. Because this brings us to information on what has happened in the area of justice and health, and I think that is fine as well. There are many good things in there, among others. also that you have to be tested when you come to Denmark. In the Danish People's Party we really just want you to be tested before you start work. When you get across the border, you can easily start immediately and then be tested within 24 hours... a second antigen test or a quicktest... and then, 96 hours after you get the test abroad, you have to have a PCr test. But the only thing that is now being said in this bill is that a legal requirement is made for the employer to have them tested. At the same time, there is the strange thing about ignoring the agreement that it was maximum. 72 hours, as we were actually told that this was the case. For already at that time, the Danish People's Party wanted to be tested before starting work. You look at that very much, and that is fair enough, that is the majority and what you want in this connection, and it is still quite fine that the Left has the way they work. But there is nothing about the fact that neither the Minister for Employment nor the Minister for Justice have come to the employment rapporteurs that a new agreement was being drawn up which means that people coming to Denmark are going to be in isolation in their spare time. They can run around in the workplace and infect people if not the test they have been given is okay, because some of the quicktests that are not durable are still gone, and therefore there may well be some running around and can infect others. But they must not do so in their spare time. But in the workplace they can run around and infect. It's kind of strange. That is why I also thought it appropriate that we had a change, so that you only had to have those tests before you could start at work, once you had come to Denmark, at least the new quicktest. We think this is right and proper, and in this respect we must of course say that we find it regrettable that it is going on in this way and that we do not get any information on it in advance, and I am not even sure that the Minister for Employment attended the meetings of the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Health where it was negotiated here. But you're just being trumped over, and it's being said that's how it's supposed to be, and I understand the Left. Because they want to open up, they want to be free of these tests. They really wanted free access without testing or anything, and that is quite understandable, and I respect the position of the Left, but that was not what was proposed when we negotiated this. But of course, the Danish People's Party can support that you have to have a requirement that they should be tested, we just think that there should be more and that there should be a requirement that you should have those tests before you had access to the Danish labour market. This does not apply to the borderwalkers, and it does not apply to those who drive back and forth every day that they have some other rules. However, this applies to arms and leg companies, and there are some who come up and have to work longer on construction sites where they can run around and infect. We also saw in a slaughterhouse that some people had been infected with them, and that is not the case. But now we have to look at what is happening in committee. However, I think we should have an amendment to the effect that we should first have the test before we can start at the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153723	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome to the radical rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126153803	Thank you very much. This is the second urgent legislative proposal we are debating today, and there will be another one just afterwards. This in itself shows that there is a broad willingness among the parties to act decisively and quickly, because it is precisely this extraordinary health crisis. In the Radical Left, we are keeping a close eye on the fact that restrictions and urgent legislation are in line with the health situation we are facing. That is why we are particularly listening to the health authorities in relation to the covid-19 issues, and we are also listening to their concerns about the spread of infection. That's why we think this bill is quite sensible. We have discussed this in several rounds with the Minister for Employment, and we have brought up several rounds from the Radical Left, that it is good to impose a responsibility on employers to test their employees, who may be migrant workers, and it is also my very clear feeling, after talking to the employers, that they are ready to assume that responsibility. But we also believe from the Radical Left that when employers are required by law to test their employees, it would be appropriate to cover the costs incurred by employers as well. That is why we agree with what the rapporteur of the Left has said about tabling an amendment which compensates for the costs that employers may incur in order to obtain private tests. We welcome the fact that this draft law also contains a sunset clause and generally supports the draft law, but in other words with the amendment that we will then be tabling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154002	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154006	Now I want to run a test and see if I can do a little better this time, because the rapporteur of the Left did not understand what I was asking. If a migrant worker comes to Denmark, he or she can go to work after the traditional two fastest. And for four days, we don't know exactly if he or she is contagious for 96 hours. If I come home to Denmark, I am strongly encouraged and probably on Thursday charged What is the difference between having taken infection with as a migrant worker to a workplace and as me, where I now come from, taking the infection home to Denmark and out into the street? Well, I can't do it when I'm not at work, but at work, I can go and infect people. How much is there in it when it comes down to it? These are the four most dangerous days when a migrant worker is at his place of work, i.e. the first four days when he can infect people. Why not even isolation in both cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154119	In one case, there are people who go to work, and although we have a lot of restrictions in society for Danes here today, there is also a difference between whether you go to work or not going to work. For example: After all, we are being tested with these lightning tests before we enter the Assembly Hall and associate as colleagues. So I don't have the same doubts about these fastest ones, sir. Christian Juhl expresses himself. Actually, I think there's a reason you can take these fastest. And it is true that they cannot be as precise as PC tests, but they are there for one reason: they provide some kind of assurance that you are infected or not infected, especially when you have two in a row within 48 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154205	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154207	There were two reasons for this bill when the Minister for Employment put it forward. Point 1: We are facing an extremely contagious mutation, perhaps even more. That is why we need to pay close attention to our workplace, and I think that is a good thing. But we also need to be out there in society, which is why we need to be self-insulate. I don't understand the difference. So you can both infect and become infected in your workplace, and you can both infect and become infected in society. Both places we try to make a lot of effort to wear masks, spritters and everything else. What is the difference, apart from the fact that the employer still has to be allowed to make money? I do not understand the health angle in the two different situations, and therefore I do not understand why both situations do not require self-isolation until we have a PCr test. Because that's point 2, that's that we don't trust the fast tests, and that's why we have to have this legislation and have a PC test built in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154308	Again, it may be that Mr. Christian Juhl doesn't trust the quick tests I do and I think there's at least a reason we have them around, and getting a result goes faster. In relation to the fact that employers can just make some money, it is not only that it is also to keep production going. There are some of these functions that are critical to society. In fact, it is also for employees to continue to have a job. So there are several elements in it, and I think that Mr. Christian Juhl also knows that if we meet less in our spare time, it makes room for us to meet more often in a work situation. That is why we are also present here in the Chamber and have not shut everything down completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154348	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154416	After all, the legislation must keep up with the development of the infection, which is why we are once again faced with an emergency law. After all, many people work further out there at work, corona or not, so we have to take good care of the many people who do their jobs and who meet colleagues from other countries. The infection must be cut down and the infection chains must be broken, and the tools can be among other things. testing and isolation for a limited period. Therefore, it may seem somewhat strange, i.e. the way the law is screwed up, in relation to people coming to Denmark and working from around 9 a.m. 7 in the morning to a quarter over 3 in the afternoon without mask and with hundreds of colleagues on a larger construction site. But the moment it's done, you might not be allowed to go into Fact and buy a litre of skimmed milk on the way home. The logic of that, I think, would make such special demands on the Communications Department of the Ministry of Employment, because that does not make sense immediately. And to this extent SF had also liked to see tighter conditions with e.g. isolation in the first days after the foreign labour force has arrived in Denmark. I think that there are some doubts here, and there is clearly also an overlap with the agreement reached by the parties' health and justice rapporteurs, which will have to be dealt with on Thursday. So we in the SF will follow this carefully in committee, but now we can say that as far as we can see from what is there, however, in this law there is a shift from recommendation to demand, and there is also a clearer location of responsibility for supervision. We will therefore be in favour of the law, but we still think that there are some areas here to be asked about. And we can do that during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154623	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126154635	I think it makes sense to focus on the workplace as a site of infection. I have mentioned this many times in our meetings since last summer. We have had doubts with the Minister about how much was of risk, but we have nevertheless agreed that there is a great risk, both for Danish workers who infect Danish workers, i.e. resident workers who infect resident workers, but also for migrant workers. What has happened in the last 24 hours or two is that there has been an immense amount of ambiguity. This means that we are now faced with two legislations that intersect, and it is very difficult, as the Minister himself said, to keep track, and he also admitted this morning that it was difficult to explain how these two laws, which are now going to work in society and inside the workplace, were really connected. And I'm sorry, but it's a mess. We should have postponed this for 24 hours or two so that we could have clarity and agree on the consequences. Even with an additional note from the Minister there has been no clarity about it, and I find that unsatisfactory. That means we risk doing something sloppy. What I am most worried about is letting people with infection into the workplace for up to 96 hours the most dangerous period while they are in the country and where there is the greatest risk of infecting colleagues instead of letting people go into self-isolation for a period of time, so we are sure to have done the safer PCr test, which is one of the reasons for making this law. It was used directly as a justification last week by the Minister for making this law that the PCr test is much safer than the foreign and safer than the Danish quicktests. I think we need to build something into this bill to get to the finish line. When I was younger, I was in a market once, and there was a man who wanted to sell me a bucket. I got it for a five, and I thought that was a good offer. When I got home, there were a lot of holes in the bucket, and then I wanted the money back, and then he said, "A bucket is a bucket." It can also be said of a law: A law is a law. And in this bill there is one or two good things, namely that the employer is obliged to ensure that a test is carried out at least and that the Factory Inspectorate must, of course, supervise that legislation. But I guess that's what I'm saying. If we really meant something serious about saying that it is to reduce the infection, we would do a lot of other things at the same time that are not included in this bill. First of all, this means that the entry workers do not have to start work until we have done the PC test. This would really provide safety for the others in the workplace. Secondly, we had to make it clear that there had to be an increased effort on the part of the health and safety at work for the sake of infection at the workplace, in other words in order to have an infection-free working environment. It's not mentioned in a word in this context. Some would say they have to anyway. Yes, yes, but there is a difference between meeting minimum rules and, so to speak, in this particular situation where there is a serious infection and knocking on our door, we need to clarify that. Thirdly, I believe that colleagues at the workplace should have the right to tests under the same conditions as entry workers if it turns out that they have worked with an entry worker who has tested positive. The Minister has refused to do so. I think it is a minimum of a requirement that the workers in question are entitled to a test during working hours so that they can be sure that they have not been infected if their colleague has been infected or ill. Fourthly, entry drivers driving cabotage or combined transport must be covered by this law. It's totally pointless to let people drive around the country loading goods off and on and getting in touch with lots of people at Danish companies, and then they're exempt from these rules. We know what the situation is, and the industry itself has described how crazy it is, and have appealed to the minister to make it so that this bill also includes these people. Fifthly, for health reasons, the employer must focus on using resident labour and must be able to document that he or she has asked at the job centre whether there is any unemployed. I should like to say that there are quite a few unemployed people who are newly unemployed since March last year because of corona. So there's a double reason for that. The Minister rejects this in a written reply. He says there is no need for this; they must be trained and ready for the new transition. I think that is a completely insane answer. We have a lot of unemployed people, and we might as well get them started. Finally, I would like to say that I would like to buy the bucket, but it should not be filled with holes. So let's try to use the next few days to fix these things. Otherwise we will have to table some amendments so that we can close the gaps in that bucket.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155205	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. If sir... Christian Juhl would be kind to drink off. So we don't use buckets here. There were no brief comments to Mr. Christian Juhl. Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, and welcome to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155236	Thank you, President. It is extremely important for our companies that borders are still open to trade and incoming labour. In order for this to be possible, it is also important that there are very clear rules for incoming workers so that we avoid bringing more infection to Denmark. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the agreement and the bill here which ensure that our companies can continue to use incoming labour properly. This should be done by requiring employers with incoming workers from high-risk countries to ensure that they are tested for covid-19 after entry into Denmark. However, we in the Conservative People's Party would like to call for some flexibility for employers. In the context of this new test requirement, situations that may appear inappropriate or unintended may arise. That is why we also welcome the fact that the government is ready to introduce authorisation provisions again, including, for example, when the test should be carried out and the like. We have seen several times during this pandemic that the private sector has shown itself to be very willing and flexible. Of course, the same impression must also be given to the private sector in their meeting with the public authorities. We are co-sponsors of the amendment, which the rapporteur of the Left mentioned in his speech, that employers should be reimbursed the cost of the test. But all in all, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155424	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur here. Welcome to the New Citizen's rapporteur, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155450	Thank you. Well, then we have another bill on restrictions, tests and other things. And that's very funny, because the bill we were dealing with just now was about this, about who should be right, and new demands on how foreign employees must live in order that the infection should not get around. But if they are now tested from home and we test them when they come in, and the 4 days after they may also have to be tested, then it doesn't matter much what we were dealing with just now. And what we are dealing with now may then become more or less indifferent to what will come on Thursday. It's starting to be a bit of a mess shop, and that's why I was hoping you'd start running these things together. For why charge the expenses I think it was 6.8 million. kr. in the last draft law, plus that we could not even be told what it had to do with business for something that may not be necessary because we also adopt some other demands for business? It is my call from this that we should start to keep our tongues straight in our mouths and ensure that we do not create increased bureaucracy and administration and unnecessary rules that will overlap. So I look forward very much to the bill being tabled on Thursday to see if this is completely withdrawn or whether the two are being run together or adapted to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155627	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155639	Yeah, it can be hard to keep up with all the laws that come. So the bill which is supposed to come on Thursday and which Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentions, I'm not even aware of what kind of a bill is. It is probably another rapporteur who has it. And that is why it is difficult for me to say whether the bill on Thursday makes it superfluous here, but if it does, then I do not think we should adopt it here. That sounds absolutely right. And that's also a good argument, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, when he asks if it was necessary, if we adopt it here, to do what a majority would do under the previous draft law. Regardless of what will come on Thursday, if this is isolated, it seems like an excellent legislative proposal that we can support. But we would also like to endorse the view of the Left and Radical Left that the employer's cost of testing employees here should be compensated from public funds when the public authorities come and make such demands. So we would very much like to vote in favour of an amendment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155750	Now I have heard a number of people from the bourgeois side say that you have to be compensated if you are to have private tests at the workplace. I don't quite understand where the boundaries go. If you want migrant labour instead of the large group of unemployed people who are currently out there, then you must also do a little to help ensure that the workplace is safe and test that those workers do not bring infection with them. The test is free. All that is stated in the legislation is that transport and working hours are, of course, on the employer's account when it takes place during working hours. I guess that's very logical. This is the case with all the things that are necessary to be able to work at your workplace. What is the reason why employers should receive even more compensation in relation to what else they get?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155844	First of all, I would like to say that we do not have a lot of available labour available for these jobs. After all, it is not as the Left likes to say, although the Left knows that it is not true, that the rules of availability ensure that people are actively seeking work and that they really want a job. It's not like that. Many people for whom it is not worthwhile to work do what they have to do to be available and receive cash benefits or cash benefits, but they do not really want to work in, for example. These jobs. So it's just not true. Then I would say that if you, as a legislator, impose this cost on employers for the sake of public health, then I also think you should be willing to pay your share of the bill for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155924	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155928	I would like to admit to the rapporteur that there are probably some of those who have become unemployed in the last six months who cannot take a job as a nurse, a doctor or other things that we need at the moment and which we are asking migrant workers to take. But I would now venture to claim that there are very, very many of the jobs where, with a little effort on the part of employers, many of the people who are currently unemployed because of the corona could be used. Anything else would be illogical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126155956	No doubt some of them could be used, but it requires that they want to take on this work. It is a well-known fact that employers do not seek people who cannot Danish because they think it is more fun to speak English and have the linguistic misunderstandings that sometimes arise. They would prefer it if they could have an employee who could speak Danish. But the problem is that there are not the employees available for a large number of the jobs sought by foreign workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160025	I'm a little in doubt. Did Mr. Christian Juhl didn't have two questions? Yes). We don't want any doubt here, so sir. Christian Juhl gets another question. Because I'm in doubt because we had a shift in the middle of it all. I don't know if sir. Ole Birk Olesen thinks it's okay. Yes. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl. We're not gonna cheat anybody.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160044	Thank you so much. I just want to say that this is a funny approach to this question. So there are at least 30,000 additional unemployed at the moment. The 30,000 are available for the labour market. There is no doubt about that, because otherwise they would not receive a daily allowance. That is why, of course, they are available with the qualifications they have and with both their body and soul for the employer who needs them. That is why the rapporteur is putting up a myth. Of course, employers sometimes take foreign labor to save money. It's a completely different thing. But they might as well take the Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160119	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160121	I think that the vast majority of people in the unemployment queue want to get a job, but they do not want to get any job. They have a desire for what the salary should be, they have a desire for what type of work it should be, etc. This is why it is very often seen that although there are a number of unemployed people in the labour market, no one makes themselves available among the Danish unemployed for certain jobs, and therefore it is necessary in those sectors for employers to find people abroad who will take on those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160152	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160212	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs for a good discussion and for their comments on this draft law. What the proposal is about today is • and I think it is very important to emphasise what the fundamental purpose is, and a number of rapporteurs have mentioned it is after all to have control of the risk of infection, so that we ensure public health and, at the same time, ensure that companies have access to labour, so that we support important Danish jobs. Health and the economy must go hand in hand so that we can get through the crisis. During the whole of the covid-19 crisis, the government has maintained access for incoming workers to the country for the benefit of Danish companies and because we also want production to be able to continue as far as possible. The government wants to maintain this access, but this requires us to take the right measures to prevent external infection. The effort group, including the health authorities, has assessed that the B117 variant and other new mutations represent a significant risk that the infection in Denmark may escalate significantly. In the light of the assessment of the effort group, the government chooses to act on a precautionary principle so that we can manage the increased risk of infection, and it is important that we act quickly before we risk seeing sudden spread of infection. That is also the reason why the government wanted to see the proposal dealt with urgently. People travelling into Denmark can start new chains of infection and therefore have a negative impact on the pressure of infection in Denmark. Therefore, the government proposes with the bill here that incoming labour should be pcr-tested after entry as a follow-up to the quicktest they have taken as part of their entry. It is a recommendation that applies, and the government is now applying with the bill here Parliament's support to make it a real legal requirement. This also ensures that any positive samples can be sequenced, as it is only possible with PCr tests. In this way, we quickly uncover the introduction of new varieties of viruses in Denmark and increase our ability to control the epidemic. The bill states that employers must be required to have accessory workers tested on entry and that the Factory Inspectorate must supervise compliance. Employers must inform the relevant ones about the test requirement and must have a plan showing that the relevant ones have been tested in a timely manner. The Factory Inspectorate will monitor that employers have drawn up this plan, and the Factory Inspectorate may also ask to see evidence that specific employees have been tested. It is provided for in the proposal that employers themselves pay the costs associated with the claim. The government believes it is reasonable for employers to take responsibility here when, at the same time, we continue to allow incoming labour. It's about ensuring a balance between health and the economy, and I think the government has found this proposal. I look forward to the further discussion of the draft law and, of course, make myself available to the forthcoming committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160520	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160526	Now I do not think we should be wandering around in all the confusion that exists, and I hope that the Minister will see to it that we are swept off the table before we finally adopt the bill. However, I would ask the Minister to explain why he has not been particularly willing to take into account the FH's proposals, which very briefly relate firstly to clarification of the purpose of introducing post-entry tests; secondly, to self-isolation until the test response is available; thirdly, a certain time for testing; and thirdly, that it is pointless for legal certainty that there is no precise indication, for example, that there is no precise indication of. the 72 hours; fourthly, a proposal to prescribe screening by means of tests every week. This is done in a number of jobs of your own choice, but it is a very good way to do it, so that is what you want to continue. And then they think it is important to clarify the high-risk countries. Then they have a few comments on the Factory Inspectorate's supervision and guidance in the legislation. You've got one small sentence in the comments on the bill that was supposed to cover this. I don't think that's enough. I think the Minister should follow FH's requests.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160638	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160640	There were a number of questions. In general terms, I would say that we have also listened to FH on the legislative proposal here and, of course, on the whole, and we are also listening to employers and have taken their comments on board. This bill, and I think that is important to say to the debate, regulates two things in particular. First of all, there is a genuine legal requirement for employers to ensure that the labour employed in the company is also tested on a computer basis after a notice has been issued. That's where sir. Bent Bøgsted has previously correctly referred to the fact that it has been 72 hours. We have talked about 96 hours at other meetings following the discussions that have taken place in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice, because at times an additional test requirement has been introduced 24 hours after entry, and this is a point where we also say that we are discussing further with the parties of the Folketing what the exact number of hours should be. Compared to what some countries are high-risk countries, we are following the entry restrictions that exist. Right now, every country in the world is in red, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160750	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160753	But we are now in a situation where we do not know how long the dangerous period is, that is, the period during which the entry worker can be at his place of work and infected without us knowing it. It can be 72 hours or 96 hours. Just letting people into the workplace without knowing whether they can infect their colleagues is a high risk which could cost employers a great deal of money and society a great deal of money. Why don't you do it like you do it in the bill on Thursday, i.e. with self-isolation until we know the answer to the PCr test?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160828	I understand what it is, sir. Christian Juhl says, but I think he overlooks the fact that with this bill and what we know there will be in the bill that will be put forward on Thursday overall, there will be a considerable improvement in terms of testing requirements on entry and in order to be able to get in at all. Well, the starting point is, of course, as sir. Hans Andersen rightly said earlier in today's treatment that one cannot enter Denmark unless one has a recognised purpose, and it is now supplemented by a proper legal requirement to the employer as a duty-fulfiller that he must ensure that ahn's employees have been PCr-tested within a statutory period.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160912	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160936	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126160943	There's been a lot of discussion about this. I believe that, at some point, we began to use an expression that there were a great many Monday trainers, and so it has been in connection with the discussion on how we have had to deal with this crisis. There are some who think that it has been too much, and some that it has been too little, and it is of course about how we as a society and we as a Parliament in here at Christiansborg have managed to navigate through this crisis with these aid packages... some will now call them compensation packages. But on a very, very large scale we have really tried to keep our hands under the labour market, so we still have a lot of jobs during the period we are in now. There are a lot of people who have asked: why are we not fully compensated and 100 per cent when we talk about compensation for wages? It is a pity for employers that we cannot cover everything; why is it only the employers who should contribute to this? To that I just want to say that I think we are seeing today that what has happened is that somewhere we are all helping to contribute to the health crisis we are in, also to prevent us from going into a huge economic crisis afterwards. I just think that the tripartite agreements concluded on 14 January on this are proof that what we call the Danish model works and that it works very well. It is an agreement that both employers, but in itself also employees, contribute during this period, when we have some challenges in terms of health. So, on the part of the Social Democrats, we support the tripartite agreement that has been made and can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161212	Thank you. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we help the hard-pressed companies as well as we can to help as many companies and jobs as possible to survive when we have got through the crisis, because the Danish company owners are currently experiencing very, very difficult conditions. It takes too long to pay out the money from the various compensation schemes. I visited a tavern owner in the North Zealand the other day, and if he wasn't gray-haired, he would at least have been by seeking and seeking and no compensation few, because it takes too long and money is far too slow to be paid out. But there are small flashes of light in the dark, and one of them is the proposal we are discussing here today. After all, this is an arrangement that we have talked about in the past and which has worked in the past. This bill ensures that employees can be given a short notice of their holidays in companies receiving compensation for wages, and that is, I think, a good arrangement made in a tripartite agreement, and we in the Left support that. We can hope that with this bill we will be a small step further forward and ensure that as few companies as possible go bankrupt or have to dismiss more employees. This is also a way of saying that now we are all contributing, both business owners and employees, to getting through the crisis in the best way. So with those words, I have to say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161425	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161454	Thank you for that, President. This is an urgent legislative proposal on the Tripartite Agreement on Holiday Warning. And then I'm gonna get the papers. They're stuck in this liquor; they're barely free, so much alcohol is on here. This means that if you have wage compensation and this is after the tripartite agreement concluded on 14 January with the wage compensation scheme, which also applied last year, where you would have to share the costs between the employers, the state and the employees, then the employees would also have to pay their share. And employees could then choose to pay for one holiday day or, if they had time off for the benefit, spend one of the days off for which they were then paid. And if they had not, they would have to take one day off without income. That was what was in force in the spring, and that is what has been agreed between the parties to the agreement, and that is quite fine. We in the Danish People's Party can support this. However, I have a question which I hope the Minister may already be able to answer here from the platform. I am a little unsure about that, because it applies to the period from 14 January to 7 February. It's the first 21 days. If employees have spent one holiday day during that period, can they be required to use one new holiday day during the same period? It says a little bit about it, but I'm not quite sure if I've understood it correctly, and that's in §3, paragraph 3. 4, in the draft law, which states: "The beneficiary may not be required to pay more than five days' leave, etc. pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, 1-3. Earned holiday, time off, other saved leave in the employment relationship and unpaid leave paid after 17 January 2021 during the compensation period are included in the statement after the first paragraph.• Then I interpret it as such that if you have spent 1 day there, you cannot be required to spend 1 new day here before 7 February. Perhaps the Minister could explain that, because I am not quite sure that I have understood it correctly. It matters when you interpret it in the company or in the union. Should the employee then just pay 1 extra day, if you have it is such a little unsolved. It may well be that I have If the scheme is extended and you yourself plan to take one day off, does it count so that you cannot be required to take one new holiday day or a day off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161759	There are no brief comments. I'm gonna have to ask, sir. Bent Bøgsted about to drink off. Bent Bøgsted The President does a lot to get some exercise. If I had reached the other end of the hall, I would have had a little more exercise). Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161856	Thank you very much. When we come out on the other side of the corona crisis, we should be able to say that we have done a great deal from a political point of view to preserve businesses and, therefore, jobs. This bill is just an attempt. This is the result of a tripartite agreement, and the draft law reintroduces and extends a known system which has proved effective. Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161928	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126161949	Today we can again thank the many, many employees who are members of the trade unions and the employers who are members of the employers' associations for having created such a robust and flexible model that one is willing to go in and give and take in the negotiations, so that together we end up having a balanced solution which also provides a social model that enables us to adapt on a fair basis to a reality that is constantly changing. After all, the tripartite negotiations constitute a series of examples of the extreme importance of employees in this country being a member of the trade unions and employers being a member of the employers' organizations, so that the two parties can reach legitimate agreements which are supported in the hinterland. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162044	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162102	Thank you. I want to get involved in Glee Club. I think it is a fine agreement that has been made and it is also justified. As has been said, this is a way of giving and taking, and I think it is fair that you contribute a holiday day when you have been repatriated without having to work. The only thing I hope for is that nobody cheats with the scheme or with the previous arrangements, so that there are people who have actually worked and thus lose a holiday day that they actually had a right and a need for. I do not think there will be much of that kind of thing either, but we have heard examples of people who cheat on repatriations by receiving compensation, but let their staff work anyway. Of course, we don't like that. But otherwise there's no problem with this. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162201	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Well, then, I'd like to welcome Mr. Knox. Naser Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162228	Thank you. Constraints and associated aid packages will probably never get used to, because it is on a very sad occasion that we are again here to deal urgently with a legislative proposal. It is a draft law on holiday warning to implement the tripartite agreement on the extension of the compensation scheme. The ravages of the Corona crisis have once again made it necessary to extend the restrictions in Denmark. Although the infection rates are going the right way, various mutations are deeply worrying. Denmark is still in a health crisis of dimensions, but our companies are also so severely pressured. Many Danes fear for their jobs, and that requires action. And that is why it is good that the government and the social partners have been able to agree on an extension of the wage compensation scheme, because the aid packages need to keep up with the restrictions. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the extension of the wage compensation scheme, which is why we also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162337	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162354	We do not, of course, object to the further implementation of a tripartite agreement. I think I would just like to address this by saying that everyone is contributing and that everyone costs and so on. I think that in this management of the Corona crisis there has been a greater distinction between private and public employees than I do with public employees who have been sent home and who do not carry out any tasks but are still receiving full pay. I think that as a society, when we look back on it, we should have taken a different approach and made sure that everyone had contributed to this, in a different way than the way it is happening now. This is then a tripartite agreement, but it is just when people keep talking about it by saying that everyone has to contribute and that it is going to hurt everyone, that I have to say: yes, it is true in private. But I fear a little that when young people look at how we have handled it in here and have to assess whether they want to be self-employed and they have to assess whether they want to work in private or whether they have to take a job in public, it will seem far more attractive to get a job in public because of the way we have handled this. I'd like to raise a warning flag there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162456	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. Would you mind sprinkling? Lars Boje Mathisen You bet.) I see no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, and that is why it is now the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162522	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their comments. And I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks for once again having an urgent debate on a legislative proposal in this very, very important area. Unfortunately, as several of you have said, we are still in a very special situation with a continuing high pressure of infection and a significant spread of the new and more contagious covid-19 variant from Britain, which is certainly worrying. This has meant that the government has extended the existing restrictions, and this also means, of course, that together we must continue to spread the large safety net under the Danish companies and employees. That is why we also concluded a tripartite agreement on 10 December 2020, which is why we want the wage compensation scheme to continue as long as the stricter national restrictions apply. Therefore, on 14 January 2021, the Government and the social partners have concluded an agreement to extend the December agreement re-establishing the compensation scheme. At the same time, we have agreed to reinstate demands for holiday days etc., and this is the part of the new tripartite agreement to which this bill translates and guarantees legal basis. The draft law will enable a company covered by the wage compensation scheme to notify an employee of the holding of one holiday day, etc. with at least one day's notice per day's notice; pay compensation period. During the period when they tightened restrictions at present. the employee will have to contribute one holiday day, etc. until 7 February. for the first 21 calendar days of wage compensation for which the scheme is extended. If the restrictions are further extended, the employee shall contribute 1 holiday day per day. compensation period equal to 28 calendar days. The employee may be required to contribute a maximum of five holiday days etc. during the period covered by the scheme. This means that the wage compensation scheme is more similar to the scheme which ran over the spring and summer of last year, where employees would have to spend up to five holiday days, etc. as a counterweight to wage compensation. It must be seen in the light of the fact that it is essential that both state, employer and employee contribute to the scheme, which has helped to hold hands under thousands of jobs and prevent many companies from having to turn the key in this serious health crisis where parts of society are closed down. It is this time voluntary that the employer will make use of the proposed scheme. It is important that we do everything we can to get this infection under control so that we can get our labour market and our economy back on track. Once again, as Minister for Employment, I am particularly pleased that the social partners take responsibility and show a social spirit when the crisis hits Danish society and that once again it has been possible for the parties to reach agreement on an agreement. The bill will come into force as soon as possible and will apply until the stricter restrictions cease. I would like to thank you for the debate in the Chamber today and look forward to the forthcoming debate in committee. And now I just saw sir. Bent Bøgsted down there, so before I finally finish, I'll just as well, because that's what I promised Mr. Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted did so by nodding him on the platform before trying to answer the question put during his rapporteur's speech. And that is correctly understood, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has read that it is provided in the agreement that already announced or agreed holidays etc., which are fixed before 17 January, i.e. after the extension period, are held as planned and are included in the days which the employee under this agreement is obliged to bear. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162930	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126162933	Well, that's good. Then I get it right. This means that if, during the period up to 7 February, an employee has completed one holiday day or the day off, he cannot be charged another during that period. The next question is: what is the situation if it is further extended after 7 February? For there we go into the winter holiday, where many people have planned and perhaps agreed that they should take a winter holiday, and if they are working in a company that applies for compensation for wages during the period during which it overlaps with the winter holiday, can they be charged one more day in addition to the holiday or time off they have taken in connection with the winter holiday? And can it also apply if it continues? Hopefully it doesn't go to Easter days, where some people also take some holiday days? Will they also be included in the calculations if you do so? And we should just remember that the issue is for companies that seek compensation for wages... not all other companies. It is also a little unclear, I think. However, it has not yet been calculated what is happening if we continue after 7 February, which we hope will not be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163049	Sir. Bent Bøgsted is quite right in saying that it has not yet been taken into account whether the current restrictions apply after 7 February and to what extent, if so, wage compensation could continue after 7 February. What is true, on the other hand, and what has been agreed with the parties, is that it is a maximum of five holiday days, etc., that an employee can contribute as a party to the compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163118	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163200	It is a motion for a resolution which is based on a citizen's proposal. The debate is open. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163212	Thank you for the floor. I think there is reason to start by thanking the organisers who have put forward the citizens' proposal and, of course, the many citizens who have signed it. With the signature, they have actually been instrumental in rejecting the stunned drive of madness that we have recently seen several examples of, and potentially endangering all of us when we travel in traffic. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament who, on behalf of the promoters, have tabled the motion for a resolution. Crazy carism is, of course, an issue that we have turned around a few times in this Chamber, but it is at least as important this time as the other times we have discussed it. The government's position is clear: We cannot and will not tolerate ruthless madness in Denmark. These are basic selfish and life-threatening behaviours on the part of the drivers of madness. And I am fully in line with the authors of the motion for a resolution as regards the fact that we need stricter penalties. The current level of punishment for the most serious cases of driving madness is those where innocent people are robbed of their lives and their limbs are far too low. It is neither fair to the victims nor to their survivors. That is why I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the penalty should be significantly tightened up, and that is why I have also tabled a legislative proposal which we will be dealing with in the Chamber later today, where, among other things, we are dealing with. calls for stricter penalties for manslaughter in the course of madness driving by 150 per cent. This means that, in future, some 31⁄2 years of imprisonment will be punished in what we call normal cases, that is. cases typically presented to the courts. And in the case of negligent manslaughter in the case of driving madness, it is assumed that the penalty will be substantially more than five years in prison. We are also proposing a doubling of the penalty for serious bodily damage caused by the driving of madness. This means that, in future, prisons between 4 months and 1 year will be punished in normal cases. However, we do not envisage introducing minimum penalties, as proposed in the motion for a resolution. The use of minimum penalties is something that we have discussed in this Chamber several times in the past. My position, as it has been in the past, is that we should allow the courts to determine the penalty in the specific cases. It is their task, they are the ones who are presented with the full picture, and they are the ones who ensure the full disclosure of the matter. It is therefore reasonable that the courts should be able to include not only aggravating circumstances but also mitigating circumstances, for example. in relation to the perpetrator's personal circumstances or other matters which may be relevant. If there are exceptional circumstances, the courts must be able to derogate from the level of penalties, and this also applies to cases of driving madness. Because, no matter how much we would like to, we cannot anticipate all future cases, and perhaps this is particularly true in this area of negligent offences. Having said that, however, as politicians, we must, of course, ensure that the courts have the right framework for setting the penalty, and with the levels of punishment that I mentioned before, we make clear to the courts what we think the penalties should be, and we have good experience of this with the courts. I also believe that the most important thing for the citizens who have tabled this proposal and those who have signed it is that in future the penalties will be measured at quite a different level than they are today at a level that reflects the severity of the crimes. I believe that this is guaranteed by the draft law, which we will be discussing later today and which, incidentally, has very, very broad support in the Danish Parliament. In fact, here we are proposing to introduce a more stringent level of punishment for negligent manslaughter than that proposed in the motion for a resolution, but at the same time we are not depriving the courts of their discretion. I believe that, with the government's bill, we are sending out a clear signal to the drivers of madness that we will not tolerate their behaviour in traffic and that they will be met with very serious sanctions, sanctions which reflect the seriousness of the crime, and I believe, in fact, that with the bill we will ensure not only stricter penalties but also fairer penalties than if we had introduced the minimum penalties proposed in the proposal. Against this background, the government cannot support the resolution, but I would again like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution and sign for the great political support that has been patterned over the last few years and the efforts that have been made through the course of negotiations that we have had to land in a place where we have now ended up being broadly opposed to driving madness. So thank you for that and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163718	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163722	Thank you, President. Of course, I find it a pity that the Minister rejects the idea of minimum penalties. It is not, of course, an unknown phenomenon for Danish criminal law or for special laws. On the one hand, we have the death clause in the criminal code, and, as far as I remember, we are applying minimum penalties in various arms laws, and on the other hand we are depriving the courts of their discretion. Can it not be said that when you get in your car very often in an affected state you are driving, where there may be pedestrians or other road users who are so to speak soft in traffic, and are driving at crazy speeds, so as to give up the opportunity to invoke apologetic circumstances? At any rate, I think it has to be said that the level of punishment we have today calls in completely new ways to look at things. That's why I can't quite understand why the Minister of Justice is so sloppy just saying that minimum penalties are a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163835	We need to decouple these two discussions. One discussion is about the level of punishment today in connection with carnage of madness. We are going to raise this • quite significantly also more than what the proposers are proposing here so that it can be said that we are going to be doing well. The second discussion is a matter of principle and is about whether we should operate with minimum penalties. After memory, we have three places in the penal code at the moment where we still have minimum sentences: it is killing; it is, as was mentioned, arms cases; and so, as far as I remember, it is killing the majesty or something like that. I may remember wrong, but there are three places. However, developments over time have consistently been such that the number of cases with minimum penalties has been decreasing, and here we can go back to the Danish Law, where most of the provisions actually had minimum penalties. But over time, and over the last 30 years too, the number of cases with minimum penalties has been taken off, and that is, of course, because we have said that we want to provide a criminal framework and a level of punishment, but we think that it is good in a rule of law that the courts are in and make a concrete assessment of the situation that they are being presented with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163938	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126163939	Yes, but it is not the case that it is not the court that still has to decide whether the defendant is guilty. That element will, of course, be completely unchanged. What is the question is whether, at the time of the vote, when the defendants have been found guilty of killing another person by using his car, there must be a minimum. I don't see how with the tools we have in the toolbox that there should be something more effective to ensure a harder punishment. Because I do not assume that the Minister is in agreement with, for example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. to add these homicide cases to the exception provided for in Article 38 of the Criminal Code that the entire sentence should not be served.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126164019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126164020	It is absolutely right that, in any event, it will be the judgement of the courts that decides the issue of guilt. What remains is the question of minimum penalties. And I think it is simply a good principle that we say what the penalty is and we say what the political expectation is, so how much we think this relationship is reprehensible from the point of view of society, but that it is up to the courts to determine whether there are circumstances here that make it more severe or whether there are circumstances that make it easier to punish it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126164054	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. Now we're starting the negotiations, and that's Mr. Knox. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126164123	Thank you for that, President. On a summer day in 2004, a 22-year-old runs completely gambling through Brønshøj. In an overtaking, he knocks three kids up on the fridge and across the car. Two of the kids are dying. The third is a pregnant woman, a young woman in the seventh month. First her boyfriend, who is one of the two, dies, and later at night her unborn child, Axel, dies too. Last summer, a young man in Bogense drives on Funen gambling in a Porsche, looks down at the speedometer, knocks up a car, three innocent doors. And then there's the case at Langebro, where a crazy driver kills a cop in a civilian. Unfortunately, these examples are not the only ones, but they are deeply distressing and unhappy. That's why I want to thank those of you who have been in charge of this citizens' proposal. Now we're in a weird time. I am sure you would have been here today if we had dealt with the matter quite openly, but I am sure that you will keep up and that many others who have lost loved ones who have either been mutilated or have died because of driving madness will also come with you at home. That is why I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative on this citizens' proposal. Thank you to Thomas Wolf, who is the main proposer. Thanks to Jonas Lambeck. Thanks to Jesper Beelke Jensen. Thanks to Rasmus Riber. Thanks to Tim Teddy Worm Jørgensen. Thank you to Christian Balle Jørgensen. And thanks to Mathias Rønn Laursen. Your initiative, your work, has certainly helped to influence the work we have done in this Parliament, and the agreement that has now been reached on a bill that significantly tightens up the penalties for driving madness, but which is also putting a lot of pressure on the leasing market and taking cars from people, so that hopefully they will be unable to drive madness again, or at least lose the desire for it before it goes completely wrong and gets fatal. It is very, very worrying and desperate that we are witnessing this completely insane madness. The proposal here lays down minimum penalties in relation to section 241 of the Criminal Code on negligent manslaughter. The Minister of Justice has explained the bill we will be discussing later. Today, it is the case that Article 241 lays down a penalty of at least a normal penalty of between 60 days and 6 months. Later we will have to deal with a bill that will increase it very significantly, so it is now called 3 years and 4 months to 3 years and 9 months. And the second part of the motion for a resolution here, the citizens' motion, is about section 249 about careless bodily injury. It is the case that the normal penalty today is between 60 days and 6 months, and that is where we propose that it should be between 4 months and 1 year. In fact, we set out to increase penalties in line with what is in the proposal here, but not as minimum penalties. And it will actually also be the case that the normal punishment will be higher. Does this mean that we are now sharpening the penalties for driving madness so that we can confiscate the cars, that we can take action against the leasing industry, that we can take the driving licence from people, etc. No, I'm afraid it doesn't. However, we must have the hope and the assumption that it will at least send out a very clear signal and hopefully also that some will think twice about it and that it will hopefully also be the case that some people will actually both come in to cage it, get their car taken and get a proper punishment before next time they get into a car and drive completely crazy and kill innocent people. So great thanks and appreciation to those of you who have put a lot of work into making this citizen's proposal. We do not support this, also for the reasons given by the Minister of Justice in relation to minimum penalties, but the work has certainly had an impact, and I am pleased that after this we can gather together to deal with a legislative proposal that significantly strengthens the penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126164613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126164636	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is, after all, a concrete citizens' proposal which calls for the punishment to be tightened up in cases where insane drivers kill or damage fellow drivers with their crazy driving. First of all, I would like to thank the group of citizens who took the initiative on this citizens' proposal, worked seriously on it and made sure that an extremely important debate about it has been held and that it is now being brought into the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you. There is no doubt whatsoever that the problem of insanity drivers is something that we must take very seriously. We must do this as a society, and that is why we must, of course, do it here in the Assembly. Too many people are killed in traffic in general, but unfortunately we see that part of this scary and horrible statistics on road accidents relate to people who have been killed by a driver of madness. That is why it is extremely important that we establish clear and consistent rules that we will not accept this as a society. We will not accept ruthless behavior in traffic that costs other people their lives and ability. We in the Left believe that higher penalties help to show the drivers of madness that there is zero tolerance for ruthless behaviour. In far too many cases we have seen that the perpetrators have received far too short penalties for their very serious actions. It is by no means fair or fair to the relatives whose lives have been destroyed after the death of a family member. That is why I am also extremely pleased with the broad political agreement that we reached in December, in which virtually all parties in the Folketing, with few exceptions, are proposing a significant increase in penalties against drivers of madness. It is the sledgehammer that we find here, and this applies both to driving, which leads to negligent manslaughter, but also to driving, where there is a deliberate danger to the lives and mobility of others and a number of other similar conditions. I therefore hope that the citizens behind this very good citizen's proposal can see themselves and their thoughts in both the political agreement reached in December, but also in the legislative proposals that we are going to deal with here today, L 141, and later also in the tightening of the traffic law. Since we have already reached a political agreement, from which there will then be a subsequent legal procedure, a strengthening of the laws, we as a society will be doing away with the ruthless drivers, and thus we will be responding to this citizens' proposal. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. In conclusion, however, I would like to express my very great appreciation for the work behind this serious citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126164952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126165015	Thank you, sir. President. Is the President really Excellency too? I don't know. President No. Oh. Whatever the case, it is an excellent motion for a resolution which runs very well with the ideas of the Danish People's Party on how best to combat what is called insanity carism. In recent years, unfortunately, newspapers have repeatedly been able to tell of how drivers are not rarely driven by foreign origins through large cities, be it Frederiksberg, whether Odense or here in Copenhagen or in the rest of the country for that matter, in a way that has long since been accepted as the risk of causing the greatest damage, namely to take another person's life. Needless to say, this is unacceptable. What is less superfluous is that the current state of law is also unacceptable. The consequence of taking another person's life in a headless manner is quite simply too weak, both for the sake of the victims and there I am thinking both of those who lose their lives and those who otherwise are physically affected when a driver of madness strikes, but certainly also for the sake of those who are left with heavy needs, or if the whole life may have changed because their spouse or child or other close, a friend, has been disabled or otherwise destroyed his life. So many fates are being hit by these unscrupulous people. And even if it can never bring back the lost, even though it can never restore the ability, it can have a degree of satisfaction to know that the perpetrator is being severely punished, that he, for it is most often a male, meets with society's toughest punishment. On the other hand, it is clear that one must also consider that there will be preventive elements in having harsher penalties both in general but also individually, so that whoever may choose to get into his car in an affected condition in a way that may be caused by affection or grief or other chooses to get into the car in an affected state, chooses to drive gambling at high speed • perhaps a place where there are sidewalks and where children are walking home from school, where mothers are walking with their child in the hand perhaps on the way to the supermarket, the everyday situations that we all know may even think of an extra time. That is why, contrary to what we heard from the Minister for Justice before, we believe that this is one of the exceptional cases where minimum penalties actually make sense. I fully agree that this raises a legal political dilemma, and it is quite right that, when we are faced with this dilemma ourselves, we should come to the side of the Minister of Justice and think that the three areas in which we now have minimum penalties, as the Minister of Justice mentions, should not be more. It is hoped that the movement will continue from 1683, and towards today. But we in the Danish People's Party, when we look inwards, come to the opposite consideration: if we are both to ensure justice for those who are directly affected, those who are indirectly affected, and must be able to say with certainty that the punishment is such that the perpetrator may think twice about it, then minimum penalties are the right thing to do. That is why we can support this proposal. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126165425	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126165521	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for the many people who have signed the citizens' proposal. I understand it's reached 50,000 signatures. I have read about Jonas, one of those who has taken the initiative on the citizens' proposal. He's lost a friend as a result of driving madness. My thoughts therefore go to all those who have lost as a result of insanity carism. It's unbearable when crazy driving goes beyond innocent people. It is also tragic that the calamity of very specific people must bear fruit for change, but I am sure that these very stories have contributed to a broad political agreement on harder action. Families and acquaintances of the victims of insanity must know that their tragedies are in our memory. And now, with a broad agreement, we are being hard-pressed against insanity motorism. The only question is: why has this not happened in the past? Nevertheless, it is good that action is now taking place. This also means that the Radical Left will vote against the citizen's proposal itself, among other things. Because the tightening up itself is the result of the next bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126165700	There are no brief remarks to Mr. Kristian Hegaard. That is why we can move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126165732	Thank you. Speed killer, and when you choose to sit behind the wheel and drive affected or run gambling or drive too fast, you have to know with yourself that it can go wrong, it can go really wrong, and in the extremes you can end up taking someone else's life. That is why it is also important for society to take consistent action and punish harshly when driving madness. And although it cannot, of course, take the pain of families and friends who lose a relative, we have an obligation to ensure that the punishment does not come out of proportion with the atrocity. That is precisely why I also think it is appropriate to tighten up the penalties for driving madness, and that is why I have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal, which has collected more than 50,000 signatures and obtained a reading here in the Danish Parliament. This shows that there is also a great desire among the population for more action in this area. That is why I am also very pleased that the government has taken up the matter and made a proposal for tougher penalties and a definition of driving madness and an opportunity to confiscate the cars so that we can hopefully prevent future driving madness. We will, of course, be voting in favour of this, which is why I believe that the authors of the motion for a resolution have actually managed to press for debate and have succeeded in doing so, so much congratulations. If, however, we cannot support the specific proposal here today, it will act, among other things. on the introduction of minimum penalties. Here in the SF, we think it is a bad idea not to leave an estimate to the judges so that they can take into account aggravating or mitigating circumstances, if there are any, and therefore we cannot really back this proposal, and that is why we are going to say no to this proposal. However, I think there is good reason to commend the authors of the motion for a resolution for having taken this up. This has been an absolutely necessary debate and I am pleased that we are going to adopt a proposal containing stricter penalties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126165945	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Thank you for the end. We can move on to sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170008	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we have full understanding of the citizens who are behind this citizens' proposal. It is extremely frustrating to witness the far too many cases of carnage and the tragic consequences it has. Quite ordinary people, who in the middle of everyday life are just in the wrong place at the wrong time, are being hit. I would like, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, to send our thoughts to the families who have been affected by the madness drivers' disregard for their fellow human beings. In the Enhedslisten we think it is appropriate to tighten the rules, not least in relation to the consequences for the crazy fools who make the car a killing machine when they race through the city at 150 km/h. or more. It is essential for us to send a signal to people in general and, in particular, to potential drivers of madness that the hammer falls hard when driving recklessly and causing killing and mutilation of innocent people. This was also the reason why Enhedslisten entered into an agreement in December which is intended precisely to tighten up the rules.• An agreement supported by Enhedslisten and an agreement that we are satisfied with, especially because the agreement also focuses on reinforcing preventive action against driving madness in the form of better opportunities to reveal strawmen by leasing and better opportunities for leasing, rental and share car companies to secure against people who have previously been convicted of driving madness. Although Enhedslisten, as I started by saying, fully understands the citizens' intentions with the citizens' proposal, Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. The Enhedslisten does not support minimum penalties, as proposed by the citizens' proposal, but at the same time we want to allow the agreement now reached time to work before we will consider whether further initiatives are needed in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170209	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170228	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking both the proposers and the signatories of this citizens' proposal. In the Conservative People's Party, we fully share the idea of stopping the car of madness in Denmark. We fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that there must be tougher reductions on drivers of madness. We obviously have a serious problem with insanity drivers in Denmark. There have been so many examples in recent years. We have heard too many stories about blunt criminals driving completely unhindered in the streets. After all, it endangers the lives of innocent people, and we must never accept that. Crazy drivers have tragically killed innocent people. We cannot do that again, but the least we can do is do all we can to ensure that this does not happen again, and the few people who should not have understood the message must be severely punished. As I mentioned in my introduction, we in the Conservative People's Party share the full intention of the proposers to stop the carnage of madness. That is why, back in December 2020, we also concluded an agreement with the government, which will help to combat insane carnage. Among other things, it has to be done. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think it is a good agreement that we have reached with the government and a broad majority in the Folketing. The Conservative People's Party therefore fully shares the intentions behind this citizens' proposal, but unfortunately cannot support it. We support the bill that we will deal with a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170413	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170416	I would just like to say to the viewers, as a consumer, that we can vote in favour of both the motion for a resolution and the proposal for a directive. I would like to know why Mr. Naser Khader and the Conservatives don't do it. Because if you share the intention of the resolution, which is that there should be minimum penalties, then you simply make sure that these murderers do so, they come a long time behind lockdown, why not do as we do in the Danish People's Party and vote for both?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170448	We have a reservation about the minimum penalty. This is not something we want to use in all cases. We must leave it to the courts to assess it in the case of insanity drivers. When you read the bill, which we will be debating a little later, you can also see that we are going to set the penalty a great deal higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170509	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170511	But that is something we know from other delicts in the penal code. So are you Conservatives also in order to remove the minimum penalty for example. Killing as we know it in section 237?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170524	No, we won't. This is appropriate in relation to killings, but we should not do so in relation to all other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170530	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170551	Crazy driving is a growing problem. Drivers who drive gambling create insecurity and endanger the lives and health of innocent people. It has to be stopped. That is why New Citizens backs up the fact that driving madness is being punished much harder than it is today. The citizens' proposal B 108 on stricter penalties for drivers of madness who kill has been initiated in August 2020, that is, before the agreement on driving madness was concluded with the support of New Citizens in December 2020. At the heart of the citizens' proposal is the desire to ensure justice for the relatives and safety of the traffic by punishing cases of madness motorism harder. With the agreement, which we will deal with in part later today, the wishes of the citizens' proposal are met and more. In the future, driving madness will come closer to being punished at the level of violence and killing when unspoken Danes are mowed down onto streets and roads. The agreement tightens the penalty for negligent manslaughter committed in connection with driving madness by 150 per cent, and the penalty for negligent bodily injury committed in connection with driving madness is increased by 100 per cent. The penalties, for example, mean that, in the case of madness driving, which is currently being punished by imprisonment for 16-18 months, will, as a starting point, be punishable by imprisonment from 3 years to 4 months to 3 years and 9 months. That is, as it sounds, more than what the citizen's request for a minimum sentence of three years' imprisonment entails. The penalty for deliberately endangering the lives or mobility of others in driving madness, etc. In the agreement we have reached, 50% will be sharpened and 50% will also be added to the penalty for violating the criminal code's provisions on the driving of vehicles. We are very pleased with the agreement that has been reached and we are also looking forward to being able to deal with it later. For us, it is absolutely crucial that we use drastic and tougher means to get rid of this. The next step is, of course, to ensure that, on the basis of the severest penalties, we also ensure that immigrants without Danish citizenship can be expelled for driving madness without exception. That must be the logical consequence of the increased penalties. New citizens regard the citizens' proposal as contained in and carried out by the December agreement against madness. The agreement that we will be discussing in a moment goes even further, as I said. Of course, the proposers could not foresee this because they tabled the proposal at the time, and so our lack of support for this citizens' proposal does not indicate a lack of awareness of the problem, but simply that we would rather go further than what lies in the citizens' proposal here. We thank the citizens who tabled the citizens' proposal and those who supported it with their signature. You have been an important part of the vast majority of the population who saw that the legislation did not reflect the seriousness of the deeds, and I am glad that it will be amended later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170914	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170918	Yeah, and that wasn't really my intention, because I thought we'd look the same on this. However, I understand that Mrs Pernille Vermund's justification for voting against this resolution is that it is already contained in the agreement that we then made in December and will be dealing with shortly. But does it contain anything about minimum penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126170936	No, it does not, but it contains a standard level of punishment higher than the minimum penalties laid down in the proposal here, and we are going to vote yellow on this because we will not say no to it. But vice versa, recognizing that we are about to legalise something that goes further, it seems a little mysterious to have to sit down and press 'yes' to a citizen's proposal that does not go as far as we would really like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171002	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171004	No, it makes sense, because when you have a minimum sentence, the courts cannot impose a lower penalty. However, what we have adopted by increasing the penalties for the general provisions does not prevent the courts from judging in specific cases much lower than what the minimum penalty is. So the raising of the penalty does not mean that the sentences also go all the way up where the penalty is. There are no delicts in the penal code where the average penalty is anywhere near the level of punishment. That's why it makes sense, just as we do in section 237 on manslaughter, real manslaughter in goose eyes, that you have a minimum sentence of 5 years and that you can then judge up to life. Why don't New Citizens want this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171043	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171046	For two reasons: on the one hand, in the agreement we have also moved the level of normal punishment; on the other hand, we see in this area that although it will probably be few cases, there may be a risk by a father who brains off with his dying child in the back seat and will hit a pedestrian, or it may be a mother or someone else. In cases where traffic is going to run ruthlessly because there is some purpose that is so serious, we do not like the idea that an innocent mother, father or someone else is going to spend 3 years in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171126	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171137	The debate is open. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171158	Thank you for that, President. In fact, we have spent quite a lot of time in the debate here on the citizens' proposal, because, as several speakers have said, the draft law translates into the political agreement that we made at the end of 2020, which is precisely the intention of the citizens' proposal. I do not need to repeat the horrible examples of insanity carism and what that means for those who suffer and who, as I have already mentioned in my own speech, have been mentioned, we are therefore making the penalties considerably more severe, also in relation to the two provisions contained in the citizens' proposal that we have just considered. This, together with the other elements of that agreement, also means, in relation to what is happening in the territory of the Minister of Transport in relation to leasing vehicles, etc., that we are now going to quote Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen will pull out the big hammer. It is both necessary and timely, and that is why we are not only supporting this bill, but we are actually very happy that we have been able to put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171309	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171331	Thank you for that, President. After all, the draft law we are discussing here helps to implement the agreement against madness that a broad majority of Parliament's parties entered into in December. I would like to start by stating that we in the Left are very pleased that we could gather a broad majority across the parties of the Folketing to put an end to this unacceptable behaviour, which is at issue here. This is an issue that I myself have been interested in and concerned with as transport rapporteur for many years, but also in my capacity as Vice-President of the Road Safety Commission. In the Left, we have been proposing for a long time that we need to hit harder here, and the same thought has been in virtually all other parties. There is no doubt that a car is a fantastic great good for our society; it is an indispensable good, but if you use a car incorrectly, it can be turned into a deadly weapon that can kill and mutilate other people, and that is exactly what we are talking about here in relation to the drivers of madness. Unfortunately, for many years we have seen time and again how ruthless driving has created insecurity and insecurity in traffic, and in the worst case it has cost human lives. Not least here in the metropolitan area, where madness driving can often be related to gangs, we have seen an increase in this unacceptable behaviour. It seems almost as if crazy driving has become part of a sick code of honour in certain circles, and that is, of course, something we have to do completely with and where we have to mark that we will not accept it. It is important that the bill here tightens up the penalties for negligent manslaughter in traffic, negligently significant bodily damage, harassment, and when crazy drivers deliberately cause harm to the lives or mobility of others in connection with traffic offences. Last but not least, we're also getting the punishment for getaway drivers. Most recently we have experienced a tragedy at Frederiksberg, here in the metropolitan area, where a drug-induced madness driver drove up on the sidewalk and hit a mother and her 5-year-old daughter. The mother was injured while the daughter lost her life. This is by no means something we can or must accept, and that is exactly what we are showing with the bill here, where we are really using the sledgehammer. Two other positive and important elements of the bill are that we now also define in the criminal code and in the traffic code what crazy driving really is. That's the kind of thing we've been talking about crazy driving. But what is it? Now it is clearly defined. And it's driving when you're riding over 2.0, that's when you're hammering drunk and completely unable to drive a vehicle. That's when you do very, very serious speed violations, for example when you drive over 200 km/h. outside urban development it could be on a motorway or it is when you drive over 100 km/h, while the infringement is 100 per cent. of the permissible speed, e.g. When you drive 100 miles an hour. In urban development. It is now defined and we think this is very important and positive. Along with a number of other measures and legislative changes, we will now come to the Road Traffic Act a little later on. I have no doubt that with this action we will be getting rid of madness carism. We get the impression that we do not find ourselves in it as a society. I am sure that it will have a powerful preventive effect, and the group of drivers, which is a major nuisance and creates insecurity among other drivers and movements, is now being told that this is not going to work at all. And with these reasons, the Left can warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171742	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171746	There is no doubt that driving madness is a major and dangerous problem in Denmark, and we can support virtually everything in this bill. There is one element that I have remarked with amazement that the Left also supports and has never spoken against when we have discussed it in this Chamber. This is the point: not only must the driver of madness have a severe punishment, but also the person who owns the car, regardless of whether that person has behaved irresponsibly in any way or not, and it is going to put an obstacle to many good things in this society. That is, for example, the case. This is about the fact that you can borrow a car via GoMore from another person who has a car in excess. Most cars stand for most of the hours of the day, so if you could borrow it during the period when the car is standing still, it is thus a good use of resources. But if you are going to lend your car to someone who turns out to be driving too fast, you can simply risk losing your car regardless of whether it costs $100,000 or not. or 1 million kr. Is that particularly wise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171850	There is no doubt, and this is the clear message from the National Police Commissioner, that if we really want to stop driving madness, and we want to do so, we need to resort to the confiscation of vehicles. It is also stated in the political agreement that, as a starting point, there must therefore be the issuing of an order, which is why it can be imagined that there are some very special cases in which this should not be done. That is precisely what we need to drill more at a different time than today, because everything about confiscation has nothing to do with this bill. We are going to talk about this when we consider the proposal to amend the traffic law in relation to insanity motorism. There we will be drilling it out more, including in committee work. However, as a starting point, confiscation is a necessary tool if we want to let the sledgehammer fall, and we need to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171936	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126171938	Both the legislative proposals, both what we are dealing with here and the confiscation that will come later, are part of the agreement that has been put forward for this debate. We can support the things that lie in these tightenings of the law, but we think the confiscation part itself is something very, very strange. Now I understand on the Left that it is said that this is the starting point for confiscation at that time. Does this mean that if you have borrowed your car via GoMore, you should not necessarily have it confiscated if the person who borrows the car drives madness?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172012	Well, the point of view isn't something I'm making up. That is in the political agreement. And when we're about to deal with the next bill on insanity motorism, we're gonna get it drilled closer out. But as a starting point it is confiscation, no matter what vehicle it is. I would like to make it clear that it is not the case that you will unwittingly drive over 200 km/h. It's not like you're just going to run at 1 per thousand above 2.0. Therefore, the starting point is confiscation. So we need to get the drill closer, if there are any exceptions. A lot has also been written about this in the legislative notes to the next bill on traffic law. In fact, many pages have been written. So we're gonna talk about that. But as a starting point, we need to confiscate vehicles in order to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. It's gonna get drunk by thanks for that. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172117	We in the Danish People's Party welcome the proposal here today and, as others have mentioned, it translates into the agreement that we reached at Christiansborg before Christmas. That's good. For the reasons that I mentioned in the previous debate, I am pleased that we are substantially tightening up the penalty for negligent manslaughter committed in connection with driving madness by 150 per cent. This is a marked increase compared to today, also in relation to what the government played out with. And we're happy about that. That is what happens when you sit around the table listening to each other's good arguments and finding a good compromise. It ended up with a fine formulation, which now also tightens the rules, compared to when people drive the consciousness affected in cars where they use drugs. Finally, we also got the impression that flight carism is now also being treated in a special way and is being subject to increased criminal liability. This is good, both for the unfortunate people who may be affected by the consequences of carnage, but also in relation to the preventive element of knowing that you are doing this, you will get a severe punishment. Unfortunately, it was around the round table, despite the fact that we bent on, not all areas where we came through. We have discussed minimum penalties in the past, but also the issue of immediate sentences and detention were things that we had to put aside and hope for better times to get through. For us, it seems natural that when we commit the kind of atrocities that we are talking about here, and which unfortunately we do not often read about or see in the media, we must be judged immediately. Nor should you be able to go home and have fun with the family or rather the gang members, or whoever you're having fun with. You have to be in custody. We would have liked to see in the Danish People's Party that even harder work had been done. But this is going. It's gonna be more inconvenient to be the ones who are committing these crazy acts, and that's good. It is good for the rule of law, it is good for the victims, and hopefully it is also good for the number of insanity drivers to decrease. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172404	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments. There's a new package of wet napkins right here. Morten Messerschmidt Well, they're used up. That's fine. You should have bought up on wet napkins, I see. I do not want the transfer of germs to a radical on conscience). Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172442	Thank you very much for that, President. When the car was invented, it was quite a change in our mobility as it was rolled out in the population for decades. But just as smart, fast and strong a car is, just as dangerous is it's deadly. Therefore, we have speed limits around the Danish landscape. There is very clear signage and it is not by chance defined what speed limits there are. That's because it's dangerous if you cross those borders very dangerous for innocent people. Unfortunately, we have seen some tragic examples of this. Especially in the memory is the tragedy from Langebro in the summer of 2019, when a police officer who was not at work died as a result of possible insanity motorism. It is in the memory of many, but there are more examples than that. And there is no consideration to take to people who choose to run gambling nothing! For one chooses to press the speedometer up to over 200 km/h., one chooses to deliberately expose other people to great danger • innocent people. If you are a racer, you must stick to Formula 1 on TV 3+ or buy yourself a few hours on a go-kart track. This cannot and must not be done in public spaces among innocent people. It doesn't when Kevin Magnussen drives. Now someone might ask: But how does it relate to radical and aggravated punishments? This is not something that we reject in advance, because for us it depends on whether there is any scientific evidence as to whether it works. In the Ministry of Justice's research on the importance of the penalty last May, pages 3 and 4 read: "Most studies indicate that the severity of the penalty has a zero effect. An exception to this is the severity of the penalty when it comes to infringements of the traffic law. Here the best studies indicate that stricter sanctions reduce the risk of recurrence. ▪ That is why we support the bill and welcome the broad agreement behind it, and then there is one more thing in the bill on extending the circle of persons entitled to a survivor's allowance, which we also welcome, according to our previous discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172757	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126172801	Thank you. Then we reached the government's proposal to tighten up the penalties, and there are a lot of areas that get up with this package, which a broad majority is behind. It is not every day that we see punishments of 150 per cent, 100 per cent. and 50%. But I think we have all seen the need to bring better balance into this area where the penalties have generally been very low. When negligent manslaughter gives 16-18 months, it sounds to me very little, especially if you've been driving crazy at the same time, then it seems unfairly low. We have seen some ugly cases recently; some of them have been referred to in this Chamber today. And I think that if you are the relatives who have lost a family member, it is a very poor patch on the wound if that is the case that the penalty is unfairly low. One must know with oneself that if one drives in a hasty way or drives too fast or is being harassed, he simply must have realized the risk. So do I believe this is gonna stop crazy driving? No, I guess it doesn't in itself. But I do not think that should be an argument for raising the penalty here today; in fact, I think that today is about the victims. On the other hand, there are other measures in the government package that I believe can help prevent people from running rotten. In fact, I think that the possibility of confiscating cars may be some of the things that put some of these types out of service. I also believe that the fact that we are giving leasing companies a better chance of avoiding hiring out to the wrong ones may mean something, that they get access to new types of information, I think they can help close some of the gaps that make these types today continue; when they lose one leased car, they just move on to another. When we start taking the cars, I think that some of these types at some point, hopefully when the car runs out of money, and then the madness stops. We support this in the SF, although it is not the proposal we are debating here today. But, of course, we also support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173038	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the SF rapporteur, so the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. We're just gonna have to get a little booze off. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173057	Thank you. At best, carnage creates insecurity. At worst, it has terrible consequences for the lives and limbs of unsuspecting people. We have seen too many heartbreaking stories about this in the media. This is, of course, both unacceptable and untenable, and there is a need to tighten up and respond to the flagrant disregard for the interests of other people. Those people who choose to turn their car into a deadly weapon by pressing the accelerator down in densely populated areas, I and Enhedslisten have little left over. In the Enhedslisten, we want action to be taken against the problem. For us, it is not about punishing these people for the sake of punishment, but about ensuring that they are cut off more of the opportunity to get behind the wheel of a car again. Against this background, Enhedslisten also agreed to the agreement on the carnage of madness in December. It was crucial for us that the agreement also focused on enhanced preventive action against driving madness in the form of better opportunities to expose strawmen by leasing and better opportunities for leasing, rental and sharing companies to secure against people who have previously been convicted of driving madness. As part of the agreement, stricter penalties were also imposed in connection with driving madness, and that is the part of the agreement that we are now discussing. And on that basis, the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173226	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Naser Khader, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173243	I am glad that today we are taking a major step in the fight against carnage. Unfortunately, in Denmark we have some stout criminals who behave so recklessly and unacceptable that they choose to drive madness. The driving of madness puts innocent people at serious risk. The seriousness must and must be reflected more in the punishment of the perpetrators than it is today. The need to do something about the problem of insanity carism that we have in Denmark, there can be no two opinions about. In a deeply tragic way, several innocent people have lost their lives to insanity drivers. As politicians, we have an obligation to take action against this so that it does not happen again. I believe that we are taking a step in the right direction today. Caring for madness must be stopped and the fight against anti-social criminals who put themselves above society is a priority. We owe it to the victims and their relatives that the perpetrators will receive a significant penalty which is proportionate to the seriousness of the crime committed. Therefore, we in the Conservative People's Party are also pleased that the government and a broad majority in the Folketing have agreed to tighten the level of penalties for violation of section 241 of the Criminal Code. 2, under particularly aggravating circumstances. This will give victims and relatives a stronger sense of justice, but it also means that criminals will be prevented from committing new crimes for a longer period of time. In addition, the circle of those who are initially entitled to compensation is extended. We in the Conservative People's Party think this is appropriate. For example, parents of adult children living outside the home will now also be part of the circle of persons entitled to compensation. To receive compensation can never heal the wounds caused to the relatives, but it must be seen as the recognition by society of the psychic pain they have been inflicted on them. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173510	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173525	The draft law we are discussing today is the implementation of the agreement on driving madness, which we concluded before Christmas. The driving of madness is an increasing problem that we must tackle. There are road users who are gambling, creating insecurity and endangering the lives and health of innocent people. It has to be stopped. That is why we in New Citizens are delighted that with this agreement, which we are implementing part of today, madness is being punished much harder than it is now. Crazy drivers must have confiscated their cars, they must be locked up and, if they are foreigners, they must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. Today we are discussing those parts of the agreement which require changes to the criminal code, and I would like to read out the concrete reinforcements, because, from the perspective of the new citizens, we have gone much further than the starting point of the agreement, and we are pleased about that. The level of punishment for violations of the criminal code article on manslaughter in particularly aggravating circumstances is being tightened by 150 per cent. in relation to the applicable level of penalties. The penalty provided for in this provision shall be increased from 8 to 10 years. The penalty for violation of the criminal code's article on serious bodily injury in particularly aggravating circumstances is increased by 100 per cent. Penalty for breach of Article 252 of the Criminal Code 1, by deliberately endangering the lives or mobility of others in connection with traffic offences, is increased by 50%. Penalty for breach of Article 253 of the Criminal Code 2 on flight from a road accident, some of which have been added to significant personal injury, is increased by 50 per cent. in relation to the current level of penalties. The penalty for those who are obstructing the enforcement of the second car by the police is increased, so that the penalty is set as a starting point for unconditional imprisonment for 20 days. And then we extend the circle of people who are, as a rule, entitled to the reimbursement of survivors. It is extended to include siblings, adults, children living outside the home and parents of children living outside the home. In other words, the bill contains significant punishments for a number of crimes relating to driving madness, and it is an important step on the way to a safer and safer society to set foot against those who, with ruthless and hasty driving, endanger the lives of innocent people. The next step is to ensure that foreigners who are convicted as part of their gang-related activity or in any other context of madness driving are expelled. In new citizens, we believe that foreigners convicted of crime must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. That is why, in the course of the negotiations, we have stressed that the increased penalties for driving madness must, of course, also have consequences for foreigners, and I am pleased that the Minister of Justice will shortly come forward with a bill to ensure that foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence for driving madness can be expelled. We look forward to it. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and the Government for their willingness to come to us on this very important point, namely the strengthening of the law on foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173913	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126173927	A car, as the rapporteur of the Left said, can become a dangerous weapon if it is dealt with completely recklessly, and that makes drivers of madness. They run at such high speeds and so hasty that other people have to jump for their lives if they are fortunate enough to discover that they are coming and otherwise people risk being run down and maimed or killed. It's almost like taking a gun and shooting randomly around it. Sometimes it hits, sometimes it doesn't. The same is true of drivers of madness: Sometimes things go wrong and a person dies or a person is maimed. That is why we very, very much agree that this is an extremely serious crime, and we very much agree with the punishments that lie here at between 50 and 150 per cent. for various infringements. We will vote in favour of this bill. Then some will ask: Well, then why weren't you in the deal about this? It is because it also contains another element which will be dealt with later in another legislative proposal and which is that you must also be able to confiscate the car, regardless of whether the driver owns the car too quickly or whether it is another person who owns the car. This therefore poses a number of problems for a number of traders and also for private individuals who would like to share their car with other private individuals. We could not agree to that part of the agreement. We were therefore forced to stand outside the agreement. However, if the agreement alone had meant what is in the proposal we are debating here, then we would also have been in the agreement, which is why we can also be happy to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174111	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174116	Thank you for that, and thank you for supporting this bill, even if you are not part of the overall agreement. I regret that I am now going to move a little beyond what is the subject of the draft law here, but the rapporteur himself is also talking about this, and that is precisely the issue of the confiscation of the car. It is my impression that in the time of the then bourgeois government, too, we have worked harder to deal with insanity. Just this question has been blocked, so we can only pass this bill now and have not made this political agreement years ago. I understand the controversy about going in and confiscating a third man's property. On the other hand, it has to be said that this is one of the essential elements for action and for preventive action. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is also confident that the market, as such, with some of the companies and others who are using the schemes, will be able to meet that challenge too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174222	Well, you can make systems that make the owner of a car, for example. borrows his car out through GoMore, by GoMore gets the expense if the borrower of the car drives the crazy drive and gets the car confiscated. But that risk would then have to be uncovered by GoMore, which means that GoMore will have to have a higher fee or a higher payment for using GoMore's services, which can help prevent the spread of these car sharing schemes. There will be a very high additional cost to cover the risk to the person lending his car and the risk to be covered either by the person himself or by the service he uses to lend his car. And this can prevent the development of sharing car schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174315	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174318	But it is now quite a central element of the agreement that has been reached, and the assessments are that it is absolutely essential to be able to make the preventive effect as well, that if you drive a car that you have either leased or borrowed or borrowed in a sharing car scheme, you get that car taken, and then you feel a very, very hard consequence. Because the case today is that those driving crazy are laughing in the face when the police stop them. They don't care about the fines they get and they don't care about the penalty because they just keep driving in their car. So it is an essential element and therefore also a task to get it solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174359	I think it could be solved in other ways. One could, for example: produce a list of persons who had previously been taken for driving madness. And those who might then want to borrow a car out for example. GoMore can look at the list us see if those who borrow here are some who have been driving crazy earlier, and so it doesn't have to be crazy driving either. It can also be said that these are just three serious speeding offences within a period which one simply thinks is too much. It would also be possible to release the person on the list, and then you would be responsible for lending to someone on the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174438	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then all the rapporteurs have spoken, so now it is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174456	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your very broad support. It has been said in various ways, but, I think, very well several times, that we have seen several examples of how wrong things can be when insane drivers press down the accelerator without the thought of the innocent people they can hit on their way. And that is why there is reason to stress as strongly as possible that we will not tolerate this: these drivers are terrorising our roads, creating insecurity with their irresponsible behaviour, and it must be stopped. That is why I am also extremely pleased to be here at the first reading of this bill. The draft law, as was mentioned, is, after all, the implementation of the political agreement concluded by the government in December with a large number of parties in the Folketing: the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party and the New Citizens' Party. All the parties that I had to greet and say would lean over the negotiating table and help make this better: make sure that the starting point that the government put forward was even better, so what we have here today is as good as it actually is. With the political agreement that exists and with the legislative proposal that we have today, the most serious cases of driving madness are being severely reduced. Not only do we owe this to the victims, but we owe it to their survivors as well: that a severe punishment should be imposed which reflects the gravity of the crime committed. I would just like to take this opportunity to thank you once again for the broad political support that has been given by the Folketing. We are sending a clear signal to those who may be tempted to drive madness or those who may be driving madness. We'll keep an eye on those we say not to them, and we'll hit hard if that actually happens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174708	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174713	Thank you for that and also thank you for your cooperation on behalf of the new citizens. One of the things that we have emphasised in the negotiations on the agreement was that we should ensure that the foreigners convicted of these crimes are also expelled and that a case such as the terrible case at Frederiksberg we heard about is indeed included. And it's a little special because it's not somebody who drives on a road where there's a normal speed limit, but you drive across four lanes and you're really drug affected. But can the Minister of Justice confirm two things: paragraph 1, that after this legal procedure we will also have an increase in the expulsion of criminals who commit these crimes, and paragraph 2, that a case such as that at Frederiksberg does not suddenly end between the chairs because we have not covered it well enough in the comments to the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174807	First of all, it is quite true that we are going to make proposals to amend the rules of the Aliens Act, which means that foreigners who are sentenced to unconditional liberty for violating the provisions of negligent manslaughter or negligently significant body damage in particularly aggravating circumstances, that is to say, what we mentioned earlier, § 241, second sentence, § 249, second sentence, will be able to be expelled from Denmark regardless of the length and duration of the sentence of liberty and regardless of the duration of the stay of the alien in Denmark. So that is right in relation to the legislative proposal we are presenting in accordance with the agreement that has been made. It is a proposal which is, moreover, next to the agreement and which, among other things, is. has made it possible that Enhedslisten has also been able to see himself in the agreement that we have made. In relation to the second question, care must always be taken to judge cases which are being judged in the courts. But all other things being equal, negligent manslaughter, which is committed under particularly aggravating circumstances, will also be the driving of madness according to the new definition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174914	Thank you for that and there are no further follow-up comments to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174933	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126174957	Thank you. The Corona crisis has filled a great deal in the last year and we are still away in the middle of the crisis, which is in full bloom. It has gone relatively well to deal with it, because we in Denmark have been good at all following the instructions that come from the authorities. This also means that we are one of the countries that has come through most gently in terms of health, number of people infected and number of deaths. However, we are also, in fact, one of the countries that has been most sympathetic to the economic consequences of the Corona crisis. This is not least due to the fact that we have used a very, very strong community to hold hands with employees and companies. And we have also done it in a way where the money was going to work. It has not always been fast enough, but nevertheless, if you look at the figures from bankruptcies and unemployment and other things, you have actually managed to get through the crisis relatively well so far. This also means, of course, that when you linger large packages of help over the counter if I may use the direct expression · then it tempts weak souls to see if it could not be exciting whether you could usurp something at the expense of the community. And if it's gonna go relatively fast, and it's gonna have to, if it's gonna have an effect, then there are some things in relation to that administration in order to be able to apply for these funds. Even if it encounters criticism and frustration in terms of being bothered and heavy, it could probably have been even more troublesome, bureaucratic and heavy if we had secured a much, much stronger control over these aid packages. In order to meet this and that is also true in relation to the start of the crisis, where people could be tempted to steal protective equipment, alcohol, now there is plenty of hand alcohol, also in this room, but we were actually at a time last year when alcohol was a scarce resource. So we made an emergency law, where we tightened the penalty very significantly for crime in relation to corona. We also made a sunset clause, as we did in all the other urgent legislation on the corona crisis, so this legislation should expire on 1 March. And the law has worked. This has meant some very harsh sentences, for example. to a 57-year-old who was found guilty of fraud for more than 1.6 million. kr. It is immediately for many Danes a high amount, but in such criminal circles it is not quite a staggering amount. So he was sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for 3 years and 6 months and received an additional fine of 2.85 million. kr. I should say that is a very, very harsh punishment for stealing 1.6 million. kr., and the penalty is extremely harsh compared to other types of comparable crime. And that's because this has been an attempt to usurp it in relation to the state I described before. There are a number of similar examples of the hammer falling very hard on people who have cheated and tried to usurp funds at the expense of the Community. The crisis is not over, as everyone in here knows, and therefore there will be a need for aid packages, even after 1 March, and therefore there is also a need to extend this legislation. And that's what this bill is about, so it doesn't expire on 1 March of this year, but is set to expire on 1 January 2022. Of course, the Social Democratic Party supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126175332	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126175351	Thank you for that, President. Not long ago, we have been debating draft law L 110, which is about repealing a revision clause to the same rules that we are actually debating here today, namely the marked increase in the penalty for crime in the context of the covid-19 epidemic. At that time we were hoping that at this stage we would be well into vaccinations and would be at rocket speed on our way to a Denmark without a corona epidemic. However, the future was not quite as we predicted at the time: the vaccinations have not been delivered at the same rate as we expected and had been promised, nor has it gone quite as well with infection detection as we could expect, yes, even the hard hit mink owners' compensation has only just been settled. It is therefore naive to think that we will be past the corona epidemic in just over a month's time when the sunset clause expires on 1 March. Therefore, the rules on increased punishment for corona-related crime should also apply a little longer. As the Socialist rapporteur, Jeppe Bruus, has also said, the cuts have worked. The National Police report that 30 sentences have been handed down until November last year, and the police have received even more reports currently under investigation. The police have also closed 39 websites that have been designed to cheat people. And then the authorities have deported 11 foreigners convicted of corona crime, and several cases are under way. I am delighted that it was the rapporteur for the Left who, almost a year ago, proposed stricter penalties for these people, cynical people who abuse the Corona crisis to commit crime and enrich themselves. The rules have worked during the epidemic and they must, of course, apply until the epidemic is over. That is why the Left is voting in favour of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126175557	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126175618	Thank you, President. We all had hopes that it would pass quickly, that a vaccine would come quickly, that we would quickly contain the pandemic, and so on, and even if we are doing well, we cannot say that we are over it. That is why it makes sense to extend the penalties that apply to those who want to go beyond the Community and, as the Socialist rapporteur says, to defraud the aid packages or whatever they may be. It is absolutely crucial that, while we show community and generosity, as we try, we also send out a clear signal that those who go beyond the community and thus sort of gamble with the lives and safety of others and extend the time within which we come out of this corona period are also being severely punished. That is why we have no objection to extending the sunset clause until 1 January 2022, but with the addition that if things were to happen quickly, where we suddenly gain access to more vaccine than what the EU's dubious procurement strategy has made possible for us, or, in other words, suddenly a situation arises where it does not prove to be necessary, we would, of course, like the government to call for negotiations and we could have the sun set a little earlier, so to speak, in the legal sense, well notice. We hope that the Minister, who is in a deep conversation with the Enhedslisten, will never know what comes out of it or that somebody is doing it for him. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126175826	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126175849	Thank you. Denmark is in a health crisis, not a crime crisis. It is the rate of infection that is high, not the number of crimes. It is the mutations that are dangerous, not the crime that has fallen as a result of the health crisis. Today it is the number of contacts that has increased, not crime. Fortunately, the vaccines are being injected into the citizens as they should; it is not the long fingers of the thieves that get them. At present the English mutation is gaining ground; theft of hand alcohol has been almost nonexistent. I know and the Radical Left knows what crisis we think should be dealt with and which does not pose a problem. The bill was made when a very few thefts of sprit were heard of deeply reprehensible thefts, no doubt about it, but some of them did not turn out to have taken place at all. But there are just some who never show community mind, some who exploit situations or other people's condition to commit crime. That is deeply unacceptable, no doubt. Because the criminals never take the weekend off for Christmas or the corona crisis. Today, however, the law is useless, because it is a condition for tightening the penalty that the protective device is a scarce resource. It's not alcohol and lucky for it. When the bill was discussed, there were 14 reports of hospital theft. Most were about a single booze in a toilet... perhaps by a nurse on the way home after a hard and long shift. The largest catch had been 5 litres, and they had even been returned to them when the thief was caught. So that is not what caused us to lack protective equipment, and that is why we find it difficult to see how we should double out of it. The Radical Left is confident that, in the light of the specific situation we are in, the courts can assess what should be aggravating and what should not be. As politicians, we should not play judges. The Radical Left is in exchange for the part that deals with fraud with aid packages, which are largely based on faith and legislative declarations in order to reduce bureaucracy. And if, in this way, we give the citizens an outstretched hand in applying for the aid packages, we must also expect the opposite direction. So if we concentrated the law on it, it would be fine. But first of all, let us act on the fact that we have a health crisis, not a crime crisis. That is why the Radical Left does not support this extension of the law either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180212	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180216	Thank you. We had a debate at the time, and we can see that the law has worked, also in relation to the part supported by the Radical Left, namely to make considerably more severe penalties for tampering with these aid packages, which are, of course, what has held hands under Danish jobs and Danish employees. And now the Radical Left will not extend the law because they are opposed to being penalised in relation to a scarce resource. Now one cannot be punished any longer for stealing alcohol if it is not a scarce resource. But we cannot imagine the other situations in which we could stand. Now, however, the law still works away from the part supported by the Radical Left: punishing those who are fucking with the aid package economy, and then I find it hard to understand why we are then voting against this. If the Radical Left were to gain a majority in favour of this view, it would end here on 1 March, even if we were actually to continue to pay for aid packages, that is to say in relation to the part that the Radical Left would then support an increased penalty in relation to. So I don't quite understand the logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180319	There I have to say that if the Radical Left had a majority, there would be a law that was only about fraud with aid packages, and we would have extended and supported that. So that is what would be the fact if the Radical Left had a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180333	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180334	So here's a classic example of the best being the worst enemy of the good. So, if you cannot have a law without it here with protective equipment, you will not be voting in favour of the bill, even if you really agree with what is the main point of the bill, namely what works from now on and for the rest of the year, that is to say that you punish those who fuck with aid packages. Isn't that the way it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180354-2	No, this law is basically based on a mistrust that judges can assess what is aggravating in the specific situation, and the Radical Left has full confidence that the judges can assess this. And if we had had a majority alone or with other parties, there would have been a law on fraud involving aid packages, which is a law we would support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180415	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180439	After all, Denmark is still in a complex and completely unpredictable epidemic, and the assessment is that the further development of the epidemic, and hence also the timescale for getting rid of it, is somewhat uncertain. Well, we've started deploying vaccines, and there's light at the end of the tunnel, but given that we're still in the middle of the pandemic, it makes sense to extend the measures we launched with L 157 last year. Unfortunately, I think it is still necessary to ensure that criminals who take advantage of the covid-19 pandemic to commit offences are severely prosecuted. In a way, I agree with my radical fellow rapporteur that the most successful thing in the law has clearly been the increased punishment for misuse of the aid packages. We have seen quite a considerable amount of cases in this area, and it has at least proved its worth. It's a good thing we put it in. When I support the bill anyway, it's because no one with 100 percent certainty can say how this is going to develop. A year ago, we were in a situation of shortage in which protective equipment was sought after, and no one knows whether we are going to experience a situation in the future. I do not think that now that we again lack protective equipment, so it is actually good enough to keep the paragraph, and it can only be used if there is an extreme lack of equipment. So, contrary to my radical colleague, I am pleased that we are agreeing that we still have the opportunities in this legislation. We can therefore support the proposal to postpone the sunset clause until 1 January 2022. Finally, however, I should like to make a comment, and this is one of my usual little hogs, namely criminal justice. I note, of course, that the Directorate for Criminal Services has written a hearing answer, which I think they rarely make a legislative proposal, and there they say that they think this is going to cost criminal justice money, and that is probably the clearest call one can make, that one needs money and perhaps cannot keep it here within the framework one currently has. That is why I would also like to make a little effort in committee to ask how we finance this. I see that they estimate that it will cost somewhere between 0 and 30 million. kr., and 30 million. kr. So I would like to call on the Minister of Justice to reserve a pool of money, so that if this is going to have an extraordinary effect on criminal justice, then we have the means to ensure that they can handle it as well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180755	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126180804	Thank you. Since this bill is merely a postponement of the sunset clause in the adopted law, nothing has changed in relation to what Enhedslisten is dealing with the very content of the legislation we are dealing with here. Many of the amendments adopted in the spring are well supported in the Enhedslisten. The importance of sending out a signal that the exploitation of the corona crisis and the theft of protective equipment for their own gain are unsolidarous and anti-social behaviour, which cannot be taken seriously enough away from. It is only solidarity between people that can prevent this crisis from costing even more lives than it has already done. Solidarity and cohesion are a prerequisite for getting out of the crisis, not least for the most disadvantaged and most vulnerable groups in our society. And, as some may recall, we supported large parts of the legislative proposal at first reading in the spring, and we can still support large parts of the elements of the proposal. We continue to support the tightening up of penalties for the organised theft of equipment when it is scarce. We support punishment for abuse of the aid packages, where cynically, because you can score large subsidies from the state, by faith and by laws, it misuses it to get an unjustified gain at the expense of others. However, we voted against the bill at the time, which is why we will be voting against this bill. We did so because the government and the majority chose to bring things with them that they knew we were against, although we actually went in to talk about the original bill with the belief that we should end up supporting it and that there were things that we would normally be against in principle but that we were willing to buy. But it was decided, in addition to the violent extensions of sentences in relation to minor offences, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. So it was decided to use the corona crisis to mark once again its tight line against foreigners. And I think it is quite fair that the government has a strict line on foreign policy. I just don't see what it has to do with punishments for corona crime. We can't see that in the Enhedslisten. Although the government acknowledged that the tightening up of the Aliens Act would actually have very limited practical significance, it chose to do so anyway, which meant that Enhedslisten could not support the bill at the time. I am constantly puzzled by the fact that we choose to focus on foreigners in this draft law, and that is simply what made it impossible for us to support it then, and that is also what makes it impossible for us, of course, to support the legislative proposal now from the government. However, I would like to say to Mr. Jeppe Bruus in relation to the question he posed to my radical colleague Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that you could also turn it around and say that if the government were a little more willing to compromise, you could have split this bill up, and then you would have got Enhedslisten's votes with and thus the widest possible majority. This was not chosen, and we are, by nature, sorry about this in the Enhedslisten, but we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181143	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181201	Thank you, President. When the coronapandemic hit Denmark in earnest, we saw how some criminals tried to exploit the crisis in Denmark to commit corona-related crime... a stunned behavior, which must be an aggravating circumstance. If you choose to commit crime based on or in conjunction with the covid-19, the perpetrator's sympathy for society lies in a very small place. We have seen examples of criminals stealing hand alcohol when the protective equipment was scarce; we have seen people who have tried to cheat on aid packages that are supposed to help our hard-pressed companies take a behavior, I think we all loathe. We are all still deeply aware that, unfortunately, corona is still among us; it has resulted in extended restrictions, aid packages and the like. That is why it makes good sense for us to extend the sharpened penalties for offences based on, or in conjunction with, the covid-19. The position of the Conservative People's Party has not changed since we last adopted stricter penalties for Corona crime. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181318	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. We have just the Conservative rapporteur to spit off here; it is good that we help each other to remember all the new things. But now it is the New Citizens' rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181354	Thank you for the floor. We are still in a serious health crisis, which has also developed into an economic crisis. The epidemic and its consequences affect us all. The Government and the Danish Parliament have taken far-reaching and intrusive action to curb the spread of infection. Businesses and businesses have been closed; children have been sent home from school; we must not meet as usual; and in the country's nursing homes the elderly are more or less isolated with very sparse contact with their relatives. As an arch-citizen, it tears within me when the authorities get so much power over us, and it pains me that Danish companies, despite the country's relatively healthy economy, must bear one too much of the burden of keeping the infection down in my eyes. But it makes me at least as indignant to know that the financial compensation which many honestly deserve and which some companies unfortunately have a shepherd to pay is being abused by malicious fraudsters. For there are, unfortunately, people who are taking advantage of the current crisis situation to commit criminal offences. The comments to the bill show that the authorities are receiving an increasing number of reports of fraud with the aid packages, and in the media we have been able to read about a number of cases in which employers and business owners have seriously tried to defraud the Danes' money. This is totally unacceptable. This bill is a postponement of the sunset clause for the changes in the criminal, judicial and alien law that were introduced in spring 2020 and that we have since seen the effect of. The initiative for the bill came at the time, after the Left Legal Rapporteur, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, alertly drew attention to the gap in legislation and raised the matter in the media. Thank you, Mrs Inger Løjberg, also for that effort. When we dealt with the original draft law at the time, we tabled an amendment in the New Citizens' Party calling for aliens convicted of corona-related crimes to be expelled. If you, as a foreigner, wish to retain your right to reside in Denmark, you must, of course, comply with Danish law. This is common sense, not least at a time like this, when the population is making historic sacrifices to keep the corona infection down, and thanks to good cooperation in the spring, among others. The government and the Left's legal rapporteur succeeded in tightening up the penal framework so that foreigners are now more deported if they are convicted of corona-related crimes. That's good. As long as the epidemic affects our societies and crimes related to the epidemic continue to be committed, there is a need to maintain the increased penalties for corona-related crimes, and therefore, of course, we support the postponement of the sunset clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181650	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181712	Thank you for the floor. On the way up here I noticed that two extra jars have been brought in, they are really nice, and that is a good improvement in the interior design of the Parliamentary Hall. But that is not why I am standing here on the platform; it is because of this bill to extend the sunset clause. This has proved to be a very sensible legislative proposal. There have been many cases of fraud involving the money allocated to corona aid, and since the pandemic is not over yet, I agree with the many comments made by the other supporters of the bill and say that we support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181756	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and that means that the next person to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126181817	As rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I had not noticed the two new jars in the Chamber. In many ways, someone will probably say, there are enough pots in the Chamber, but they are somewhere else. Unfortunately, we are still in the middle of a pandemic. It's not over, and the game is in full swing. It is therefore natural that we should say that the sunset clause that was in connection with the penal provisions that would fall away here shortly is postponed so that we can punish properly and harshly those who commit crime in connection with the covid-19 epidemic. Because we have seen examples of criminals using the corona epidemic in various ways to commit crime. This is particularly true in relation to the aid packages. SØIK has pr. 21 January this year received a large number of suspected fraud notifications for a total amount of approx. 69 million kr. In addition, until mid-January, there have been 36 cases in which the courts have assessed that crime has been committed against or in connection with the corona epidemic. That is why I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, who have taken a broad view of the proposal we are working on today. The suspension of the sunset clause will have the effect of three provisions which will apply until 1 January next year. First of all, it is Article 81d of the Criminal Code on the tightening of penalties for offences based on or in connection with the covid-19 epidemic in Denmark; then it is Article 791d of the Code of Procedure. 1, 2. point (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of point (a) of the first subparagraph of point (a) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of this Article. 6, on the possibility for the police to initiate blockages of websites where infringements are committed against the background of the covid-19 epidemic in Denmark; and finally it is section 22 of the Aliens Act, no. 9, on the expulsion of foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty following the punishment in Article 81d of the Penal Code. On 1 January 2022 the provisions will then automatically be repealed unless the Folketing decides to extend the period of validity, which should only be the case if we still have a pandemic at that time, which we must hope is certainly not the case. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available to answer questions. I understood that the SF already had something that had to be clarified in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182104	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182107	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is of the opinion that it is sensible to make temporary legislation against crime that is non-existent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182121	If you did not know better, you would almost think that it was a leading slash of rhetorical questions that were asked there. I think it is relevant that we say that, when there is an epidemic in Denmark, which is what is the case, we also guard ourselves by criminal law. Some of what has been pointed out by a number of people here tends to be sidelined by the Community and the solidarity that we have to show in this difficult situation, and I think that is actually a condition for us to resort to criminal reactions, just as in these days we are going to tighten up the restrictions on entry and the response that we have to those who violate such rules and who are also violating solidarity as we do. I am now in the privileged position that, unlike when you usually have to answer questions, I do not have a watch, so I can just continue. Fourth Vice-President No, there are 10 seconds left, and now the clock works, I can see).
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182220	Thank you. There is just a brief follow-up from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182224	I am sorry if the Minister considered this a rhetorical question, because it was a factual question. In fact, it is no longer possible to impose stricter penalties on theft of hand alcohol, because hand alcohol is no longer regarded as a scarce resource and is therefore no longer covered by the law. Similarly, we have not heard of reports or crimes relating to the theft of vaccines, about which much is also written in the bill. That is why we are talking about crime, which is non-existent. So, on this basis, I would like to ask the factual question: does the Minister think that it is sensible to make temporary legislation against non-existent crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182304-2	Now the rapporteur himself mentioned vaccines. If it was the case that someone stole the vaccines that we had to get to vaccinate our elderly, our weak and our vulnerable with, then I think it would actually be quite all right for them to be hit by an extremely severe punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182324	I see that watch is still messing with a little bit of it coming and going a little bit. But I will certainly help Members and the Minister to keep time if you cannot see the clock. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182406	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice. The first speaker is the rapporteur for the questioners. It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who justifies the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182429	Thank you, President. Liberal Alliance personified by Mr. Henrik Dahl and I have asked to have this inquiry debate today because we, probably together with many others, have been shocked by how it has been revealed that there is a destructive culture at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. It is a culture which, for us, is completely incompatible with going on something as fine as the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts and, by the way, completely contrary to the general view of culture, which is in broad parts of Danish society. This was particularly evident as a group of students had to be assumed, but they were anonymous, so it can be difficult to get them personified under the direction of a head of department who has chosen to come forward, choosing, as they call it, to rematerialize a bust of Frederik V. For us, this was not a matter of rematerialization. It was vandalism. That is why it is also clear that such a case has been handed over to the police in order to be persecuted as a vandalism. Nevertheless, there is much to suggest that it is not just a bunch of individual lost types under the leadership of a Balkan department head who has these crazy thoughts. On the contrary, hundreds of so-called artists have subsequently expressed their support for such happenings. This naturally raises the fundamental debate about what on earth has gone wrong at the Academy of Fine Arts. Clearly, management has failed, and that is why we believe that a new form of governance should take place. But also the whole way, the whole spiritual life that is at the academy, is clearly of quite a different character than that, we think most people have an expectation of. Therefore, we would like to take the lead here from the Danish Parliament and ensure that those who have their time at the Academy of Fine Arts, whether as students or as teachers, naturally have an edifying approach to the art. It is not the case that we in the Folketing have to decide what art is to be produced, but the widespread unoriginality, which is that if you really are to be avant-garde, you have to do the same thing as everyone else, namely criticize colonization or the slave trade, is, of course, just unoriginal. And art is now not the destruction, at least not the property of others, not the property of the state. Of course, you could have bothered yourself to buy a bust and throw in the harbor. If so, only the environmental authorities would have been involved in carambola. We might be able to live with that, but the culture that prevails today at the Academy of Fine Arts, we cannot live with it. That is why we want this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182734	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the reasons for the question, and then it is the Minister of Culture for Response. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126182752	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, and thank you for this debate, which we have had over the period in which this matter has, understandably, raised many questions and certainly also concerns. I have the feeling that there is a broad majority in the Folketing who has also expressed this, and the government agrees with that. When the Academy of Fine Arts has been very controversial lately, it is quite right to do so. There have been questions about the former leadership, who has been questioned about how it could come to such an extent that a head of department was involved in vandalism against Frederik V's bust, and its handling has been questioned. These questions have taken focus from the art academy's purpose: to promote art and to create future-oriented, amazing artists. It has not benefited the reputation of the Academy of Fine Arts, which can serve neither employees, students, art nor society. In my view, the main task of the Academy of Fine Arts is to provide education at the highest artistic and professional level, and it is important that the framework and culture are present so that the academy can focus on this task. That is why I shall now go ahead with answering the question that has been put to me, precisely on how I will act to ensure freedom of spirit at the academy and to prevent identity-political extremists from taking power and destroying the professionality and cultural contribution of the academy. I have already taken a number of steps in the light of recent cases, and since today's debate is not the first time that I have explained to the Danish Parliament what I have done and have intended to do about the situation at the Academy of Fine Arts, it may be that my answer here today may also be a repetition of some of the things I have already provided. But for the sake of completeness and for the debate here today, here comes a list. Overall, the status right now is that the vandalism against Frederik V's bust has been reported by the owners of the Academy to the police, and the police continue to investigate the case. The head of department, who stood up and took responsibility for the vandalism, has been expelled from the Academy of Fine Arts. As several of my previous answers to questions from the Danish Parliament have shown, in November I asked the former rector of the Academy for an account of the progress of the bust case. In this connection, I asked the former rector to explain how the challenges include: the identity policy flows within the institution could be resolved. Unfortunately, the statement received by the Ministry did not provide an adequate answer to how the Academy of Fine Arts could move forward after the bust case. In December, the Ministry of Culture concluded a redundancy agreement with the former rector, as there was no agreement on how to solve the problems at the Academy of Fine Arts. The Ministry of Culture is now in the process of finding a new rector, and the Ministry has had a vacancy announcement with a deadline of 20 January this year. It is my hope that the new principal will be able to help give the Academy of Fine Arts the fresh start that is needed. I have therefore also insisted that there should be an independent examination of the academy. We in the Ministry have just received the first sub-report of the independent investigation and expect to receive the overall final report in February. When the final consolidated report is available, I shall, of course, forward it to the Folketing. The study will include an assessment of the extent to which identity policy trends exist and how they can pose a problem for the academy, and then I expect the report to contain some recommendations for organisational measures and changes that can help create the educational and working environment that we want, and which society expects, at the Academy of Fine Arts. As I have said before, vandalism against cultural heritage is something that I think can only be strongly opposed to. The free movement of culture and art must not be at the expense of art and culture which one disagrees with. If you want a different view represented, yes, that view must of course be full, but destroying cultural heritage is to make our ability to learn from our history worse. Freedom of spirit is therefore important, not least in an artistic education. The art must be free and not restricted by certain political attitudes. The Academy of Fine Arts must train the artists of the future, and there must be room at an artistic educational institution for different attitudes about what art is and what it should be in society, what it has been and what we want it to change for the better. But it is and can never be in order that, in the name of art, we commit vandalism against the cultural heritage of all of us. So what will the government and I do further to ensure the freedom of spirit and pluralism, which is important yes, even necessary? I will look at the structures for management and representation. These are ideas that have been advanced in the past, as there are other artistic educational institutions that struggle from time to time to be able to be there, both in the free artistic debate ^ and also give rise to student democracy ^ and in this way be an artistic space, but also as an educational institution with a clear direction. Therefore, this statement and this work will focus not only on the Academy of Fine Arts, but on all the artistic educations of the Ministry of Culture. The introduction of boards of directors is an obvious possibility, but there may also be other measures that you can work with, both with the arm's length tax and with management power. We also need to examine them, and then we need to look at the structures that can ensure that the organisation's decisions are anchored, for example. This one with student involvement. As I informed the cultural rapporteurs last week, I am currently setting up a committee to look broadly at all the artistic training courses and also to highlight the possibility of introducing boards on the courses. I think it would be wrong to look in isolation at the Academy of Fine Arts. Some of the challenges facing the Academy of Fine Arts are also found in other artistic educations, and I believe that the courses can benefit from each other and cooperate even more than they do today. It is important, in my view, that it should not be an emergency legislation or a snapshot solution for a single institution, but that we should look together in this area. There must be an opportunity to involve the various parties and to use the latest knowledge, and above all there must be a thorough involvement, including in the art environment to which the institutions are providing candidates. Therefore, the committee I am setting up will also ensure representation from all relevant parties and environments, and I have asked that the committee complete its work with a report by October at the latest. This gives us a solid and well-informed basis for further reflection on the future management of artistic education. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183536	Thank you. There is now one brief comment for the rapporteurs, and the first one who has asked for it is Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183544	Thank you for answering the question and for indicating that there are real problems. I am glad that, following the heated debate in the press, among other things. Agreed. What we may not entirely agree on is the scale and nature of the problem. That's why I'd like to hear the Minister of Culture relate to it. One thing is that this crazy incident with the Frederik V bust took place, but what does the Minister of Culture think it says about cultural life especially concentrated around the capital, when more than 600, who at least call themselves artists, support such vandalism?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183637	As to whether or not I agree that it has a wider scope than this bust incident, I actually have the approach to this matter that I will look at a management reform of all artistic education, and I also state that I am certainly not blind to the fact that it may also occur where it has not yet come to the public's knowledge that there are conflicts. Some may be such purely organisational, but some may also be artistic, for example. What the questioners refer to as identity policy. I do not think that at this stage we have any basis for saying that this is something that is delimited to a particular geographical area or perhaps even to some named artists, but I have of course also noticed the approach that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions, and I have also received several. What I read behind the words that are written and that may well serve as a defence of what has happened is a concern about the arm's length tax. And as long as it is an arm's length business, I hope that the Folketing will agree that it is important to have, but that vandalism cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183750	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183755	Thank you. If you read the text in the question a little further, it is also about how we ensure a high-quality artistic education, which also has a diversity and a breadth to different expressions and directions. I would like to know how the Minister sees whether there is the right financial framework for a high international level education in Denmark for art.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183820	Thank you very much. It's a job that the government together with, among other things. Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's party has set a new direction for abolishing this priority contribution, which otherwise martified artistic education. Having said that, there is no doubt that there are many new breaks in the arts and that it is important that our educational institutions can keep up with them all the time. I think it is worthwhile, also in this study, to focus on whether the academy which we sometimes also mention in other parts of the educational world is not also drawing too much resources on artistic education. Just as important as being able to do a theoretical analysis of what art you would like to do, it is important that you can play on the instrument you are trained in at the conservatories. It is important that you also as a visual artist actually know your material in order to be able to live on it afterwards and help enrich society with your art.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183922	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126183926	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for recognising the problem. I think we can agree on that quickly. That is how to resolve what may contain a certain debate. I would like to ask you more about how this report has come up with a timetable. How did it come to be in October? I think there is a relatively long time for that. Couldn't you do it a little faster? We can see that it's urgent out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184003	I think it is important to remember that in reality there are two separate tracks that I have set in motion here. One is really fast and focused on the Academy of Fine Arts, because it is where you can say that the vandalism, what cannot be done about, has been given the most extreme expression I have experienced. There is the long work that looks at all degree programmes and is about structure and management and boards and craftsmanship focus, and then there is a short, more intensive course with a special focus on the Academy of Fine Arts. That is why it has been important to me that the post release came out quickly, so that we can quickly restore management power in the form of a new rector, and that at the same time the principal enters the job with an impartial study which looks at what kind of culture it is, what kind of problems it is that may have been reflected in the destruction of the bust at the Academy of Fine Arts, and that study will be available as early as February.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184106	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184109	I am completely opposed to theft, and I am also totally opposed to vandalism, including of state property. But is it not just going too far to start talking about the destruction of cultural heritage? Well, I also have a bust at home by Beethoven, and I think I also have one of H.C. Andersen. I mean, is it cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184136	There are many different opinions on this, and I have also taken note of the discussion about the uniqueness of the bust itself. But what I see is important here is to say that cultural heritage can sometimes also be the interaction of different works. I mean, I don't know if the comparison works, but if you like. Take a cemetery, one can say that every single tombstone, which may even be on a grave that has long been cancelled, may not be unique in itself, but the collection of old tombstones makes it possible to represent something unique. In the same way, I also think that an artistic work that has entered into an artistic process had an important artistic point in the time it was made in ^ regardless of whether it is the original, or whether it is pre-studies, or what it is. So the reason the Academy has chosen to acquire it and exhibit it is probably precisely that it is something that says something about the artistic project at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184243	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184247	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for the very reasonable observations on arm's length. I very much agree that these problems need to be resolved with respect for the arm's length principle. The problem we are talking about is part of a major problem for which I wish there was a Danish word, but it does not, so I use the English: wokeism. It's some kind of wokeism we're dealing with here. I am well aware that the Minister cannot commit other ministries, but how does the Minister feel about the government's overall view of wokeism, in other words both in the field of the Minister of Education and Research? Is this something that the Minister would oppose or wish to promote?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184346	I believe that, at the outset, I must be absolutely sure of what is being done at this stage in other ministerial areas before I can speak on behalf of the entire government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184354	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184357	I would like to start by signing up for the work that the Minister of Culture has set in motion to look at the management structure, also broader than just the Academy of Fine Arts, because it is actually a rather special construction that there is a completely different management structure at the Academy of Fine Arts than at the Academy of Fine Arts and Funen Academy of Fine Arts. What I would like to ask specifically is the Danish People's Party's proposal to make a DR model. That is something that concerns me personally. I am certainly in favour, at least very curious on a board of directors, and I think it can give a principal some to consult, but I am very afraid of the prospect of having politically appointed members on a board of directors. So I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on such a board profile, i.e. whether it is professionalism that needs to be emphasized or whether it is supposed to have politically appointed representatives, just as we have seen with the DR.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184456	Thank you very much. I have not adopted a specific model in advance. That is why I would also like to set up this committee where we can bring together people who are used to putting together boards at educational institutions, people with artistic insights and representatives of the institution, both students and employees, to get something that fits precisely the artistic education programmes. Having said that, however, I would like to say that I myself have a very big focus on the fact that we also get that craftsmanship professional focus into this board work, so we counteract an academyisation of something that is a discipline, a work of art, just like it's called a craftsmanship, it's a work of art; it's something you have to master. I think that is very important. I also think it is very important to bring in the downstream labour market, because we also see that it is often very difficult to feed ourselves as an artist. So it is also important that we dress them to be able to live off their art.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184558	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184600	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister has taken action in this area, because this is an area of concern. It is particularly worrying to us in the Conservative People's Party that some people use such aggressive methods and in many ways flush our cultural heritage with the bathing water or in the port, to put it as it is. We should take action on this, and what concerns us most is how we manage this whole identity policy agenda... some currents that are now. Because it cannot be right that we should have some educational institutions where there may be students who feel insecure by expressing their political views. So I would like to hear the Minister's comments, now that the Minister has mentioned that it might also be possible to look at other artistic educations. I am very concerned that one should not run around in an insecure environment in places where one really should be able to unfold one's creatively high level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184715-2	I see the question as what I intend to do in the meantime to counteract an insecure study environment. To this question, I would like to say that the various events that have taken place in different artistic educational institutions over the last few years have also led to the fact that in the dialogue that the Ministry of Culture has with artistic education, we have put a great deal of emphasis on how to ensure that students have a place to go if they think they see something or experience something that makes them feel that it is not safe to be there and express the artistic attitude they may have. But, of course, we also need to focus on how we can ensure that there is the middle management sparring until we have this committee's work and we can politically take a position on, hopefully, a stronger leadership power, for example. in the form of a board, and thus also an opportunity to have the closer sparring for the day-to-day management.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184816	Thank you, Minister. There's no more short remarks in this round. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. And the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126184847	Thank you, President. History is important because it may well be the subject of debate and disagreement, but yet it is something that binds us together. What one can be proud of is outraged by the other and neither is right nor wrong. What is wrong is if the offended forces his outrage against the proud and renowned, for then what should bind us together across disagreements and disagreements becomes totalitarian. That's why it doesn't work out that in a robe of being an artist totalitarian, you can't understand our story. It's no good using vandalism, destruction, as art, because you call it a rematerialization. This whole idea is fundamentally damaging to our society, but unfortunately it is also an idea that is being widely disseminated. We look around in broad parts of academy, of cultural life, of media life, etc. That's what Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned with a foreign term, an English term, woke an attempt to question the whole way our society is organized. This is what Michelangelo did, as Leonardo da Vinci did, and that is what Bjørn Nørgaard did, but not by destroying and judging other people's understanding of life, art and life; but by provoking others to think new thoughts. There is a clear limit to what is art and what is vandalism. And, of course, vandalism cannot be art and certainly not at our Royal Academy of Fine Arts, no matter how outraged you may be by what has been committed under Frederik V, Christian VIII or Harald Bluetooth. We can discuss that story, but we can't make ourselves masters of what others should think. That is why it is good that the Minister for Culture is now giving us an undertaking that we will rethink the organisation of the whole cultural life, at least the parts that the Minister has mentioned. But we also believe in the Danish People's Party that there should be tighter governance, which is why it will make sense, when you make a board of directors at the Academy of Fine Arts, to deal with the way, for example. The Danish Radio's management is set up. This is precisely where part of the board members are appointed by the political parties, and it is not a breach of the arm's length principle, because it is done with open foreheads. It will not offend or surprise anyone that the person appointed by the Enhedslisten probably has a view different from that of the one appointed by the Danish People's Party. On the contrary, it will enable the debate on culture and art to live and breathe freely, just as it does on Denmark's Radio, where it works smoothly. However, there are other things we should consider if we want to breathe into the smell of identity-political socialism that we are looking at at the Academy of Fine Arts and in broad circles of cultural life. There is reason to ask whether this is perhaps a geographical problem we are experiencing. As you know, unity makes sense, and if, in a lonely world of identity politics, you simply stroll around on Østerbro and sip caffe latte with people who share views with you about colonial times, structural racism, etc., there is not much to argue for perhaps developing new ideas. I found it interesting that the former lecturer at the Academy of Fine Arts, Mr. Christian Schmidt-Rasmussen, called the action at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts a glaring failure on many levels and felt the urge to distance himself from it. It is good and a completely different tone from that which we have heard from the management in Copenhagen. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party believe that it could be good to move the Academy of Fine Arts out of Copenhagen. It could be for Nakskov; it could be for Nykøbing Mors, where there are annual cultural meetings when we do not have corona; it could be for Skagen, where the beautiful light has previously inspired. But out of Copenhagen and being well aired through we think the artists will benefit from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185405	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185409	The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says, on the one hand, that freedom of spirit is being promoted, and, on the other hand, that it was being argued for tighter governance and, just after that, a wording was used to air out after the flaxe of identity policy socialism. Could the rapporteur not explain this to me, who does not quite understand how, on the one hand, one can argue with freedom of spirit and arm's length and, on the other hand, talk about tighter governance, and that one must air out after the flax of identity-political socialism? How are these two things connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185459	Well, I'm talking about the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts when I say you have to air out. It is clear that you can form all the groups and academies and associations and parties and movements you want, where you can sit and cultivate these trivial ideas about colonial times and structural racism, and what else it might be, and as I know Mr. Uffe Elbæk is also very concerned about. I'm not gonna interfere with that at all. There's full freedom of mind. What I'm dealing with is the Academy of Fine Arts, and I'm not assuming that Mr. Uffe Elbæk believes that culture only lives at the Academy of Fine Arts. It would be a very poor and isolated view of culture. So what I am talking about when I talk about tighter governance is, of course, to ensure that there is an edifying culture at the Academy of Fine Arts. And in relation to all the crazy people who run around thinking woke thoughts, and what do I know, and would like to throw statues in the sea and such things, they should be warmly welcome to it, just elsewhere and well to feel their own statues as long as it doesn't pollute of course, and there I assume that Mr. Uffe Elbæk and I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185601	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185603	Of course, when I ask the question, it is because this is also about cultural vision and artistic vision and view of freedom, and until now, at least in this country, we have had freedom of education, that is to say, that we have confidence that the institutions are choosing the right teaching. And if the rapporteur is now saying that we should have an edifying approach to art, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185638	This means that when those 657 people think vandalism is art, it is not edifying. So, you can easily make a statue of Frederik V, which illustrates something other than the greatness that absolute monarchy would like to introduce itself with a drawing, and you can make it in clay; you can put on Frederik V a light green tusk and find it exciting. It's fine for me. You just don't do it at the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185702	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185705	So you just don't do it at the Academy of Fine Arts, okay? Sir. Morten Messerschmidt began by explaining that in relation to our history there was something that one could be proud of or one could be the opposite. And I can easily recognize that. In other words, I am proud of those who opposed the Nazi German occupation of Denmark, unlike the Danish Government. On the other hand, I'm not quite so proud of those who signed up for Free Corps Denmark and something like that. So I can easily recognize that. But what is the reason why Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions this in this context? Well, I don't understand. Is anyone proud of Denmark's role, i.e. the official role of Denmark, during slavery? Is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt proud of Denmark's role during slavery?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185757	Yes, if I am proud of Denmark under Frederik V and Christian V and Christian VI? Yeah. Well, I'm proud of Danish Law. I am proud of the fantastic structure that arose under both Christian IV, but also under Frederik V. I am proud of the gatherings, which were established under Christian VIII. I'm proud of a lot of things through the history of Denmark. I'm not a supporter of slave trade; that goes without saying. But it doesn't mean that the atrocities that may have been committed in certain periods of Danish history from witch burns to those who, like Erik Scavenius, licked the Nazis up and down their backs. But there are plenty of things, both in the 15th, 16th and 17th centuries and up to 1943, of which I am of course proud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185851	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185854	Well, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, what's that for? Well, what's the point of that? What's it gonna do with this discussion? I just don't understand. Well, this was an action and we have said what we think of it; there we agree that has been about slavery. So what are we gonna do with this relativity, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt does, compared to something you're proud of or that someone's proud of something? I guess it's not hard for Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt to say that the part that consists of Denmark's role during slavery is absolutely nothing to be proud of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126185934	It'd be petty, wouldn't it? Because that would be judging the past by seeing it with the glasses of today. If you have to deal with things from then on, you better do something positive in relation to those who wore the world view we have today. However, it is tempting to ask back what my answer Søren Søndergaard's question is for, by saying: What should we use Mr. Søndergaard's question? Søren Søndergaard's question
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190002	The next brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190006	In addition to this larger request from 600 • I have actually read out that it was 900 • artists, the Minister for Culture and the Committee on Culture have also received an open letter from 37 former lecturers and professors at the Academy of Fine Arts, including Bjørn Nørgaard, Simone Aaberg Kærn and other well-known names, which do not necessarily support the action itself or on identity policy, but which really appeal to this case not to be abused to steal the political independence of the Academy of Fine Arts. I would just like to know if the 37 names are also some that would be banned from joining the Academy of Fine Arts if it were the Danish People's Party that would hire people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190056	No, especially sir. After all, Bjørn Nørgaard has undergone a fantastic development from making works that had a majesty insulting character to doing something that is actually nice to look at today, and it would certainly not be excluded that he could sit in the management at the Academy of Fine Arts. I would like to say, however, that if we made that Danish Radio model, then the Radical Left could point to Mr. Bjørn Nørgaard would not have the opportunity to oppose that. So I do not understand the difficult approach to our proposal, because that would ensure that those whom Mrs Zenia Stampe might be in doubt as to whether the Danish People's Party would think the best could nevertheless come in, because Mrs Zenia Stampe would have an opportunity to nominate a candidate such as the one before us. Mr. Bjørn Nørgaard. I almost think that Mr. Knox... Nørgaard has become too conventional for the party that Mrs Stampe is a member of, isn't he?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190151	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190153	But don't impress it at all, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, when an artist like Bjørn Nørgaard says that it is a greater threat to artistic freedom in Denmark when politicians want to interfere in what is going on at the Academy of Fine Arts than some students do a crazy identity policy happening? Don't make that impression on Mr. Morten Messerschmidt?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190219	Well, I would say that it mostly makes a greater impression on what Bjørn Nørgaard thinks about art than what Mrs Zenia Stampe had to tell me about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190230	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190236	Thank you. This is a difficult discussion, because one jumps between the concrete, that is to say an action, and then the more structural, that is, how to organize it. I would actually like to try to put that action aside, because I think it is a discussion for oneself, one can have all sorts of places. I think we should talk about the structure and how we set up an educational institution here. That is why I just have to say, in line with Mrs Zenia Stampe, that freedom of spirit is being talked about, but everything will be decided. That's a little like what I'm actually hearing, sir. Messerschmidt. You can be preoccupied with identity policy, just not at the Academy of Fine Arts. You want to decide who's gonna sit on the board. You want to decide where it should be, because it must not be in Copenhagen at last, because it is too dangerous. So what kind of freedom of mind is that? Is it only the freedom of mind that fits into Mr. Is Morten Messerschmidt's own little universe, or is it real freedom of mind that you really want to discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190325	I do not quite recognize the picture that Denmark's Radio, which is what was mentioned as the basis for the new board composition at the Academy of Fine Arts, should be a place that is clearly in the direction of the Danish People's Party. Well, now I don't know where sir. Uffe Elbæk is currently. Well, he's from the Socialist People's Party, so of course he's moved to the right! I don't think so. That is why I would like to say that this is probably not a genuine concern. When I talk about freedom of spirit, I am talking about it in a broad sense, yes, in a very broad sense, and that, of course, there must be an opportunity to think and do even crazy things in Danish cultural life. I just don't think that's what the Academy of Fine Arts is for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190427	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190429	Now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt does not go to the question mark, that is to say to the matter of freedom of spirit, but continues rather than out of the key; it is an easy way of derailing debates, which I know you often like. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt says that identity policy does not belong at the Academy of Fine Arts. Well, why not if there are students working with it? You could say that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself works a lot with identity policy. What's wrong with that? Well, what's wrong with working with it at the Academy of Fine Arts? Why do you need to decide politically what to do or not do as long as it is within the framework of the law? I mean, where's freedom of mind in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190511	Well, if I said that identity policy doesn't belong at the Academy of Fine Arts, it was definitely a statement. So what I meant is the destructive identity policy, that is, where, by destroying things, you think you are doing art, whatever it is, you throw paint or in any other way cause damage to established works of art that you do not own. One can easily go out to buy a picture of Picasso from the blue period and then paint it in red and then call it a work of art. You can do that. I just think you should buy the painting yourself. And then it is not necessarily the kind of art thinking that the state, or rather the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, must promote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190552	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126190607	Thank you for that, and thank you to colleagues in the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate today. Let me just start by stating that for Social Democracy it is essential that freedom of spirit at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts be guaranteed, just as it is important in all our educational institutions and all our cultural institutions, and identity policy must not define our art education. The art must live free, it must define itself, and therefore it is also vital that we uphold the principle of arm's length, including in our artistic educations. But at the same time, of course, it is clear that we have to interfere when identity policy takes over and freedom of spirit comes under pressure, and that is why I would just like to stress, if anyone is in any doubt at all, that Social Democracy is opposed to politically motivated destruction of cultural heritage, as we have seen, when a bust of Frederik V was destroyed by a head of department at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. We cannot tolerate this kind of thing, and it is, of course, an aggravating fact that such a vandalism is carried out by a head of department who is employed at the academy. This is not compatible with the role of the Academy of Fine Arts as an educational institution. We expect all employees and students, as well as everyone else in our society, to comply with the law and strive to promote the professional level and create a culture of freedom of spirit in the institution. For this reason, the Minister for Culture has also launched an impartial study of the study environment, the teaching and the organizational culture at the Academy for example. to identify the extent to which trends in identity policy pose a problem for the overall purpose of the academy, which is to ensure an education at the highest artistic and professional level for the artists of the future, so that they can influence Danish art and cultural life. That is why we also welcome the debate on the teaching of artistic education, on their study environment and on their institutional culture, which has now arisen in the wake of the action, and I believe that there is a clear need for us to restore confidence that the Academy of Fine Arts continues to contribute to the successful development and development of art. It is therefore also good that the Minister for Culture has launched work to provide a solid basis for decision-making on the reform of the management structure of the Academy of Fine Arts as well as on other artistic educations. The study is intended to identify the management and organizational challenges that exist in education today and to make recommendations for a new organisation and a new governance structure in the future, including how to set up boards on artistic education, and I look forward to continuing all the discussions on a new structure for training when the report from the committee is available. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is also only important to say today that we do not want a society where it is the ideas of identity policy that only govern the development of our educational institutions. We want educational institutions where art can live freely, where it can define itself and where it must be done with respect and based on our cultural history. The action of the bust of Frederik V is entering a political battle to rewrite or write off history, and this is a phenomenon which I honestly believe is a very dangerous path to take. Because if we delete all symbols, if we delete all traces of our common history, how shall we ever learn from our history, how shall we avoid making the mistakes of the past, and how shall we know what it is that has brought us to where we stand today? We must always welcome the debate on what art is and what it should be able to do. Because in time, art will change meaning. All art is created as an expression of its time, either in a physical or in a symbolic sense, but the meaning of art changes as society develops. That is why art is also a mirror of our past, which we can use to learn something about our development as a society, and what has brought us to where we are today, and so it can also be a mirror on and an occasion for a conversation both about our past, but also about our present and our future. For collective memory and collective learning are not hidden in the individual, but it is hidden in society and where the symbols that we look at every day remind us of what it is we come from and how we can shape the future better. Because if we delete all traces from our journey to where we are today, then I'm afraid we're in danger of getting lost, and where are we? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191100	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191105	The rapporteur said thank you for this debate, and it was just before I almost heard it as if the arguments for the debate were supported. Therefore, when the rapporteur says that identity policy must not take over and that freedom of spirit is under pressure, what is the basis for this? I mean, I know what has been in the newspapers, and I know how dramatic the discussion has been around the bust, but is it really true that freedom of spirit is under pressure, for example, at the Academy of Fine Arts or at other of our educational institutions? Do we know that? That was the first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191156	That is why the Minister has set in motion a statement on both the management and the artistic aspects, and how the policy of identity and the currents, which, after all, must be understood from media coverage at the Academy of Fine Arts, have affected freedom of spirit. That is why I am not going to stand here clearly and comment on it until that statement is there. That is why it is good that we have a statement. But I just have to say that with the stories that have been advanced about how things have happened at the Academy of Fine Arts, so yes, I fear that freedom of spirit comes under pressure from identity policy. That is why I think it is good that we should have both the debate and a statement now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191239	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191241	I therefore fully agree that it is a good thing that the Minister has set this study in motion when it comes to how to achieve a better organizational culture and how to achieve a better study environment. Of course, no one should feel that they cannot express their opinions and opinions where they go on education. I think there's a lot of good stuff about it. However, what I am actually asking is the whole debate on identity policy, what we must teach and what we must not teach. So my question is: does the rapporteur think, for example, that it is relevant to discuss and be taught issues such as gender, class and colonial history? Is it relevant, or is it not relevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191331	I think that is extremely relevant. I'd think so. If you are to live up to the purpose of the Academy of Fine Arts, you must also teach it. Where my fear of freedom of spirit coming under pressure is when identity policy takes control of what can be said at all and cannot say what to say, then what I fear is that freedom of spirit will come under pressure if it becomes too unilateral and only with one side of the coin. After all, a good, professional, solid education is about getting all aspects of it clarified and not letting one attitude or one discourse or one flow define how to teach or how a case is presented to the students.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191411	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191414	First of all, I would like to thank you for a very good speech, the content of which I agree with. What I wanted to ask you is something that borders on the speech. It is true that, in addition to the cases that have been well advanced in the media with the rematerialisation of the Frederik V bust, there has also been a fairly extensive coverage in Weekendavisen of a number of highly critical management relationships. It is about the fact that there has been a sticking line, where one could anonymously put employees for violations, they had not intended themselves, and this is about freezing and delimiting. It has been covered at least in two stages, namely in April and November 2020. Could I perhaps have the rapporteur's comment on the wider issue of culture, which is not only related to the Frederik V bust, but also to the issue of culture, for example. sticking line and freezing of colleagues to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191524	It has to be said that there have been some very shameful stories. It is therefore very good that we should have that statement so that we can also take the concrete discussion on a solid basis. But I think that this is precisely the opportunity to say that this is about more than the concrete bust and the concrete action. It is a cultural issue, and cultural issues are also management issues. That is why we also need to link this to a discussion on how we organise and structure the management of not only the Academy of Fine Arts, but also the other artistic educations. Because if there is a problem with culture, if there is a problem with the way the environment is between students and employees at an educational establishment, it is a management responsibility. And there is only one indication that that responsibility has not been met and that there has not been the right framework for how an educational institution should be managed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191625	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191627	It is a well-known fact that you have to be tolerant of anything but intolerance. But there is something that suggests that this and I regret again that I lack a Danish word, but there is no wokeism, this wokeideology, in itself is a repressive and intolerant ideology and that it is part of the problem. I do not expect a quick and complete answer, but what ideas have been put forward by the rapporteur on this kind of highly repressive ideology, for example. At the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191659	As I also answered Mr. Uffe Elbæk, what I think is worrying is if something takes over and becomes so defining for everything that we cannot shed light on every aspect of a matter, of a discussion, or what we are studying now, because there is only one way to see a problem, one way to deal with it, one way to talk about it. The actual flow must be represented, but it must be represented on an equal footing with all other currents, all other discourses, analysis tools, and what we should call it. That's where I quite agree with Mr. Henrik Dahl in that this wokeism is a challenge, because it does not leave room for other views on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191747	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191756	Thank you for the Social Democracy and the rapporteur's comments. I would like to delve a little into the very function that Social Democracy imagines a board should have. What is it in itself that a board should be able to solve in an educational institution such as the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191811	After all, the Minister for Culture has set up a committee to come up with a proposal for the future organisation and governance, so I do not think I will stand here and stand by that. Then that committee would be unnecessary, you might say. I really think it is very good that we should have a solid basis on which to make the necessary decisions. But one can say that the function of a board of directors as a starting point is to be management in this case a rector at the academy and to set the strategic direction, the professional direction for in this case the Academy of Fine Arts, and then there is also financial management and everything else that comes with a board of directors. So, in addition to dealing with this specific challenge that we are now discussing today, I really believe that it would be healthy for artistic education to have a board of directors with different perspectives and competences in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191906	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191908	Should there be politically elected members?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191913	That is one of the things we need to discuss when that committee has their recommendations ready. It will not be my starting point that we should have political representatives on the boards of artistic education. I am simply not sure that is where we find the best skills to be the management of an artistic education. I think we should look elsewhere. Because it is not just a question of a political balance between different directions or views of art; it is also all sorts of other competences that need to be played on a board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191948	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126191954	Thank you. And thank you for a very fine speech from the rapporteur. I certainly agree with a great deal of it. Thank you, too, for taking this seriously, because this is really something that worries me about the fact that the word is suddenly not free anymore; that being able to unfold suddenly becomes limited, because some have a strong conviction about how a given attitude should be expressed and, what to say, be the right attitude, and that if you do not have it, it can be difficult to commit to these courses. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur sees this kind of identity policy conspiracy also taking place in other artistic educational establishments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192054	In any case, I think that the discussion is relevant to the broad area of artistic education, as well as to all our educational institutions. There have also been stories in the media about other educational institutions, and that is also why the government is setting up a structure, and that is why the committee that is now being set up should look at how to create a model across them, so that it is not isolated to the Academy of Fine Arts, but is a discussion we should have about all the artistic educations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192123	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192125	Thank you. What worries me, too, is the timing of this... that you're not gonna come up with anything until sometime in October. This has been known material right, for a very long time back from before last year, but also earlier. So I can be concerned that we have to wait so long and I can be worried that students who feel uncomfortable expressing their own opinions in the educational institutions do not have the free word. So I'd like to speed up the process. Could the rapporteur say where the rapporteur himself is in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192207	In other words, we are now writing the end of January, and with a committee set up in February and submitting a report in October, I think it is actually a reasonable period of time if they are also to have the various aspects of what they are going to be working on clarified, and perhaps especially at a time when holding meetings and other things can be difficult. I think that's realistic. You will always want the change to come faster, but on the other hand there is good reason to be thorough in the work you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192238	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. It would be exactly desirable to prepare for the next rapporteur; that is so fine. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192255	Thank you, Mr President. This is a really important debate. It's about goodness, about the objectivity of our educations... something that should be the basis of any education, including those of the Ministry of Culture. It is therefore also worrying that the management of the Academy of Fine Arts seems to have lost its grip on the raison d'etre: to educate and inform students on a neutral and factual basis, so that the students leave the teaching with a greater professionalism without being disturbed and discoloured by the teacher's ideological attitude. Because that's how it's supposed to be in a free and open society. We do not go to school or take an education to be indoctrinated with the ideology chosen by the teacher. We go to school to be able to master the professional skills that the training provides for its students. Asking questions is good. One-way is bad. We can cultivate all the political and ideological issues that we might like in our leisure time, but that is something we must seek out in our leisure time and not be subjected to as part of the education of higher education. So what are we talking about today? Yes, that is what the government will do to ensure the pressure of freedom of spirit at the Academy of Fine Arts, but I also believe that we can all see that the Academy of Fine Arts is not the only place where something from outside has put free thoughts under pressure. Unlike the ideologies we represent here in the Assembly, liberalism for my own part, conservatism and socialism elsewhere, identity policy stands out by demanding special treatment. It writes off everything that does not fit into a narrow ideological world picture. It is at odds with the rule of law when it invokes the right to vandalize in the service of the good cause. It divides and creates division, and it is undemocratic in its essence. It hurt to see a bust of Frederik V being pushed into the harbor in the autumn, even though it was bad enough in itself. No, what was really worrying was that the thought that legitimizes the action and the vandalisation of our cultural heritage have been allowed to take root in one of our educations. Let me just remind you that there is a one-way link between vandalism of history that emerged from the Academy of Fine Arts in the autumn and the destruction of history that we saw abroad by fundamentalist forces some years ago. It is not an ideology to which we must close our eyes, as has unfortunately happened at the Academy of Fine Arts, and which, fortunately, many of us want to rectify. I am pleased that the government is calling for a discussion of the situation at the Academy of Fine Arts at some point, hopefully quickly. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament rejects any destruction of the cultural heritage, including the vandalism against a bust of Frederik V, which took place with the participation of the head of department in November 2020. The Danish Parliament finds it incompatible with the purpose of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts that employees at the Academy carry out vandalism and notes that the case is being investigated as a vandalism case. The Danish Parliament notes with concern that the former rector has disagreed with the minister on how to deal with the current challenges at the Academy of Fine Arts schools and notes that the cooperation with the former rector has been interrupted. The Danish Parliament also notes that the Minister has subsequently initiated an independent investigation and set up a committee to plan the future organisation. The Danish Parliament invites the government to ensure that the Art Academy's visual arts schools as an educational institution maintain an artistically high level of teaching by among others. to create a competent and professional board at the Art Academy's visual arts schools. • V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192830	Thank you to the rapporteur. This text of adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192835	A great deal has now been said, and a great deal has also been written about this whole matter and the problems that have been at the Academy of Fine Arts. But if we are now to be fair, including to the former rector, Kirsten Langkilde, she has emphasized so much over and over again that the Academy of Fine Arts and now I read a quote directly: Have room for all opinions, but not all actions. This means that, when the director of the Academy of Fine Arts was the principal, a clear indication was made of what is right and what is not right. And what is right is that there are many different views. What I cannot hear from the rapporteur here is whether the rapporteur also thinks that it is okay to discuss colonial history, so it goes without saying; that structural racism or gender differences or gender identities or power relationships in society are being discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126192944	Thank you. That's a very good question from Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Of course it's okay, I'll say. That is why I stress that the position of the Left is that it is okay to ask questions. You have to, and it's not okay to unify. That is where it can be said that the actions that the previous management has not carried out in this context are wrong. That's where a board can help. It's an ordinary way to look at these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193023	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193025	I am absolutely in favour of all our artistic educations being given their own board of directors. Especially if it's a professionally defined and founded board, I'm totally on it. The more independence, the better. But what I have heard in the debate, including from those who have taken the initiative on it, among other things. The Danish People's Party is that you talk about having an edifying approach to art. I do not think it is freedom of spirit. Does the rapporteur have a comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193104	Well, a board must be professionally oriented, and it is not the position of the Left that it should be built up by political people. It must be based on professionalism. It's gonna add something to this educational institution. It really needs to be able to do something to move forward, and that is the whole point of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193125	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193129	Thank you. Someday we should almost have a study group on identity policy in here, because it is as if it is such a fixed size, but what many forget when they mention it is that the whole obsession with national identity, on which certain parties on the right are very hard hit, is also identity policy. But that aside we take it in a study circle. I would like to ask you about this with the very neutral approach that the rapporteur emphasized, that is, that every teacher should meet the student neutrally. How does the rapporteur think he can teach an art academy and be 100 percent neutral? Art is also about politics; art is about materials and about aesthetics; it's about an approach to society; it's about so many things you can't be neutral about. Is it not more important that it is a diversity and not a neutrality that should meet the students?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193218	I would say that if that is what I have said, then I am pleased with the question, because then I will have the opportunity to elaborate on it. The point I made was that you weren't allowed to indoctrinate. Of course, you have the opportunity to make all sorts of different artistic attitudes, but you also have to respect the fact that there are other opinions. That questions can be asked is good. It has to be done. Questions must be asked about everything. It is also important to learn it, and it is bad to unite. That's why I pointed out these two parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193256	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193258	I think it's just an important point that the teachers will always come as who they are. The professors will be who they are and also take all their artistic work with them. It's never going to be neutral. There's just got to be a width. We are always going to fall into levels of discussion in relation to standing and talking about a bust or not a bust, and I think it is something else that we should discuss in here, namely something that is about the structures. If we are to have that diversity and that wealth at the Academy of Fine Arts, are there any particular points that the Left would like to highlight, that is, if we think it is a shortcoming today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193329	What we consider to be lacking is a leadership that can go in and give a constructive counter-play when doubts arise, which has obviously happened in this case. That's just one example. I am one hundred per cent in agreement with the rapporteur on this. This is only one example, and that is why we need to spread it out so that our institutions can still think freely among the teachers. It must, of course, also be present there, while at the same time giving the students freedom and not correcting them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193410	The next brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193415	I'm very reassured when I hear sir. Kim Valentin's rapporteur's speech, as well as the rapporteur's speech by the Social Democrat rapporteur and the Minister's speech. What I just can't understand is why you connect with the Danish People's Party on this issue. Because what we have heard today from the Danish People's Party is quite frank. It has nothing to do with freedom of spirit, diversity of pluralism. It is tough national identity policy and political governance. I simply cannot understand how one can agree on a text for adoption with a party that presents such an anti-democratic position that is contrary to artistic freedom. That's why I'd just like to ask Mr. Kim Valentin to deal with what we have heard from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party today. Mr. Kim Valentin, that we must beat down on any kind of identity policy, that we must move the Academy of Fine Arts to Mors, and that the 600 or 900 artists who signed this petition cannot be employed at the Academy of Fine Arts? Is that something like the Left and Mr. Kim Valentin can back up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193527	I would ask Mrs Zenia Stampe to put some of the questions that have been asked here to the Danish People's Party, because they are the right ones to answer them. What I can say is that what we agree on is the problem and how to solve the problem, many elements can be included, and that is what I am saying here. It can, for example, be done. It is a question of how to put together a board of directors. It is a very important element when it comes to resolving this problem, and I also expressed this in my question to the Social Democrats earlier today, namely that it is one of the areas where we really need to be careful, in other words to have far too much political control over who sits on such a board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193610	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193612	I'm still hearing that there's a pretty big difference between what Mr. Kim Valentin and Dansk Folkeparti believe, also as to how to perceive the problem. Because what I hear the Danish People's Party perceives as the problem is that there is identity policy, that is that it is there at all. There's got to be a hard fight on it every time. And what I'm actually hearing, sir. Kim Valentin says that it should not dominate that there is nothing that must dominate and unite whether it is Marxism, socialism, identity policy, wokeism or whatever. As I hear it, there is a great difference between the pluralistic concept of democracy and the approach to artistic freedom, which is what I see as Mr. Kim Valentin represents, and then there is what we have heard from the Danish People's Party, which is an alignment and totally the opposite of freedom of spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193700	But is it not the struggle always between national conservatism and liberalism that is being expressed here? That's why I'm pointing out exactly what the Left is going to these negotiations with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193718	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193721	Thank you. I have asked for the floor because Mr. Uffe Elbæk was kind enough to quote a statement from the former rector of the Academy of Fine Arts, and what was the essence of the statement was that the Academy of Fine Arts should be marked by pluralism, that was quite clear. But sir... Kim Valentin didn't confirm that what was the problem at the Academy of Fine Arts was alignment? It was very, very violent alignment under a certain view of art, namely this wokeism, which, as I have mentioned, led to the creation of a stick line and to the readiness to violate and to the definition of a number of teachers, some of whom went so far as to protest at the end. So it's ear gas that the art academy was characterized by diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193812	Yes, I would like to confirm that it is certainly the case that alignment is a huge problem, if that is what is going on. That's also why I've pointed it out several times here along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193824	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193830	Well, I guess I'm not so uncomfortable either, if it was sir. Kim Valentin, who was to interpret the text that has been read; but it was made together with the Danish People's Party. Sir. Kim Valentin himself has heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stand here and say that you can make a bust of Frederik V wrapped in a tushy skirt. That is quite directly quoted, and I expect that Mr. Kim Valentin, the rapporteur of the Left, can distance himself from that statement and say that this can also be done at the Academy of Fine Arts; otherwise it is a desire for uniformity that lies behind the statement there. And that's what we've been worried about all along. I think that Kim Valentin and the Left should now clarify how these things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126193929	I do not find it difficult to say the same thing again, as I have said sometimes: it is not the policy of the Left, and it will not be the policy of the Left to want an alignment, whether from one end or from the other. And that's why I spend a really long time explaining exactly what we think a board should do. To reject something from another party in this Chamber, I think, in fact, that is a task that Mr. Søren Søndergaard must engage in a direct dialogue with Mr. Søndergaard. Morten Messerschmidt and clarify this question between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194006	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194009	It must be allowed to ask what the Liberals think about that statement when we are now making a joint proposal for adoption, is it not? It must then be allowed to ask what is behind the joint proposal for adoption, because it reflects precisely what Mr. Morten Messersschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti felt the problem was at the Academy of Fine Arts. I'd be very happy to put Mr. Knox down. Kim Valentin's speech is a reason and must then just state that the proposal for adoption is pure air, because the parties behind it do not really agree on anything at all either on the problem or on the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194050	That is not my view. However, I do not think there is any doubt that we too, among the authors of the text of the adoption, have different views about what goes beyond the problem. That is precisely why I am making it so clear what we want. We don't want We want a professional board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194118	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is ready to arrive when the platform has been so finely disinfected and prepared it is so beautiful, and it is a study to see how members have different drying techniques; a small book will be published in one day. Laughter Thank you Mr. Kim Valentin. Welcome to Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194206	Yes, then they got it with them; the Left cleans up Radical Left or, no, the Left cleans up after itself to prepare the way That's what you could put in more, couldn't you? Well, I had actually prepared a slightly more serious speech, but now the mood has become a little more bold and also uplifted, not least after we have heard Mr. Kim Valentin affirms the liberal principles. And I would just like to say there, before I start my speech, that I think that there is a real difference of opinion in favour of pluralism, where it is said that everything must be there, but that nothing must dominate. That's the point of view I'm hearing from Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin, and that is my own point of view as well. And then there's the point of view I hear from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who says that there are some currents that must not be present at all. That's the difference. And then you want to straighten out in the direction of one flow. Let me come back to my presentation, even though it may sometimes be very nice to reflect on what is being said here, so that you do not just read what you have prepared from home. But this question debate starts with an action at the Academy of Fine Arts, where a lecturer and a group of students threw a plaster bust of the founder of the Academy of Fine Arts, Frederik V, in the harbour. And I must say that I also lifted my eyebrows when I heard about the action, and I thought: have they completely lost their minds? What's the point? Does that give us a different perspective on our past? Does it clean up after the sins of the past? Does it bring justice to the victims of the past? I don't think so. But is that art? I think we have to let posterity and art experts decide that. And then I know that I've already provoked Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. He's not here. It's actually a little bizarre, to be honest. We have been urged to withdraw proposals and debates during this time during corona, but this debate has been maintained but you do not have time to be here yourself. But I think we have an exciting debate here. Whether it's art or not, I don't think it'll ever be a political question. I think art experts and posterity will have to decide that. But what we know is vandalism. And, of course, it must be persecuted and sanctioned as a vandalism, and it does not make it worse or better that the sponsors proclaim that it is art. But what really bothers me most about this action is what it is being used for, and also what it is being abused for. First of all, it makes it all too easy to sweep aside any debate about our past of colonialism and racism as an identity policy. I think that's sad. Worse still, however, the action gives today's proposers, or perhaps in fact only one of them, an excuse to launch an attack on the freedom of the Academy of Fine Arts and on artistic freedom itself. I have to say, it ran cold down my back when I heard sir. Morten Messerschmidt's speech, and I couldn't help but smile when I read the query text, the presentation for the debate, where the authors wrote about freedom of mind. Because I understand that it is freedom from the tendencies of identity policy, that is, they must not be there. And they must certainly not dominate there I agree. I believe, however, that they must be there, as must all sorts of other positions, including those with which I very much disagree. I think we need to differentiate slightly from the questioners, because I also understand that there is a slight difference between the motives and attitudes of the questioners. But I can understand from one of them, namely the one who has left the Chamber now and is not taking part in the debate, that he believes that not only should we strike down and remove everyone employed for identity policy; we must also replace it with a one-way policy of national conservatism. And that is what the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has been in charge for many years. And what they are actually proposing here is to strengthen freedom of spirit by appointing a political board according to DR's model. And then it's the political board that's gonna hire a principal and beat down on identity policy and modeling, and here I quote Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. And then they, you can now understand from today's debate, are also moved away from Copenhagen as such a kind of punishment. We agree that the Academy of Fine Arts can be strengthened by having a board of directors, but of course not to standardize the Academy of Fine Arts and strike down certain currents, but on the contrary to ensure pluralism, so that the identity policy yes, or neoliberalism or Marxism or Communism or something quite fifth does not suddenly dominate it all; to ensure political independence; to ensure professionalism. And we look forward to continuing the debate on this subject with the parties of the Danish Parliament, and it actually sounds like this debate, I think we can find a fairly large common basis, perhaps with the exception of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194715	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194719	I will then also have the opportunity indirectly to praise the rapporteur's speech and the clarity about how a possible board of directors should be organised. Let us forget that, for some reason or other, an initiator of this debate is not here, which is quite right to say that it is paradoxical. That we are discussing and having this debate and that whoever took the initiative is not here in the Chamber, I have never seen it before. But how can we go in and support the Academy of Fine Arts in the situation we face? One thing is a better organization. Another thing is to provide the institution with a proper financial basis for acting at all at the level we would like to have. What is the rapporteur's view of Radicals? How do we go in and support the institution, ensure that we get the Academy of Fine Arts that we all deserve and not least the students?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194826	I think there are several levels in this discussion. After all, something is about the work/study environment itself, which is also one of the internal conflicts, which is a management task, and which I believe the current management structure does not support handling. In other words, you stand as the rector alone with pressure from the bottom of an Academy of Fine Arts, employees and students who can have some intense discussions, and in many ways I think that is a very good thing, and vice versa also with a public who is pressing. There I think it is a very good way to go to have a board of directors, which may be the backbone that a principal can rely on. I just think it is incredibly important that it is a professionally funded board because it has two key roles and one is to ensure professionalism, and the other is to ensure pluralism. It is, in my opinion, the two most important, and of course artistic quality, but it is also subject to professionalism. Then, of course, there is also an economic issue. It has long been a problem that there was not enough money to have enough workshop hours, and I think that is a real criticism, but it falls back on ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194940	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126194943	Something that I think has been exciting in the debate we have had so far is that there are two cultural views in play here, one that I hear from the rapporteur from Radicals too, that is, a pluralistic view of art, and then we have a national conservative view of art, which is about saying that you have to have edifying culture and art. It's gonna run cold down my back when I hear that formulation. What does the rapporteur think is at stake right now? Because it's been running a lot against each other in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195027	Well, it's a very accurate rendering, sir. Uffe Elbæk himself made. However, what I find interesting and think has been good in today's debate has been that we have heard that there is a difference between the bourgeois parties. It is a very, very clear and important dividing line whether one pursues a one-way view of culture, whether it is national conservative or whether it is identity policy; it might as well be. The main idea behind the Danish People's Party's view of culture is that one has the right to control culture in one particular direction, and then everything else has to be severely crushed. In fact, I hear that only one party has that view. All other parties in the Folketing today have represented a pluralistic view of art, where one can then have one's own darlings or his favouriteisms or something that provokes more or less, but where one basically believes in pluralism, because it is also the foundation of our democracy, and I think that is pleasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195130	The President largely believes in keeping to the speaking time; it is as simple as that. There is one more that would like to make a brief comment. It's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195138	Thank you. The group of teachers and students who made the Frederik V action was and is inspired by a definite theory, called postcolonial theory. What characterises that theory is its massive intolerance to any other way of thinking, because one does not recognise the scientific method and one does not recognise the principle that one can be wrong. It is the case in post-colonial theory that colonialism a priori has been identified as a problem, even though stories can say that Frederik V's regime did not earn very many percent of the national budget in, for example, slave trade. What is Mrs. Zenia Stampe's comment on this kind of intolerance that is built into a particular theory?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195238	I do not agree with that, but it must be there, just as Communists, Socialists or National Conservatives can sit in an art academy, just as there is sitting here, I was about to say, but I don't really know if they are communists anymore. However, there must be the same pluralism in cultural life as there is here and there is in society. I think that's only natural. But no ice cream must dominate. That's the problem. And I would also be worried about these ice creams, as Mr. Henrik Dahl refers to if they dominated. And that is also what we have heard some stories about, that is, that there are some students and employees at the Academy of Fine Arts who feel that this identity policy or wokeism, or whatever we call it, has begun to dominate in a way that leads to some kind of self-censorship for others. And that is a problem, and it is a management task to go against it, but that does not mean that we should prohibit that there are courses in that type ofism and all sorts of other ice cream. Because that is what is great about freedom of expression, political freedom, artistic freedom, that is, we have everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195354	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195356	However, I think with all due respect that Mrs Zenia Stampe comes a little too easy on this with her answer, because the group of theories we are talking about does not recognise legitimate disagreement. And what is why we can make broad agreements here in the Folketing, even if we are elected for different parties, or we can make documents of understanding or texts of adoption, is that we recognise that there is something called legitimate disagreement. What is the solution to the fact that power at the Academy of Fine Arts is taken over by a grouping that does not believe that there is something called legitimate disagreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195430	But I do not think anyone should take over the power of the Academy of Fine Arts. That's what's basic. It would be equally scandalous if a national junta were to sit and think that they had a patent on the truth and that, by the way, they were traitors or the like if they were to speak in opposition to them. After all, any dominance is a threat to free and open democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195456	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195501	I was not really going to take the floor, but I was just inspired by the rapporteur's debate with Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl. For the rapporteur spent a great deal of time in his speech condemning the national conservative culture view of the Danish People's Party. For obvious reasons, it is not a culture view that I share, but that is not what is at the heart of the matter here, where it is about the Academy of Fine Arts and artistic education; it is, on the contrary, this wokeism, the policy of identity, or whatever to call it. And it really has the same qualities as what Mrs Zenia Stampe criticises Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's view of culture is that it leaves no room for other attitudes. And that is why we cannot treat it in such a way as to be equal to all other currents, which, of course, are inherent in the fact that they respect the right to an opinion of all the other currents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195553	So, shall we begin to go in and do an academic analysis of every singleism and then find out whether they such basics in their original form are contrary to any freedom or not? I think there is more to it than that, but we cannot go in and say that one must be nationalist at the Academy of Fine Arts, that one must be liberal, that one must be all sorts of things, but that one must not be that, because that theory is inherent in it. I mean, it's gonna be too far-fetched. Then we start sitting like this and being feinschmeckers, about who may be free and who may not be free. That is not in line, I think, with the fundamental idea of freedom. And I didn't condemn the National Conservative vision. What I condemn is if, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt says that it should dominate, that is to say that you will not only crack down on identity policy, which must not be there at all, but also want that theism that he happens to be standing on might also be another one so must have it all, clear the table. That is what I am so fervently opposed to, which is so fundamental to the concept of freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195702	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195704	But this is also quite the same as what the extreme aspects of identity policy mean, which is also that there should be no room for anyone other than the one way of seeing the world. And I think that, in fact, we would have had the same debate and the same problem if it had now been the national conservative view, where, according to some interpretations, there was only one way of doing art or seeing the development of art. My point is that it gets very close to the individual educational institution because it suddenly means that there are students and employees who do not feel that the word is free anymore. That is, I suppose, the real problem and what is our responsibility in this regard to act on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195749	But that's what I said. And, frankly, sometimes I get a tiny bit tired of us being some people who have to be blamed a little between the lines, as if we think that identity policy is just super fine, and that, for example, it is. is super fine that white heterosexual men in the 40s somehow have to be knocked down the hierarchy or have to be removed because they have dominated too long, etc. etc. I do not think so. And I think there's a lot of that identity policy that's fucked up. But there is also a great deal of communism, and probably very socialism and very national conservatism, etc. that exists. After all, all ice cream can become extreme, and when something becomes extreme and especially extreme in a way where you like to dominate, it is dangerous. And I'm sorry if mr. Søren Søndergaard has been offended by what I have said with Communism, but I don't think so, and there are some...
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195838	Thank you. He will certainly say so afterwards. There is one more comment, and it is from Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195845	Thank you. It is of course interesting and it is a very important debate that we have, and I am listening to the rapporteur's concern that there should not be one and the other, and I am delighted about that. It is of course important that the word should be free and that artistic education should not be threatened as a student and feel insecure if one is politically of a different opinion. This leads me to think that I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether boards should be set up for all artistic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126195925	Frankly, I do not have an overview of all artistic education. Because you can already wonder a little about the difference between the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts and the art academies at Funen and in Jutland. There are boards of directors, and I really think that some of what inspires me in the talk we are going to have about the Academy of Fine Arts are the boards and the way they are composed and the way they work. But I do not have the chromed overview of the entire cultural education policy landscape, so I can pinpoint where else there are examples of institutions that do not have a board of directors. Otherwise it is the basic rule that our higher education has But there are so few exceptions, and the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts does not have one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200016	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200018	I can then confirm that several of them have not, among other things. The Danish Film Institute, where there have also been challenges and challenges. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there are some trends in artistic education that have taken precedence, in other words, the influx of a certain direction of identity policy that dominates too much, and that this may be a problem for our democratic society? Well, now I'm thinking broadly about our artistic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200106	Well, it sounds like something's out of control at the Academy of Fine Arts. That is what I said in my speech. What is so important to me is that one dominance is not just replaced by another, but that what we can hopefully agree on here is that any dominance must be broken, so that we have the pluralism that I believe is the basis for most parties in here. I myself think that the best picture I have ever got on it was Krogerup Højskole, where a former national chairman of the Radical Left was formerly the headmaster. He arranged to have teachers from all political parties. There was the stick-conservative who was the liberal who was the Communist and so on. How wonderful! It is, in fact, the case that there must be a great deal of pluralism. A better education in our society and democracy cannot be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200155	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, who is now on the floor, is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, and it is for the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200235	Thank you. We usually start by thanking the authors of the question for raising the debate. We could also begin to discuss what kind of debate we are having. Because, as I said earlier, I think it is moving at many levels. Well, are we discussing in concrete terms a department manager's action with vandalism on a bust? Are we discussing ice cream in art, or are we discussing political ice cream? Or are we discussing how we can create an amazing Academy of Fine Arts? Perhaps that's what I think it might be a little more interesting to discuss here in the Folketing: How do we create the right framework for us to have an amazing education in the arts? How do we make sure that the space is there to create the framework for the students so that they can evolve and we can have the huge high level that I think we all want at our educational institutions? That is actually what should be interesting to discuss for us here in the Folketing, as I see it. I also think it is a great deal about what it is really like to set an institution free to develop. Because I think perhaps the challenge, when I look at the Academy of Fine Arts, has been that it has been kept on too tight a leash because there has not really been a development room, a proper management room, on the education. So how can we develop it? There is the board thinking, so you get in the layer that can strengthen a principal in your management, but there's also talking about economics when you do an education. And that is where we have to say that our degree programmes in Denmark, including the artistic ones, have for many years been subject to quite a large and violent saving. And that is something I think we must look at so much. Is there a proper economy to develop the education that needs to be, to have the workshop facilities that must also be, and to have the diversity of teachers who can meet the students and teach them how to develop as artists that are needed? Do we have that level? Something else I think we need to discuss when we discuss the Academy of Fine Arts is, in fact, what has been going on about other artistic education, for example. The film school and all this Bologna accreditation, which also creates a pretty big kind of alignment. Is that the right way to do it? Personally, I have often raised the flag that I think some mistakes have been made when it was done with the design and architect training; that you lose parts of it because it becomes very academic all of a sudden. And is that what we're going to have an art academy for, or is that where else we're really good at it? So that is actually what I think is worth seriously discussing. Then I have to say, in relation to this whole debate on identity policy, that what we heard from the questioner, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who unfortunately is not here now, was so much a policy of identity. It is therefore an expression of identity policy to want to standardize what identity we have, our thinking and so on, and we have to get out of that, we have to get away from that; that there is only one way to do things. But can it be present? Yes, like other types of identity policy, but it is therefore important that we just understand that identity policy is as much about national identity as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt likes to speak in favour. I think that is what I really want to say, and then I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the SF, Enhedslisten, Alternative and Free Greens: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament rejects the destruction of the bust of Frederik V, regardless of the fact that it is perceived by the actors as an artistically defined act. At the same time, the Danish Parliament recognises that it can be fully academically relevant for students and employees at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts to discuss Denmark's colonial history, structural racism, gender identities and power relationships in society, all in an artistic and creative perspective. The Danish Parliament also calls on the government to ensure that the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts schools have sufficient financial resources to continue to have workshops and professional resources to train artists at the highest possible quality level. • V 62).
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200659	Thank you to the rapporteur. The text of the adoption will be included in the other negotiations. I keep to the rapporteur, because there are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and first of all it is from Mr Beazley's report. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200708	Those who know my political relationship with the rapporteur know that I agree fairly with what has been said. But I still want to ask about SF's position on the boards. Does SF want us to have professional boards on our artistic programmes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200733	Yes, we do. We would like to see a board of directors coming into the Academy of Fine Arts, which is technically based, so that you look at what is needed of professional skills on such a board of directors, but it is also, I think, quite important to think about how the employees and students are also helping to create the framework of an educational institution. I think it would be interesting to examine whether this is not how a board should be put together. But yes, we want boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200758	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200802	This is an important point, as the rapporteur makes, that when we talk about professional boards, we also have to think about the students and see how the students' voice can be present in the boardroom. Then I would like to ask a very important point raised by the rapporteur on the Bologna Agreement and how it might be desirable to de-academise our artistic education. I heard it may be that I over-interpreted that the Minister for Culture was also talking about how to get the craftsmanship back in the courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200848	It is, of course, both a craftsmanship, but just as much a creative training, and what I think we should be very aware of when we have these Bologna processes is that there are different lines within the Bologna rules that can be followed. What has been done in Denmark in the past, where the academic path has largely been taken, is what has been done with the design and architecture schools. We can see that in other countries the guidelines laid down in the Bologna Agreement have been used to find other ways of developing education. And I am sure that our current Minister for Culture will be joining us in doing so in the best possible way for artistic education under the Ministry of Culture at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200925	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200927	Thank you. I'm gonna have to read this. History is probably the greatest threat to progress. It is disrespectful to destroy history, for if it is destroyed, we will also displace the mistakes that we must not repeat for all things in the world. Is that setting the art free? Is it a community when, like the Academy of Fine Arts, one demands that others submit to a very aggressive and historyless attitude? Is it particularly solidarity to trample on the community in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126200959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201000	I don't know. I have no prerequisites for knowing whether that is what is being done at the Academy of Fine Arts. I think it is quite relevant to discuss our history. History isn't just something you have to sit and read and then don't relate to. I think that we should discuss how our past has been, including in relation to colonialism. After all, history is alive and something that also develops in a discussion. We should not just look at it as something factual and then move on. Then it'll be historyless. So the discussion about history must be present, also at the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201036	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201038	Then I have to understand that the vandalization of our statues we've seen throughout the fall, and throwing our cultural heritage in the harbor, is okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201051	No, how can the rapporteur hear that? At least I am very concerned about that. I therefore think that I started by criticising it, and this was even emphasised in the proposal for adoption that I read out. So no, I don't understand that clutch. It may be that the question was also read from the paper and prepared in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201107	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201111	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for clarifying the SF's position. I'd like a little clarification about this board. To what extent do the SF and the rapporteur believe that the absence of a board of directors has had an impact on the current situation??
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201140	I think a lot of things are involved. I do not think it can be said that one thing is involved and that the Academy of Fine Arts is in the situation it is doing today. But I think one thing is that the management room has been very narrow and cramped because there has just been a principal. And I really believe that you could solve that problem by having a board of directors with which the boss could spar and develop together. That there is that room, I think, can actually solve a great deal and also create greater openness in the institution. But I also believe that the pressure that has been on the institution otherwise has been on the cuts that have been made, which, after all, have reduced the space that was at the Academy of Fine Arts, has played an extremely important part in the situation we are seeing today at the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201216	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201218	Thank you. Then I would also like another small clarification: if we look at the board that I can hear we also reasonably agree that there should be, what should be the political participation on that board? Does the SF believe that there should be no political influence whatsoever on the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201241	I do not see why there should be a political influence. I don't quite get it. We are making the legislation, the framework of the training, which a board of directors, i.e. a management, must unfold. You can make appointments of boards in many ways. I do not have a finished result on how to do it, but it can of course be in the form of settings from different parts of an environment, different organisations, advice etc. But I do not understand why there should be political control of it. Nor do I think that it is at the Academy of Art's Design School or at the University of Copenhagen that the parties should appoint who they think should sit and decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201319	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201322	Thank you. One of the most acclaimed specialist books last year was a book called Cynical Theories, on Danish cynical theories, by two American historians of ideas, and they demonstrate very, very convincingly that these postcolonial theories are anti-scientific. They are basically anti-scientific because they are unresponsive to the input of other scientists and women. I cannot hear at all that the SF considers it a problem that the Academy of Fine Arts is taken over by an anti-scientific political direction. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201407	But I have to question what the Liberal Alliance believes is a fact that the Academy of Fine Arts is taken over by. I heard that the President-in-Office of the Council actually distanced himself from the action that had taken place. I have heard other voices, including from the academy, who have also had different opinions. So the thing about being taken over by something I don't recognize. I think it makes sense that we are looking at this very well and also looking at how we can get good management in etc. But the fact that it is a fact that the Academy of Fine Arts is taken over by some political entity which has a certain political theory, as Mr. Henrik Dahl is trumpeting, I have no basis to say that is so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201449	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201450	But does this mean that Poul Pilgaard Johnsen has filled two full pages of Weekendavisen with lies in April and November 2020? For it is very shocking if it is complete fiction what has been brought in the Weekendavisen on two different occasions. They were just about the fact that postcolonial theory has taken over power at the Academy of Fine Arts. What is contained in the two major and apparently very thoroughly researched articles is something that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist now apparently thinks is fiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201525	No, I don't, but I just don't want to say that two articles in Weekendavisen are the only truth. I think that I have just been discussing the idea that we are seeing an art academy which is under pressure and which is in a development where we have to look at how to get this institution forward. This is actually the nuance that I am going into, and not such a small result that it is two articles that define the whole discussion. I fully acknowledge that there is a great deal of criticism, including that made by Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl, but I'm just a little more nuanced with reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201554	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Before giving the floor to the Enhedslisten, I would like to do something a little different, because it turns out that the radical rapporteur forgot to read out his text for adoption. That is something that normally goes beyond the speaking time, since it was so much spent. However, it is quite all right that I now welcome Mrs Zenia Stampe to present a proposal for adoption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201626	Thank you so much. I forgot to read out the text of the adoption, and I was not really aware that it would then not be valid, because it must be made formal and oral. So I will read out our proposal for adoption. It sounds like this: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament wants to strengthen artistic freedom and the status of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts as a politically independent educational institution with freedom and professionalism as a pillar. The Danish Parliament therefore invites the Minister for Culture to explore the possibility of introducing a new management structure for the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts schools, which ensure freedom and professionalism through the establishment of a politically independent board with strong artistic competences and representation of employees and students. The board will manage the daily work at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts schools together with a rector appointed and dismissed by the board of directors. • V 63).
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. I would therefore like to welcome the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr Gundelach's report. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126201748	If you really want freedom of spirit at the Academy of Fine Arts, it is our view that it must be understood as the exact opposite of political control. In our view, the principle of arms length is sacred to art and knowledge institutions, and it must not be kidded or attacked. Yeah, it's okay, but then we'll just go against it. The whole argument for introducing an independent board is that the Academy of Fine Arts should not be dictated by the Ministry of Culture or the political whims of the Danish Parliament. It is the arm's length arm that guarantees freedom of expression. If you want to secure, develop and lift the Academy of Fine Arts, you have to invest in the institution. The sharp cuts of recent years have put pressure on professionalism. The Academy of Fine Arts has been pushed down into incomprehensible bureaucracy processes when the school was to be accredited, subject to the ECTS system, part of the Bologna process, etc. There is no need for more bureaucracy. On the contrary, overbureaucratisation is already a problem for a small institution such as the Academy. If we want a society that has room for artistic freedom, the extension of the concept of normality, the criticism of power and alternative thinking, politicians must refrain from retailing art. The political importance of the independence of art can be negatively deduced from the fact that totalitarian societies do not have free art schools. The Enhedslisten has therefore also proposed that a board be set up to support the development of artistic, educational and academic quality and to help ensure that students, employees as well as the general public experience and benefit from an institution where opinions are broken constructively through artistic practice, curious conversation and inspiring exchange of views. It is important for Enhedslisten that the overall management of our educations is democratic and professionally founded. Of course, the board should not be the henchman for a political level and the changing political winds that blow there, but should be independent and act independently. Therefore, it is also important that employees and students are represented and participate in the board work on an equal footing with other board members to ensure participation for employees and students. The board's task must be to determine the overall and strategic direction for the art and educational work of the Academy of Fine Arts without detailed management of the teaching and day-to-day operation, and of course the board should not be populated with commercial actors who have too strong a focus on professional considerations and competences. The board is to safeguard what the Academy of Fine Arts is set in the world for: the creative art and the work of the performer. A new board should not be imposed as a penalty or as an action aimed at putting art education under political or bureaucratic administration. It is in itself neither surprising nor problematic that an artistic educational and research institution which teaches artists to take a critical look at time and society is a place where the waves go high and opinions are broken. And with meanings broken, of course, everyone should also be given the opportunity to speak. The art must challenge our entrenched habits and performances and invent alternative bids for the future, and it would therefore be strange if nothing happened at the Academy, and too bad if we were to be intimidated by a little political turbulence and sacrifice the freedom that is part of both the DNA of the Academy of Fine Arts and art.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202218	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur will be prepared. Excuse me now, I see that there has been pressure, so there is actually a brief comment. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202244	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. And the arm's length principle, yes, thank you, I certainly think that is important too. I noted that the rapporteur mentioned the need to invest in the Academy of Fine Arts. I mean, it's about funds, but it's not about a management problem. I did not hear the rapporteur mention at any time that the challenges facing the Academy of Fine Arts, how strong internal forces in certain educational circles have led us to stand here today and discuss the subject we are discussing, actually pose a problem at the Academy of Fine Arts. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether this is not also a management problem at the Academy of Fine Arts and not just about funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202344	Well, the form of management that you've had at the Academy of Fine Arts hasn't been good. That is why we are putting forward a proposal, which I mentioned in my speech, for another way of running the Academy of Fine Arts, namely a board which is independent and which is composed of different qualifications and which also involves students and employees. That is precisely an indication that we do not think that the way it has worked has been good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202413	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman? There was no brief comment. Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202432	Thank you. I should now like to thank you for raising this debate today. I think it is very interesting and I think it is really, really important, and it gives rise to a great many other things, which I also think it is important that we have a debate on culture. In fact, the last few months have offered a violent cultural debate, which is the result of the event at the Academy of Fine Arts, where a teacher, together with a group of students, threw a bust of the academy's founder, King Frederik V, in Copenhagen's harbour. It is a sad matter because it says something about the cultural foundation that many of us thought we shared, perhaps not so strong after all. I think it is quite obvious that as a teacher or student at the Academy of Fine Arts, one must of course respect the history of art and the artists who have preceded oneself. Strong political attitudes must not be allowed to shy away from the fact that it is a development of new art that should be in focus on the Academy of Fine Arts, not the destruction of the old one. Anyone who does not learn from history is forced to repeat it. When the left in these times tries to demolish statues, it is a sign of a deeply misunderstood understanding of history, for history is by its very nature something that has taken place. Therefore, the idea that one can change history by removing statues and other monuments is just an illusion. Let's focus on learning about our history instead of censoring it. At present there is a fundamental confrontation between today's values and the standards of the past. One of the ways this is expressed is by a deeper understanding of the past and its characters. Whether it is racism or sexism, we have become more aware of the shadows of our historical people. This development is positive in itself, because when we deal with history we treat ourselves too. Thus, the more nuanced insight into our past means a stronger self-understanding in the present. Therefore, I also look at it with deep regret when left-wing movements use today's necessary debates to censor history by removing statues. The Academy of Fine Arts was founded in 1754 as a fantastic example of a real offensive and forward-looking cultural policy in which the King and the people who surrounded him wanted to create the best framework for the development of a Danish art tradition that we had not really had before. It was important enough to give art an entire castle, Charlottenborg, where it could develop and thrive. In a time of identity policy and excessive attention to differences, it was perhaps time to focus on the common, the common human, what it means to be a Dane in an international time, and how we get the art and this feeling of the sublime to play a role in all Danes' lives. In concrete terms, this means that we must distinguish between our culture, language, standards and habits. • What grows up when we live with each other over time • and art, which comes from culture, but which opens the world and perhaps gives us an opportunity to see that our life or society can be in a different way. Culture is about identity: who am I as a man and a nation? Art is about realization: What can I become as a man and a nation? So culture is more than a handball hall. It is still the job of art to benefit and inspire all of us, and I fear this is difficult if the political messages become all-over-shadowing and the art may be completely forgotten. Art is very much allowed to relate to its time, and it must also be given a political message, but it must not only be political, it must create something, it must not destroy other people's works of art. The art's task is to gather us together not necessarily all of us about the same all the time and to remind us that we have a common foundation as Danes, that we are getting to know each other and that we can develop through a new inspiration. The Academy of Fine Arts as Denmark's oldest and leading artistic education institution will contribute to this. As a society, we must demand that they take this seriously. It is not only disrespectful to destroy statues, it is also unsaved by those who want to change society. History is probably the greatest threat to progress. It is disrespectful to destroy history, for if it is destroyed, we will also displace the error, which we must not repeat for all things in the world. But wiping out symbols and wiping out our history will be a tragedy. Vandalism should never be a solution. Instead, it must be replaced by information. We must learn from history, not repeat it. In the Conservative People's Party, we are deeply opposed to any destruction of cultural heritage. And I am pleased that the Minister has launched an independent study and set up a committee to plan a future organisation, but we call on the Minister to ensure that the Academy of Fine Arts, as an educational institution, maintains an artistically high level of teaching, among other things. by establishing a competent and professional board for the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202943	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126202948	My question to the Conservative rapporteur goes in the way that the rapporteur makes her speech, that is to say that she uses some very large absolutes: that it is the left who has done this; that it is the entire left, i.e. SF, Enhedslisten, Free Greens, all those who can possibly imagine who are responsible for the bust case we have at the Academy. And I think it's symptomatic of some of the talk we've had that we use absolutes. We use absolutes about the left, we use absolutes about identity policy. And then, in fact, I think that the point goes, because what we want is 'and I hope that is what the rapporteur wants us to be able to talk about what is happening, that we can see the nuances, that we can see the differences, that we can get different votes out in the discussion. So does the rapporteur also have a concern about those absolutes we use in this debate too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203057	Absolutely! I think the rapporteur has a very good point, that is to say that this debate should be taken into account. I very much agree with that. But I also think that the reason why we are here today is that it is a particularly politically strong position that has created this debate today. And I think that is also important to address; it is just as important as if it had been on another wing and some extremes had taken action on something quite different. I would have distanced myself from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203133	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203135	I'm gonna have to make a disclaimer like that before I bring up the question so that I don't get molested. In other words, the act that has taken place at the academy, I cannot vouch for it at all, and I cannot argue for it. However, my question is whether the rapporteur also recognises that throughout history, when we have seen system changes, we have seen populations attacking the symbols of the old power. So the thing about knocking down statues isn't the first time in history we've seen. And I do not want to defend it, but sometimes I can understand it, and I want to know if the rapporteur can do it too, i.e. when the Lenin statues in the Soviet Union were overthrown and ended with the oppressive system of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203230	I think this is wrong; I do not think it will benefit our future generations if we do it in the present in anger about something that happened 50, 100, 200 years ago. And I understand that you can have an anger and that you may want to take action on it and do something about it, but if you really have to do something about it, you have to tell the next generation that this must not happen again, and you don't do that by removing things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203308	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203312	Thank you. I must honestly admit that I was a little surprised by the speech, and it may also be that the rapporteur of the Left was. I don't know. This is why the Conservative rapporteur spent much of his time defining what art is: art's task is to gather us together, she said. Who says that? Where's it coming from? Art's job is to gather us together. It's a fantastic dogmatic manifesto. I would say: sometimes art's job is to gather us if the artist wants us to. Sometimes art's job is to go miles ahead, to invent the plane, many 100 years before you can fly, if you're called Leonardo, or whatever it may be. Art's job is not to collect. And what worries me a lot is that we have had several rapporteurs, we have had a rapporteur from the Danish People's Party and now a rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party who is trying to lay down a specific template on what real art is, and I disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203428	I am not in any way trying to put a specific template down over the art. What I think we see with this case at the Academy of Fine Arts is precisely that it divides us very much, and I think that is really unfortunate. I think that in society, with the whole situation that we are now seeing in the United States, we also see it here at home with the polarization... we need something we need to focus on, and that is to gather ourselves together. That's why I think what art can do is get us together. But I also share the view that art must also provoke us. It's gonna piss us off. It's gonna make us curious. Art must be capable of many things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203504	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203506	Why, then, does the Conservative rapporteur make this manifesto about what art is supposed to be? I mean, I just can't understand it, and I can't understand the art vision at all. So, there is entertainment and so on, and it can also be artistic and so forth, but in my world good art is something that sets in motion a thinking and takes the lead; something that we have not seen; something that stretches out in the time that lies ahead of us. And that's the exact opposite of collecting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203544	I can assure you that the rapporteur will interpret this, because art must be capable of many different things, but we are here today on the basis of a very, very unfortunate situation. Therefore, it was important for me to stress that art should also be able to unite us. I think that is important. But that art must also be able to do something different, I fully agree with it. So, I'm not buying Mr. Chandler. Søren Søndergaard's great plunder that it is a conservative matter that art should only be able to gather us together, because it is simply not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203621	The next brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203624	This is the identity policy that many of us are critical of, especially when it becomes dominant, but my question is: what is this about? Is this about cleansing identity policy, or is it about not being dominant and thus defining other views of art at the Academy of Fine Arts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203653	Well, I think that the art academy is a really good example, because that's definitely where we're not and we should never go there. That's why we're here today, and I'm listening to everyone wanting a board of directors. We in the Conservative People's Party also want a competent professional board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203724	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203726	At least we agree on paragraph 2, which is that we want to prevent dominance, that is to say that a certain view of art goes in and dominates and clears the others off the road, so to speak. But do we also agree that we are fighting for the right of all viewers of art to be there, because pluralism is also a democratic value? This means that identity policy must be there, just as there must be all sorts of other views of art, which one can be either in favour or strongly opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203759	Listen, we live in a free country. Fortunately, Denmark is a wonderful democratic country, and of course you must have all the different views and types of art that you want. It must not become dominant, and it must not be devastating. We should not throw out our cultural heritage with the bathing water because we do not like the history that has been going on at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203817	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. If the rapporteur would like to take the floor before the next speaker, who is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126203844	Thank you for the floor. As I have already mentioned sometimes, the professional driving force behind the destruction of Frederik V bust is a phenomenon called post-colonial theory. And what is postcolonial theory? It is a theoretical assumption that the Western world has a moral obligation to end colonial times. When I mention the theory, it is because the curator at the National Museum of Denmark, Ulla Kjær, in Berlingske, wrote on 8 December last year that Frederik V's regime did not actually earn much of the state income from the so-called triangular trade. The regime primarily served money by improving productivity in agriculture, by remote trade and by staying out of war in the period 1721 to 1801. What is of course the problem is that this kind of empirical facts does not make any impression on post-colonial theory, for it has once and for all determined how the world is connected. It is one of the many woketheories that have conquered the academic world. I apologise to the Rules of Procedure, because I know that we are going to speak Danish, but the woke is not translatable, and I also believe that it has drifted into the Danish language as a Danish word. It has some meanings such as: politically correct, intolerant to other perceptions and intolerant to other people. What's common to these woketheories is not just postcolonial theory; it's just one of them. It's two things: it's firstly that you don't think there are objective truths, and secondly that you think that what we used to call truth is the exercise of power. So if I am to exemplify it, it is so in a woke universe that when Einstein said that energy is equal to mass times the velocity of light in second power, then it is not a description of what the world is like; it is an expression that the power click that Albert Einstein belonged to was successful in defeating other perceptions of what energy is for a size. So it is politics and not science. And that's what's in these woke theory. Experience gained from, inter alia, The United States, but also from the Academy of Fine Arts in Denmark, is that wokeism, i.e. the ideology of the woke movement, is basically anti-democratic. You do not believe in legitimate disagreement; you do not believe in freedom of expression; you advocate censorship; and you are opposed to the usual standards of legal certainty when you accuse people of one thing or another. So wokeism is, firstly, anti-democratic, but it is also a sworn enemy of the usual ideals of scientific method, because it does not recognise that science is a process that leads to an ever-increasing improvement in human knowledge. It is believed that science is an ideology. And it is a very strange idea, that science is an ideology, because how can one think that it is pure ideology that we have come so far that we can make vaccines against covid-19, and what do I know? An approach based on the strange assumption that the scientific method is a kind of ideology and not some procedures that have proved their value for many centuries, is basically not a matter for institutions set up in the world to promote the scientific method. What's crucial here is whether it's the Academy of Fine Arts or elsewhere... is good management. After all, it is good governance that has led in the United States to the Chicago principles, which state that the university is an institution that does not take sides in disputes pending. It is important to adhere to the arm's length principle, but it is also important to maintain that wokeism is destructive to all kinds of scientific institutions. That is why I am pleased that there is support for the desire to strengthen governance in the context of the arm's length principle, which can put an end to wokeism, and I am pleased that there is very broad support for the joint proposal for adoption, which Mr. Kim Valentin's been reading. New citizens say hello, but that is also clear from that, sir. Kim Valentin said, and say, that they also support the proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204347	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and that is first, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204353	Now the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance says that good governance must be maintained with respect for the arm's length principle. I can only support that, and I will always argue that all votes should be given the opportunity to come forward. At least that's my understanding of democracy. But now the Liberal Alliance has asked for this debate together with the Danish People's Party, and a justification for it has been formulated together. Then we've heard today, sir. Morten Messerschmidt says that you want strict control to vent into the smell of identity-political socialism. As Mr. Morten Messerschmidt formulated it, should one put an end to the extremism taking place at the academy. There were also formulations, such as that the art should be edifying. It was the culture view of the Danish People's Party. How am I supposed to understand that we want this debate together? Does the rapporteur agree with his co-author or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204510	I believe that we must understand the text of the adoption, just as we understand the paper of understanding. The understanding paper reflects the points on which the four parties behind the understanding paper agree. The text of the adoption reflects what six parties agree on. But the paper of understanding does not mean, as far as I know, that the Enhedslisten or the Radical Left have the same policy or that I can cross-examine Mrs Zenia Stampe about the policy of Enhedslisten. This means that we agree on the understanding paper. The six parties responsible for the text of the adoption agree on the text of the adoption. Whatever the parties mean, of course I am not in favour of, because I represent the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204551	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204553	Now we had such a fairly thorough review of the woke concept. Actually, I thought it was something about Madonna. Some of those words I just don't understand. I have to admit that, but I have now received an interpretation from the rapporteur. If I have understood the rapporteur's interpretation of the concept of woke, was it Danish Folkeparti-woke?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204618	Wokeism descends from deconstructiveism, i.e. from thinkers such as Michel Foucault, Derrida and Jean-Francois Lyotard, and it has developed further into some of these theories that we have talked about today. I did not hear the Danish People's Party say anything special about Michel Foucault, so I cannot really explain whether Foucault and deconstructiveism and post-structuralism are also part of the Danish People's Party's way of thinking about wokeism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204658	The next brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204701	It would almost have been desirable for the proposer to have called for a debate on wokeism instead, because that is clearly what the proposer is very concerned about. But what we are discussing is the Academy of Fine Arts and freedom of spirit at the Academy of Fine Arts. And that's where I'd like to hear how Mr. Henrik Dahl actually defines it. Because as I hear Mr. Henrik Dahl and I am really a little sorry about that, but it may be that I hear wrong that freedom of mind at the Academy of Fine Arts is the right thing to do, that you have to do some kind of analysis of the different views of art, and then there are some visions of art that do not have an inherent freedom, and they must not be there, and that is how you fight for freedom of spirit. I would like to ask if that is correct. And then I just want to say straight away that it is very far away from my own view of freedom, which is not about a particularism, but about the right of people to believe in whatever they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204803	I am very pleased with Mrs Zenia Stampe's question, because it gives me the opportunity to repeat some of what I said in my rapporteur's speech, and it is that we in the Liberal Alliance find it unacceptable that the power of the Academy of Fine Arts should be taken over by an anti-democratic and, in part, anti-scientific clique, because once an anti-democratic clique has power, what has also been revealed in this series of articles that Poul Pilgaard Johnsen has written for Weekendavisen. So Kasper Sand Kjær used that others cannot speak. And what has been the problem has been that others have not been able to express themselves because of an anti-democratic clique that has taken over power at the academy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204851	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204852	But is it the character ofism that has taken over the others, or is it because there are incredibly many who now believe in this wokeism, and the majority use that majority to suppress the minority? If the latter is true, I am also worried, and so am I, when I hear some of the stories that there should be a lot of students who so come together in this wokeism, or whatever it is called, and cast out other views. I also find that problematic. But I also hear something else in what Henrik Dahl says, namely that just the presence of thisism is a threat to freedom of spirit and that it must be removed from the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204931	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126204933	Well, the presence of very small quantities of plutonium properly wrapped is not a problem, so of course you can have an anti-democratic political ideology in some forms where it does not subjugate others. However, the many and long statements made by the expelled head of department on post-colonial theory are examples of the theories derived here from deconstructiveism, which are very, very antidemocratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205006	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205008	Now I shall not be stuck with the fact that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, has made a joint query with the Danish People's Party that is fine and let us forget for a moment that a joint proposal for adoption has also been made, and let us instead ask Mr Dahl. Henrik Dahl, if he agrees most with, for example, the debate. Mrs. Zenia Stampe or Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist or Mr. Uffe Elbæk, who has spoken about the need for a board to ensure pluralism and that everyone can speak, that different views can be expressed, or that Mr. Henrik Dahl is more in agreement with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who stated quite clearly that what we were going to have was some who prevented statues from being made by kings wrapped in a tub. It was said directly, and I just have to ask: what is Mr. Henrik Dahl mostly in line with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205115	After all, we are six parties behind a joint motion for a resolution. And what I'm going to bring with us when we're going to talk about these things is some of the things that are also written in a book I recently published on this deconstructive wokeistish identity policy, that is, that these tasks must be carried out within the context of the arm's length principle, but that it is a management task to ensure that anti-democratic, anti-pluralist, anti-scientific currents do not defeat all forms of dissence, so that there must be a powerful management task there. And, of course, the board's structure must be one that promotes the fundamentals, i.e. that there may be an arm's length arm's-length, but that one holds on to pluralism and is persistent in fighting upswings to destroy pluralism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205212	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205213	I don't think so, sir. Henrik Dahl answers what was my question. Because there are some people in this Chamber who have made a great deal of effort to insist on pluralism, insist that everyone should be able to speak, insist that if there is a squeezing of pupils, because they have a different attitude, it must of course be stopped, and action must be taken against it, and it is a management task to take action against it. Everyone has to be able to speak, and then there are some who define who must go to the academy based on an assessment of what art they want to do. It's just that it must be possible for Mr. Henrik Dahl very clearly to say, on whose party you are, no matter what adoption texts you have made, and no matter who you have made the query with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205302	Well, it is not my job to say what approach the other five parties are behind this adoption, for example. will go into the question of the boards. I told you, in other contexts, I am in favour of the principles of Chicago set by the University of Chicago, which are intended to fight wokeism at the University of Chicago. Firstly, the principles are very good, but secondly, it was the rectorate who took the initiative to make it, and they are so approved by the board. So it also underlines what I think, that is to say, there must be some boards and a day-to-day management which are responsible for ensuring pluralism in higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205344	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205347	Thank you, and thank you for one, I had almost said, always informative speech when Mr. Henrik Dahl takes the platform. If that's all we know who's gonna start Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist's coffee club or study circle on identity policy, and I will look forward to that. But to the question: what has ended up in today's debate is freedom of spirit and pluralism, which it contains in its spirit, and how it deals with the views that go against pluralism, extremism, anti-democraticism and the limits of freedom of spirit. And we have then revolved it into really all agreeing that the grip is that we should have boards of directors as part of guaranteeing freedom of spirit. But will the rapporteur not only address this dilemma of freedom of spirit and how far it can extend to the positions that go against what freedom of spirit stands on? And what is the role of the board in guaranteeing freedom of spirit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205454	Thank you for your comments. What is being asked is a variant of Karl Popper's famous dilemma, that is, that we should be tolerant, but that we should not be tolerant of intolerance, and that is what his very famous wording is all about. Because if we are tolerant of intolerance, intolerance will, in the long run, take freedom away from all of us. So it does not go in the long run, and that is also Popper's point of being tolerant of intolerance. Of course, all this has to be done in a sensible way, and there are some good managements and some good boards, and I know that this is a rather boring repetition, but that is why the University of Chicago is so exemplary. Because it has been said that intolerance will not be tolerated, and that is what the whole principle is about, and that is something that the questioner and my party usually agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205545	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær? There were no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205605	Thank you for that and, in fact, thank you for a very, very good debate, in which some of the contradictions were really drawn up, and I will come back to that in a moment. But I would like to start by saying that I really think it is really a pity that we do not have the study that the Minister for Culture has set in motion to start the talk. Because there are many claims, and there are many assumptions, in relation to what has actually happened down at the Academy of Fine Arts. One thing is the bust case itself, but another is poor management, study environment etc. We have some articles from Weekendavisen, we have some different statements that have orbited that there are some who believe that something has happened that is inappropriate. But these are assumptions, and they are fragments, and I really look forward to getting the report so that we can find out what is up and down. But before this debate I talked to students, and I have also talked to staff at the Academy of Fine Arts and asked them how they assess what is going on there, and I think I have received many different and nuanced answers. But there are three things that are clear to me in those conversations. One is that everyone recognises that it is relevant to discuss Denmark's colonial history, that it is relevant to talk about structural racism, that it is relevant to talk about gender identities, that it is relevant to talk about power relationships in society from an artistic and creative perspective. They all agreed on that. They also agreed that at the primary school at the Academy there could be a hard culture of discussion and sometimes also too harsh a culture of discussion, but what was then absolutely crucial, and as they said was the biggest problem at the Academy of Fine Arts, was that their economy is not connected. We have seen a poor economy for many years, and I should like to stress this myself when I was Minister for Culture, in other words that the Academy of Fine Arts was not given sufficient resources to actually carry out the task that we have given them. So I think this discussion, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist of the Socialist People's Party said, acts at many levels, and there are many statements in play, and there are many assumptions in play, but, as I said, the economy was absolutely crucial. What I see now, too, is that there are two views of culture that are fighting against each other. There is, on the one hand, a national conservative view of culture in the Chamber, which has voices that have argued, and then there is another view of culture, which I would say is more diverse and cosmopolitan, and I will always stand up for the latter, and I think that some of the statements that have been made, not least from some of the authors of the motion, have been deeply problematic and that they are the exact opposite of freedom of spirit, the exact opposite of arm's length and the exact opposite of what I think we as cultural politicians should stand for. I can't make it anymore because as a non-attached person, you only have three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126205938	That's absolutely correct, sir. Uffe Elbæk. That's the way it is. I can then say that there are no brief remarks, so thank you for your speech. Will Mr. Uffe Elbæk spend just a few extra seconds on the platform, without speaking time however, to get ready for the Minister of Culture to come up here? Thank you, and welcome to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210013	Thank you very much for a very good debate. It is something that boils our minds, but it also brings us together. I would say that what remains after many different speeches and many different approaches is that what can gather can also both provoke, but also highlight what it is that we may be able to use for further work. If I were to give it one headline, it would be something like freedom under responsibility. In fact, I have heard almost everyone say that, of course, there must be artistic freedom, but that freedom only works if you also have and take responsibility for that freedom. I have not read as much about wokeism as I have read about wokeism, but I wanted to put it as if the freedom you want was something you also have to undo. In other words, if I want to make a new point of view, there must also be room for the opposite. The moment that the freedom that we would like to have under responsibility begins to be denied because there are some who do not want to do so, it is that we have a political task to go in and take responsibility. This has led to many questions and relevant questions. For example, is it... a reduction of the arm's length principle? I do not think it is in any way. On the contrary, it is to take responsibility for the fact that there may be others who want to kid that freedom under responsibility. So we take responsibility as Parliament, and we do so on the basis of statements, so that we have both what has been brought up in the public debate, but also some factual, professional contributions from people who have dug themselves into it and got all the perspectives. There will be a statement in February specifically about the situation at the Academy of Fine Arts, and there will be more committee work in the autumn, discussing how to make these boards on artistic education, but also other measures to promote the thriving. In addition, it has raised the question of what this work actually intends to do. Is it precisely to ban political trends, or is it to extend political influence? There I think the answer to both things must clearly be no, thank you. We want political debate, including for art. We want free political debate under responsibility. That means, on the other hand, that we must not restrict others in what I started by saying. But is it, on the other hand, about extending political influence into artistic space? I think the answer must also be a very clear no to that. On the contrary, we go in and take political responsibility for the fact that freedom is still there under responsibility. There have been questions about whether it may be okay to talk about an edifying culture in artistic institutions. I think that can be said if it is about artistic edification. But, of course, it cannot be in the sense that it is an edifying, politically determined, edifying, which must demand a certain political direction. That goes against freedom under liability and the arm's length principle. I believe that we agree that we are now moving forward with work that aims to ensure precisely well-being and artistic freedom under responsibility. How we do it best, how big the problems are in the different institutions and how we best organize it, these various studies and committee work will be highlighted so that we ensure that we have the right structure, the right arm's length, the right professionalism, but first and foremost the right freedom under responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210445	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210451	Thank you. I would like the Minister to make a clear statement here. I am well aware of where the Minister is and that sometimes it can be difficult to give a clear message at an early stage. And perhaps there is also a danger that the Minister will say that that is some of what this report has to show. But I'm gonna be on this board. Who's gonna be on this board? How are they to be appointed? Should there be political interference in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210539	As it is today, it is really me as a minister who is both the board of directors and the supreme body of these educational institutions. And since I am only present as a minister on the basis of a majority in this Parliament, we have already established a kind of political link with the management of these artistic educational institutions. When I say that what is the focus of this committee work, from the point of view of the government, is about establishing both a stronger sparring partner in the day-to-day, something that can deal with these well-being problems, i.e. also setting a direction that includes students etc., and these political strategic directions, i.e. finding the direction in them, and last but not least, strengthening the craftsmanship, then I do not think that I am mentioning anything politically, because I believe that we are actually in favour of this, but of course we must also negotiate that politically on the basis of the study.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210641	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210642	Thank you. Was that another way of saying: yes, there should be no political interference? Or was it just another way of avoiding the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210658	That was one way of saying that I do not think that that is the main problem in the artistic institutions. I believe, in fact, that the Danish Parliament, in its present structure, has close access to influence the development of these artistic institutions. I don't imagine we're gonna be kidding. That's what makes it possible for us to go into this problem now too. I think that the issues we have also discussed here are more about getting some other competences into the board as well. But we have to negotiate that politically, so I cannot come to the conclusion here now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210730	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said earlier, the vote on the proposed amendments will be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210126210751	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 January 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
