ParlaMint-DK_20210305100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 186 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Act on Active Social Policy (Right to Training for Persons Who Work in the Mink Industry or Accompanying Industries within a Pool in 2021)). Louise Schack Elholm (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 200 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the conditions for obtaining approval as a general benefit association). Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB), Mona Juul (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 201 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the tax on property and gifts). Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 202 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on supporting legislation for the reduction of urban air pollution by municipalities). Mette Thiesen (NB), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 203 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on raising the rate of interconnection for private and free schools). Pernille Skipper (EL) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 204 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of shelters for men exposed to violence in Denmark). Rasmus Nordqvist (SF) and Carl Valentin (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 205 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an increased criminal framework for natural and fauna crime). Jette Gottlieb (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 206 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a corona supplement for benefit recipients) and motion for a resolution No. B 207 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to stop the reduction in the value of daily allowances). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 208 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the change of tax credit for quotas for trade unions). Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 209 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of establishing an exit centre in Greenland). Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen (V) et al.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 210 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the implementation of a full principle of road transport) and motion for a resolution No. B 213 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a rebooting team for rural areas). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 211 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the expulsion of criminal gang members and their immediate family and the expulsion of clan families with unsafe behaviour). Rosa Lund (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 212 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the inclusion of apprenticeships and internships in the assessment of whether the employment requirement for permanent residence has been met). Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB), Nase Khader (KF) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 214 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the holiday allowance system). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 204 is referred directly to the Equal Opportunities Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Member of the Folketing Torsten Gejl (ALT) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary decision to cancel examinations and exams in primary and secondary schools etc. B 130). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. The Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that a member of the Folketing, Karsten Lauritzen, has been appointed as deputy to the Labour Council instead of a member of the Folketing, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, for the remainder of the current term of office. The person concerned is then elected. On 12 May 2020, the Folketing elected 15 members to the Court of Justice and for each member two alternates. By letter dated 11 January 2021 to the Supreme Court, the Parliamentary Secretariat has clarified the order in which the Members of the Court elected by the Folketing have been elected, cf. Paragraph 36 of the Rules of Procedure. 1. The specified order will appear in the Parliamentary Times. It should be noted that the determination of the number of seats 5 and 7 are determined by a subsequent drawing of lots due to equal proportions of Steen, cf. Paragraph 36 of the Rules of Procedure. 1, 6. (Supreme Court of AppealAndreas ErikSupreme Albertsen of AppealClaus (Supreme Court of AppealHansen KarenLaila Court of AppealBrosbøl JacobSupreme Court of Larsen-JensenOle ChristensenGaardsted Court of Klint) (Karen Freddy of DamPer (Klavs Norup of Lauridsen) ErikVoss Court of AppealFlydtkjær NielsenTine Grete of HolmHolst HenriksenSupreme Court of Appeal) TrineGjellerup Court of AppealE. JensenKate Court of Appeal) (Supreme Thomsen of First Instance) KirstenTerkilsen Court of First InstanceHansen (Torben Klaus of Panduro Hækkerup) BrittaBenjamin Vestergaard of Huss InstanceBach (Kim Klaus of First JørgensenE. SusanneG. Eilersen of First InstanceAndersen (Supreme Court of First InstanceKarin MortenSupreme Court of First Kirstine) SørenPind Court of First Instance) (Maja Court of First Instance)
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100420	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100449	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100506	Thank you for that, President. In 2021, if you commit a hate crime based on the victim's disability, it is not part of the aggravating circumstance. Seems weird. If the crime is based on people's sexuality, ethnicity or religion, it will be covered, but not if the victim is disabled. It seems strange and intuitively wrong, and what this bill is about is correcting it. We therefore propose to extend section 81 of the Criminal Code. 6, so criminal acts that have a background to the victim's disability are also included. It is the case today that the paragraph is worded in such a way that if you commit crime against a defenceless victim, it can really be interpreted as being a case of someone who is disabled, but if you commit vandalism or make threats or anything else with a background to the victim's disability, it will not be covered today. It will be forward-looking. We have a problem with hate crimes in Denmark. Every year the National Police publishes a report, an inventory, and there you can see that there is an increase. We have had the debate here in Parliament about our Jewish minorities, who are experiencing increasing discrimination and, unfortunately, also crimes. When you look at the fine report of the Kingdom Police, you have listed what different motives there can be. There is an inventory of racist-motivated hate crimes, an inventory of religiously motivated hate crimes, and there is an inventory of hate crimes based on the victim's sexual orientation. In the future, there will also have to be an inventory of hate crimes based on the person's disability. It is only right and proper, and it is good that it will be so. The bill is part of the work that this government and that we, the Socialists, have taken on since we came to power, namely to work on the problem of hate crimes in Denmark in the broad sense, and therefore it is good that we also get this bill. We have also succeeded before Christmas in bringing together virtually the whole parliament about a common police agreement, where we have also emphasized this with hate crimes. There will be an additional training of our officers, a wide range of courses in relation to both the prevention and treatment of hate crimes. It is really, really important that the legislation is not alone, but is also followed by action, and it is. That is why it is a good day for us now, with this legislation, to bring something on the right track that should really be such intuitively. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the good bill put forward by the Social Democratic Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100805	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100811	Thank you for the good speech by the rapporteur. After all, this is a good legislative proposal that really strengthens the fight against hate crimes against people with disabilities. When we usually regulate section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, there is a parallelity with section 266b of the Criminal Code, and therefore the Radical Left will table an amendment to bring disability into section 266b of the Criminal Code. As the legal notes also state, what is involved at this stage means that, due to the disability of the person, reproach and degradation are not regulated by the criminal code. I just want to hear how the Social Democrats feel about creating a parallelity, so that we also get disabilities into section 266 b of the penal code.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100903	It is quite true that when you read the reflections in the bill here, you can see that parallelism is missing. That is why it is basically a very, very fair amendment which the Radicals are going to table, and which will intuitively be the right one. I can't speak on behalf of the government. I'm sure I'll leave that to the Attorney General. But on behalf of the Social Democrats, I can say that we will certainly look at this very, very positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100930	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100934	Thanks for the positive receipt. We look forward to hearing the Minister's statements later in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100949	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100953	I had exactly the same questions as Mr. Kristian Hegaard, and we have received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305100957	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101000	Thank you. I have a completely different question. After all, I am the disability rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and I made this very proposal on 7 February 2020, when the Social Democratic Party voted against it. Now it is so gratifying that we are dealing with this today. But I would really like to hear the rapporteur's reasons for not just voting it through when we dealt with this proposal in the last year with these intentions. Why was it that the government could not support it then?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101037	I am not a disability rapporteur, and I was not actually a part of the debate. But I would like to share the pleasure of the Danish People's Party that we now have a legislative proposal that will, of course, also bring disabled people under it in relation to hate crimes and with the amendment tabled by Radicals, if there is support for it also in relation to what we popularly call the racism clause. And then I think we should all just rejoice at all those who have contributed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101112	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101113	But I certainly welcome the fact that, under the auspices of the Legal Affairs Committee, I tabled this proposal, which the Social Democrats voted against. And then I took that proposal further in the police negotiations, and now it succeeds. This is, of course, very welcome, but I just think that the challenge as rapporteur here in the Danish Parliament is that we can put forward something that the government votes against, but so would like to put forward as their own. In fact, we could have done this a long time ago if the government had been sensitive to the resolution which had been tabled at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101150	I am sorry if it is my memory that is teasing me and I myself have been rapporteur on it. Then I can see that it seems a little silly to stand and refer to some others. So, of course, I'm sorry. It's not clear in memory. I think it's obvious to everyone, but that's how it's gonna make fun of us all. I would now just like to welcome the fact that we are here today, and we can all take part in the honour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101217	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101220	I do not want to hide the fact that this is a very good proposal. Others have asked about section 266b of the Penal Code, so I won't do that. I would rather ask about the report that came from the Institute of Human Rights, which shows that people with cognitive disabilities in particular are having difficulty in getting right in the judicial system, in other words, that in their case appeals are given four times as frequently as for people who do not have disabilities. Perhaps the Socialists have thought that we should do something about it, among other things. by saying that it must be a legal requirement to assess their need for aid in the context of a trial, so that they, what is to be said, are given the opportunity to be right as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101307	What we did with the police agreement, where the Danish People's Party was also involved, was actually doing a whole section about this hate crime thing. It was based on raising awareness about it. What you are asking is the more in relation to disability how is one's legal position in reality in relation to the assistance one needs? I am simply not keen enough on the discussion, I regret that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101340	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101341	I think the challenge is that the two things are linked. It is of course no use for us to have a new paragraph in the criminal code if it is not also available to some of these people, such as the United Kingdom. have mental and cognitive disabilities. Then access to the penal system is only more difficult, and then it ends with an indictment, because they have not been properly supported along the way. It also means that they do not actually receive compensation either, because it is something they must seek for themselves, and it is a huge challenge for them. Then perhaps the Social Democrats could say something about whether you would like to examine this issue further in order to safeguard these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101424	I would very, very much like to acknowledge the challenge. It is, of course, quite obvious and logical, namely that people who have challenges are, of course, more difficult to behave in relation to a system, and the system must be geared to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101440	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101444	Thank you. We will vote in favour of this bill and I will argue later that we will do so. If it becomes part of the legislative proposal because of an amendment by Radicals that we have to extend the paragraph of racism, a paragraph that we others would like to abolish, then the majority who decide that the great support that I suppose there will be for this bill is bound to shrink. Of course, for all of us who do not want a racism clause in this country, it is difficult to vote in favour of a bill extending the racism clause. So I would like to appeal to the Social Democrats here to think a little bit about whether it is not more important to secure a great deal of support for this bill than to conduct the red fight for the racism clause even further than it has already been conducted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101535-2	We'll think about that. And then you have to see how you can organize it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101548	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen? No. Then there are no further brief comments to the Social Democrat rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101621	Preben Bang Henriksen stumbles on his way up to the platform It's a very lucky day today, I can feel. Thank you for the floor. The proposal we are debating today is a proposal designed to ensure that crimes committed against the victim's disability are punished. I can hear from the questions that I think the attitude of the thing is so obvious in this proposal that we also have to take other elements with us if we are to have the time to pass. At least I've prepared for this, and I don't think it's very complicated. I can say at the outset that the honourable Member is honored, and it is actually Mrs Karina Adsbøl of the Danish People's Party who took up this element a year ago, and I must say that then I said in this Chamber that there was no reason to change it, because it was already covered by section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, and Paragraph 81, no. 11. I think it is now still so that, according to the law in force, the penalty should be tightened up, but I am a very fine person, so I will not engage in a major discussion with the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry believes that it is not covered, and of course I take note of that, and I can only say that then it is urgent to have it adopted, so we are 100% sure that the penal code is such that crimes committed against the victim's disability become an aggravating circumstance. So the Left can fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101756	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101801	Now I know that sir... Preben Bang Henriksen is a skilled lawyer and is therefore also well versed in the penal code. Today it is the case that there is a certain parallelism between the minorities or target groups, whether one will, as stated in section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, and section 266b of the Penal Code, and the government has among other things. another draft law in consultation, which envisages adding gender identity to both provisions. Does the rapporteur not agree that this bill adds disability to section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, that it would also make good sense to add it in parallel to section 266b of the Criminal Code, and would the Left support such an amendment from the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101849	Now I think my parliamentary group will be very pleased to see that proposal before I express my support for it. But I think it sounds sympathetic. I'd like to acknowledge that, sir. Kristian Hegaard, but I would like to see it before I take a position on it. That's not exactly what I was prepared for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101907	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101908	The consequence will be, if you do not add it in section 266b of the Penal Code, that disabled people will then be the only minority not in the racism clause, while gender identity, religion, belief, sexual orientation etc. Wouldn't it be a little strange if the disability was the only thing that didn't appear in both §81, no. 6, and § 266 b?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101938	Yes, that is also why I say that I have sympathy for it immediately, but that I do so completely per. I would like to see the proposal before I take a position on it. But I think so, sir. Kristian Hegaard says, sounds sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101949	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305101951	Thank you. We are also concerned that gender identity is being written in, and have put forward proposals on it in the past and I would say perhaps also wait a little impatiently for the proposal that should come from the government on it. I'd like to ask Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, on behalf of the Left, agrees that there is a problem with the way the paragraphs are formulated today. Well, we see very few convictions on the question of hate crimes. Now it is the case that the comments say that it may be a partial motive, but it is not reflected in practice anyway. We believe that in the Enhedslisten is a problem. How do you deal with it in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102036	I'm afraid I just didn't understand the question. As far as I could hear, it was asked whether we disagreed with the paragraphs. Well, I just have to get it more precisely... it's probably my fault... to be able to answer how the Left feels about it. In any case, I'm gonna have to make it clear in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102056	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102057	I also think that this debate somehow reflects the need for a greater discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs on what the challenges of hate crime are. For the Left must surely agree that it is a problem that there are so few convictions. Well, we see that there is a huge amount of darkness in relation to reviews, and when we look at what is being reported, there is very little that leads to judgment if it is a hate crime. So, as I see it, there is actually a little more political discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs about this. After all, it is both a question of disability that we are talking about today, but also gender identity, and we also have the concern in the Enhedslisten that it actually leads to very few convictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102146	I think that is something we should look at in detail in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I have to say that I understand the problem. I would say, then, that one thing is a notification, that another is that the prosecution raises an indictment. There may be different reasons for that and that something quite third is whether the courts pass judgment on the case. So, of course, what the cause of the few convictions is, but it requires a little more effort than the one we can give today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102214	There is one more brief comment, and it is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102218	Thank you. I would actually like to ask a question which I also put to the Socialist rapporteur, namely about people with disabilities and their access to the legal system, and perhaps I think that the rapporteur of the Left is aware of the problem that people with cognitive disabilities have difficult conditions in relation to legal proceedings. They simply do not understand what is happening, there are more frequent indictments in their cases, nor do they get the compensations to which they are actually entitled. Because this is something that must be sought after the trial has been concluded, and it is clear that it poses major problems in obtaining the necessary documentation. Does the Left agree that this is a problem? And will the Left help to look at that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102311	At any rate, I can say to the end that it should be the case that the advocacy lawyer ensures that compensation is sought in those situations. First of all, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt says, that it is evident that these people do not have their rights enforced to have their case tried in court, I can only say that, if that is the case and if the cause is the stated one, then it is something we have to look at. But again, I just have to have background material and have a little deeper review of what's up and down in this case before I decide. But it is certainly not the case that people with disabilities should have less rights than other people. I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102349	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102350	I really think it is fair enough for the rapporteur to have time to understand this. In fact, last spring or autumn, the Institute for Human Rights, I believe, produced a large report illustrating all the problems of this, and in fact they have examined a great many of these cases of compensation and found that this group simply has less access to compensation. And that is because the work of the advocacy lawyer ends when the trial is over and there is no such obligation to report to the Compensation Board. So it is a job that lies after the trial has been concluded, and it is clear that, if you have to obtain evidence and understand how to apply, it creates a problem for these groups, and we can at least see that they do not get the compensation. So I look forward to the continued dialogue with the Left rapporteur in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102441	You too, I could say. As far as seeking compensation is concerned, what Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt said was, in fact, correct, and unconcrete, what I said: the task of the Aid Attorney is right to end when the matter is over. I believe, however, that most help in seeking the compensation home. The problem is if you do not have a professional to do so, because then I have to promise that it can be difficult with the practice of the Compensation Board. There is much to illustrate. So we're gonna have to take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102509	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. May I ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur? The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102535	Thank you. And thank you, too, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen for the nice words. For February 7, 2020, we in the Danish Parliament discussed a proposal from the Danish People's Party, which was just about to amend the penal code, so the word disability was added in § 81, no. 6, so that it became a punitive circumstance if a criminal act has a background in the victim's disability. Unfortunately, the vote ended with the rejection of the Social Democracy, the Left and the Liberal Alliance. But we also brought this issue to the police talks that we had, and we can now welcome the fact that there is a broad agreement and a broad majority, because we have just reached a police agreement on this. When we dealt with the Danish People's Party's proposal, I also ended my speech by saying that if the Minister of Justice now thought well about changing his position, it would be gratifying. We tabled the proposal at the time, given that we had had a thematic meeting on hate crimes in the Committee on Gender Equality and in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. And in this draft law there are exactly the same arguments that we have also put forward. In general, hate crimes should have a political focus, and strong action must be taken against hate crimes, also in relation to their having to be reported and recorded to a greater extent. Just earlier, at that thematic meeting, hate crimes were also discussed, and it was also proposed by the stakeholders we had in mind that the police notification form should contain a check box where the police should tick if there was a hate crime. But we have also suggested that the government should take the initiative, namely that this should be included in the notification template. In the Danish People's Party, we think this is welcome, and of course we support our own proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102757	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102802	Thank you for that, and first of all thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for having tabled last year a motion for a resolution which is, of course, identical to the legislative proposal that is now before us, but with an addition to it here with the cross-checking form that the rapporteur mentioned. And some of what the rapporteur and I were trying to do about in that process was that there was a little resistance to this cross-checking scheme. Then perhaps we could not get the check-list out already then, we were willing to adopt it on that basis, but unfortunately, as you know, we did not manage to do so. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on what I have asked several rapporteurs on a number of occasions, namely what the Danish People's Party thinks about going even further, in relation to the fact that the issue of reproach and degradation due to the disability of the person today is not mentioned in the penal code. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party will also be involved in adding disability to section 266 b of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102902	So, first of all, I think that we should of course take it in committee because this is an agreement, and the elements we have concluded are what we are putting into effect today. So if you start to introduce, what can you say, other elements beyond what the parties to the agreement have agreed, then it can sometimes be a little problematic. But I think that we can either take it in committee or that Mr. Kristian Hegaard can make a proposal about it, and then we can take a position on it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102934	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305102935	That sounds promising to me. And I will of course accept this directly positive receipt from the Danish People's Party, because it is of course important in a democratic society that we have a zero tolerance of reproach and degradation of target groups, including people with disabilities. And I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with that, so it would be sensible if our legislation were to reflect it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103004	I have stood on this platform a great many times and fought for improvements in the area of disability in the social sphere, you might say now it is here under the rule of law. And I have also made several proposals on improvements in the area of disability. So I also feel as rapporteur that I need to see things, i.e. that I need to see things quite precisely in writing. In addition, the proposal as it stands is part of an agreement and what must be done in relation to other proposals is something that needs to be taken subsequently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103035	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103103	I would like to start by thanking the Minister of Justice for bringing forward this bill. This is a very good proposal, and it was also when Mrs Adsbøl tabled a resolution on the same subject. For it is clear that this will increase the protection of people with disabilities by increasing the penalties for threats or violence committed on the basis of the victim's disability. I would say that I did not actually quite believe it when I heard about it for the first time, i.e. that people with disabilities risk being subjected to hate crimes just because they have a disability. I think it is so disgusting that it is hard to believe that something like this is going on. But then I met my good radical colleague, Legal Rapporteur Kristian Hegaard, who is also sitting in this Chamber and who is in a wheelchair. He's just getting so many violent, disgusting and hateful messages that I'm starting to have the imagination to imagine that this is happening. Some of the things that people write to him on social media, and that he put up yesterday, are in this piece: get him just lifted up, he's gotta sit on the oxygen hose. You're sick in the head, I guess it's not just the legs that don't work. He's so retarded, he doesn't know what he's doing. Oh, no, he's never gonna leave. I mean, I'm really sick that you can behave like that. One simply does not deserve to experience that. I know Kristian Hegaard as a strong human being, and I have wilded upset that he is in politics, and I hope that there are more people with disabilities who will pursue their dreams and enter politics, but I can honestly understand if they do not want to. That is why I also think, not only because of Kristian Hegaard, but for all people with disabilities, that we should follow the answers from the National Police and the Institute of Human Rights, which points out that disability must of course also be lifted into the racism clause, so that such hateful statements are also included. I think that is a good idea, and I actually had plans to table amendments on it, but I understand that my radical colleague is doing it too, so it looks good, and it may sound as if it is something we can get through with. There is also much to point out that people with disabilities need support in the Danish legal system. According to the Institute for Human Rights, 15% of the population live in the country. of those with a greater disability the answer that they may or certainly have experienced harassment or a crime with hatred as a motive. And a much greater proportion of people with disabilities have been subjected to physical, psychological or sexual harassment than people who do not have a disability. It is therefore quite clear that there is a whole population here that we have to include when we talk about hate crimes, and it is time we addressed it in the legislation. Until now, people with disabilities have only experienced protection if the perpetrator exploited the person's defenceless condition, but I think it is a problem if the punishment is only tightened up because people with disabilities should be defenceless. There are, of course, cases where specific handicaps are exploited to commit fraud and fraud. I can, among other things. tell about a case I've come across recently where people associated with departments of autism in the Central Jutland Region have experienced getting their personal information lured out of them by scammers and telesellers so that they could abuse them to make purchases and subscriptions in their name. So there are many things going on that affect people with disabilities, and it is because they have a disability that they unfortunately become easy victims in the eyes of other people, and that is quite unacceptable, and therefore it is obvious that we are writing it into the penal code as an aggravating circumstance. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, we support this proposal and, of course, we also want improvements. And then I'm going to strike a blow for something again, compared to people with cognitive disabilities. It shows a report from the Institute of Human Rights... just has some trouble accessing our justice system. The study shows that the four times more frequent than people without disabilities find that there are indictments in their cases. They experience that they do not have access to compensation, and they experience that they lack some sort of translator in the judicial system. And it is no good for people, because they have a disability, to have less access to our legal system. So I actually think that's part of this proposal. If we now give them more rights and more opportunities with the criminal code, we will also have to ensure that it is possible to use these rights. So there's praise for the government here, and there's praise for the Danish People's Party that's a good proposal, but unfortunately you rarely get a SF on the platform, without he or she also just bringing a few improvements, so we look forward to the committee work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103615	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103620	I would just like to thank Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for her warm support. This applies not only personally, but also to the common cause that we are dealing with in the fight against hate crimes at all, because it should not be something that takes place in a democratic society where all people are equal. So thank you very much for that and for the daily cooperation that we always have. I appreciate that very much, so thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103644	I also thank you, and I am delighted that we can raise these matters together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103651	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305103756	Thank you for the floor, President. The bill is about making it a punishing circumstance whose crime is committed against the background of the victim's disability. This is done by adding the word disability to section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6 which today deals with ethnic origin, sexual orientation, belief or the like. The term similar cannot necessarily be interpreted as meaning that disability is part of the provision, and with this bill we are thus turning crimes committed against people with disabilities into hate crimes. This is a good bill, because with the bill we are strengthening the efforts on hate crimes against people with disabilities. That is why I would first like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution last year and thank the government for submitting the bill this year. However, as can be seen from the notes on the law, disability is not covered by the bill under Section 266b of the Criminal Code, which in popular terms is known as the racism clause and which means that, on the basis of a person's disability, it is not regulated by the Criminal Code. The Radical Left would like to change that and that is why we are going to table an amendment, namely that the word disability should be added to the racism clause. In fact, the government has had another draft law in consultation on the explicit inclusion, for example, of gender identity, gender expressions and gender characteristics in section 81 of the Criminal Code. 6, on penal circumstances, and also in section 266 b of the Penal Code. Therefore, it would be quite wrong if virtually all minorities other than disabled were then to be found in Section 266b of the Criminal Code. For there is today a parallelity between the two paragraphs, so that the groups of persons listed in section 81 no. 6, also appears in § 266b. That then disability should be the only thing not mentioned in both, I find it difficult to see the logic of. And is that necessary? Yeah, I'm afraid it is. Unfortunately, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt pointed out earlier, there is a great deal of fatigue and negative comments, among others. on Facebook and elsewhere. I will not repeat them, I will spare the House that, because there is no reason to repeat such atrocities several times. Sometimes you can become jealous of the Minister of Justice because he is not on Facebook, and I am concerned about how many people are abstaining from taking part in the debate on the basis of hateful messages. We must put an end to such hateful speech, and it must face zero tolerance in a democratic society. We must add the word disability to the racism clause, because in a democratic society everyone is equal and must meet as such, both in words and in action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104116	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104122	I have to say that I think it is really, really a pity that the broad consensus on punishing people who commit crimes against people with disabilities, because they have disabilities, has to be forced on by a red agenda that we should have extended the racism clause. In red parties, we know very well that we are a number of parties having problems with the racism clause. Let me illustrate why. According to the racism paragraph, it is illegal to insult people because of their religion, but not illegally to insult people because of their political beliefs. What do we do when a religion is both religion and political conviction, for example. Islam? Why should it be okay to reproach one because he is a Communist or a Liberal or a Social Democrat, but not if he is an Islamist and according to his religion has some political beliefs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104221	I think it is a pity that it is considered a so-called red agenda to add the word disability to the racism clause, as it is not currently regulated by the penal code to make insulting or degrading statements about people with disabilities. I think that should be a common democratic agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104244	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104245	It can't be sir. Kristian Hegaard does not know that it is primarily red parties who think that the racism clause is absolutely fantastic, while part of us blue think that for reasons of principle it is problematic to restrict people's freedom of expression in relation to certain groups with certain characteristics. It can't be sir. Kristian Hegaard unknown, and therefore I am surprised that Mr. Kristian Hegaard answers bypassing the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104313	Freedom of speech is intact, there is no doubt about that. To a large extent, we must say what we want in the public debate. What you just have to assess is: does it serve the democratic debate to reproach or demean, or can you put forward your views in other ways? I think we could agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104334	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104414	Thank you. It is always serious when someone is exposed to a There is always at least one victim in such cases, and they must live with what they have been exposed to for the rest of their lives. Fortunately, we live in a country where the majority of the population do not have to fear for their own safety when they walk the streets or when they interfere in the public debate or when they do their work quite commonly. Unfortunately, however, we have people who are more often exposed to attacks, threats and other abuses. Minorities in our society do not have the same security as others do. If you are brown in the skin, there is a risk of a racist-motivated attack. If you belong to a sexual minority, you're extra exposed. And the same goes for wearing a scarf or a calot or a star of David. But that also applies if you have a disability. That is why I am very pleased and proud that today we are dealing with a government bill that ensures that people with disabilities are better protected. I am also very pleased that this is a proposal that is broadly supportive of it, after all, stemming from the agreement on the police economy reached in December. When a minority person is subjected to a hate crime, it is not only the one victim that is felt for life. It affects larger groups of people who need to think twice a day before taking part in the public debate and carefully consider how they are walking on the street. This simply means that a part of the population cannot enjoy the freedom that the rest of us can enjoy. It can keep these people from fully exploiting their rights to live on an equal footing with the majority if they are to live with the fear of hatecrimes in a society that has not taken the threat seriously in the past. The introduction of disability into the penal code is certainly a step in the right direction, but we are not yet in the right direction. We also believe in the Enhedslisten that it should be part of the racism clause. And it is not a restriction or an attack on being allowed to express itself. It is a guarantee that everyone can express themselves. It is a guarantee that we will protect those people who are today abstaining from taking part in the public debate because they will be exposed to threats that they will have the opportunity to express themselves. I believe that it is the biggest problem of freedom of expression that there are people today who are abstaining from taking part in the public debate because they are being sucked up. We have seen many cases in which it would seem obvious that it was a hatecrime that they have not been dealt with in this way by the prosecution when the cases have finally been brought to justice. The most recent example is the month of February, when a woman in her 30s, with a scarf unmotivated, was attacked in a parking lot in front of a building market by an older couple. At the same time as the threats and violence that the woman was subjected to, it was shouted that she should go home, that she was • and now I regret the use of language, but it is a quote • a leprechaun. This information had police witnesses who could confirm, but despite the testimony it was in the eyes of the police just an ordinary assault that everyone could have been exposed to on their way to their car after a trip to Harald Nyborg. After the great ride in the medieval mill and after a good job by the defense attorney changed the prosecution's attitude. And I think that we have a problem here: firstly, that our police, which I usually have a lot of confidence in, are not equipped well enough to deal with hatecrimes and hatecrimes cases, and secondly, that we have a legislative problem. And in the Enhedslisten we would really like it to be strengthened, so that an attack can be racist or driven by hatred, can also count as a partial motive. It simply needs to be clarified in the comments and it is a work that I hope we can address once we have completed this bill which Enhedslisten can warmly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104858	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305104904	No one in this society should put up with threats, and therefore it is forbidden to threaten other people, and it is a ban that everyone in this Parliament supports. That is why it makes no sense when Mrs Rosa Lund describes her position in such a way that she is in favour of being able to participate in the public debate without being exposed to threats, because we all do. What we are talking about here is what Mrs Rosa Lund called swindling. We are all exposed to that too. I am the victim of swindling by people voting on the Enhedslisten, and I assume that Mrs Rosa Lund is also suffering from swindling from people voting for the Liberal Alliance, and we will be because of our political conviction, and that is, of course, okay. That is why it has to be said that taking part in the public debate leads to becoming a pig, whether you have a disability or not, whether you are black in the skin or white in the skin, whether you are a communist or a liberal. So we have to accept that, because that is the way it is with freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105012	Yes, and then the discussion is, of course, about how we best ensure that freedom of expression, how we protect each other best when we participate in the public debate. 'Cause, of course, I'm walking like sir. Ole Birk Olesen strongly believes that we all agree that it is not okay to threaten anyone to remain silent. However, I think we should be brave enough to look at our legislation and look at how we can protect people. And now we just know that people with minority backgrounds, women and people with disabilities are refraining from taking part in the public debate because they are being threatened. That is why I think the discussion is about how we protect those people best, and that is Mr. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is welcome to disagree with you. There's probably a reason why Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and I are members of each of our parties, each at its end of the spectrum.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105103	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105104	The first time it could be a statement, but when Mrs Rosa Lund does it again and talks about her being aware now that Mrs Rosa Lund is presenting it as if the disagreement is about something other than what it is about. Everyone is forbidden to threaten. Everyone's in favour of it. This is about whether to accept in the public debate that people talk degradingly, condescendingly or insultingly about you, and that must be accepted in the public debate. Mrs. Rosa Lund will be exposed to it, and that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105151	Now I kind of started my answer to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's question of saying that we were all agreed on is not right, but there was Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was busy sitting down from his chair and talking up here, even though his microphone wasn't on. I think the discussion must then be about what we do about it, and there is Enhedslisten's proposal for one of the things we can do about it, to write disability into the racism clause. It is a proposal for what we can do about it. We also have another proposal on what we can do about it, and that is to update our penal code so that it fits the digital reality in which we live, because, like Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will probably be subjected to threats and harassment on the Internet, so will I. Kristian Hegaard is doing what I know that Mrs Pernille Vermund is doing it, and I know that all sorts of other people who are taking part in the public debate on the Internet are doing it. So the disagreement is about what we do about it, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, and not whether it exists or not, that is how I see it. But if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has changed his mind and agrees with the Enhedslisten's proposal, there is no disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105251	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105255	Thank you very much for the good rapporteur's speech and the cooperation that we have in general on hate crimes and such things and, incidentally, many other issues. I just want to know if the rapporteur does not agree with what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said that it is easy to have a political debate in a democratic society where there is a lot of criticism, where there is harsh criticism, where all the issues are debated, but that it does not necessarily serve the debate, that it is insulting, that it is degrading to certain target groups and minorities. It's like what this is all about. It is not about the fact that there are issues or something that should not be discussed, but that we can agree that there is something that we do not accept, and it is discrimination, it is contempt, it is reproach, and that we can easily organise an in-depth democratic debate without such a thing happening. We must show zero tolerance for this, so that there is room for everyone to express their voice and not to be worried that they will be greeted with hateful speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105354	I very much agree that one of the most important things is that we can have a free and democratic conversation. This is also one of the reasons why Enhedslisten was the party in charge of abolishing the blasphemy clause. And it is because we feel this way in the Enhedslisten that we think the legislation should protect people and not gods. But it has also helped us to have a debate on this kind of thing, and I think that is very positive. What we are concerned with in the Enhedslisten is how we ensure that everyone has the opportunity to take part in this debate without having to be faced with threats, and that is so, regardless of sex, what sexual orientation, religion, etc. You have. That's what we're preoccupied with in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105436	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105437	I also know that the rapporteur, like me, is very concerned that we will have a representative democratic debate and a representative democratic exercise where people can be chosen. Does the rapporteur, as I do, meet people on a daily basis who are somewhat careful to write and say what they think because they can see that the insulting and degrading speech that sometimes takes place in other comments, elsewhere, runs completely off the table, thus helping to restrict people's freedom of expression and that it is therefore important to take a strong stand against that speech in a democratic society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105513	I meet these people, too. But we also have studies that support it and show that, for example, there are. women are abstaining in municipal politics because they are afraid of the threats and hateful speech they will face. I think that is a democratic problem. After all, I think that the problem concerns both equality and freedom of expression, but it is above all a problem of freedom of expression. And I really think that is where the fight for freedom of expression is today: how do we ensure that everyone has the opportunity to express their opinions, to participate in the democratic debate? How do we ensure that no one is threatened with silence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105548	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105550	Thank you. I simply have to follow up where Mr. Ole Birk Olesen escaped because the rapporteur continues to involve threats in this, and that is not what the racism clause is about. It is about degradation and reproach on the basis of a number of parameters, and when one is against the racism clause, it is not because one is against threats being illegal or libel being illegal, it is because one says: in an open society with freedom of expression and hopefully also a free debate, we must be able to tolerate more, because we believe that the more we can express ourselves in words and what to say, with words and not with swords, the more one wants to mitigate the risk of banning people from getting rid of their bile, if one can say so, which can sometimes be insulting, degrading, offensive. So does the rapporteur not see that in an open and free society it is a gift that we can get rid of our bile without threatening, without acting liberating, but perhaps offensive, perhaps degrading, perhaps insulting? Rather than doing what you do elsewhere, that is to say forbidding it, and then you end up having a pressure cooker that risks boiling into violence and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105714	I think that Danish society is a society in which we can speak freely. I believe, as I said before, that the biggest problem is that not everyone can speak freely and that they are the ones who are being threatened with silence. The Commission on Freedom of expression, Mrs Pernille Vermund, also concludes that the paragraph of racism does not apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105739	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105741	But the racism clause is not about threats, that is, it is simply not what we are discussing. What we are discussing is: are there special groups in society that should not be offended? Is it worse for an African to have African curly hair than for me to be blonde or the rapporteur to be redhead? So, where is the limit to how this violation regime is going to develop our society in a direction in which I fear that we will end up with a minefield of areas of violation, which means that we do not really know how to deal with each other anymore if we do what the rapporteur proposes? On the other hand, I believe in development. I believe that, when we have had social media long enough, we are developing a better culture there than we have today, and than we had when it started, in the same way as has been done in civil life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105835	I do not believe that social media culture is going to develop in a better direction of itself. I think we need to regulate. But let it go. The racism clause protects people in Denmark. I think that's wise. I do not think this is an obstacle to freedom of expression. Nor do I think, Mrs Pernille Vermund, that we are living with an infringement regime. So, I have to say that I have seen that it is primarily politicians on the wing of Mrs Pernille Vermund who are being very offended by things. But let it go. I don't think you're tyrannising on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105911	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305105914	I simply think that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mixes it all up in a light bulb. I mean, we need to protect freedom of expression. We must safeguard the free word and that we can speak and we can speak as we please. At the same time, however, Enhedslisten says that they do not actually mean that at the heart of what Mrs Rosa Lund says. Well, there are stupid people everywhere; that's the way it is. But where is Rosa Lund, when you can say Danes are harassed when Danes are harassed? I'm thinking Arab boys who bother too. Then Enhedslisten is silent. I think that the Enhedslisten is simply mixing things up in relation to the legislation that we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110013	Well, I can reassure Mrs Karina Adsbøl that in the Enhedslisten we believe right inside our heart that freedom of expression is absolutely essential. Exactly why, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, it was the Enhedslisten who proposed that the blasphemy clause be abolished. So Mrs Karina Adsbøl can take it easy. And when we stand here and come up with the proposals we make in relation to writing disability into the racism clause and in relation to updating our penal code so that it better protects against harassment and threats on the Internet, it is precisely because we want everyone to dare to stand up and say their opinion in the public debate. Then I just have to arrest Mrs Karina Adsbøl that we should not take it seriously when someone is harassed. In fact, we take this very seriously. Mrs Karina Adsbøl can go back and follow the debates of this summer about young men being attacked and filmed on mobile phones, and then Mrs Karina Adsbøl can see Mrs Rosa Lund's statements in this context. That would be a call from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110122	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110123	Thank you for your invitation. I'll see if I have time to look through it all. But it is because it seems that Mrs Rosa Lund, as I see Mrs Lund's speech from the platform today, does not think that we all have freedom of expression, that is, that there must be separate relationships for some, because they do not dare to stand up. Freedom of expression is important, and we all cherish democracy, at least here on my wing, but I just don't understand it when Rosa Lund wants to censor. I mean, as I understand Mrs Rosa Lund, she wants to censor freedom of speech. Everyone is against threats and will report threats. When people are exposed to threats, you have to make the reviews that need to be made. So I just don't quite understand where Rosa Lund is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110219	I will always defend freedom of expression, and I will always safeguard the rights of minorities, the right of women and people with disabilities to interfere in the public debate, and they are not doing so today because they are being threatened with silence, and I think that is a problem of freedom of expression for which I think it would be very nice if the Danish People's Party would also join the fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110244	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110311	The Minister of Justice proposes with this bill to amend section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, so that it becomes a punishing circumstance if a criminal offence has a background in the victim's disability. All forms of hate crimes are unacceptable, whether they originate from ethnic origin, belief, sexual orientation or the like, which today are penal circumstances, according to section 81 of the Criminal Code. 6. The Conservative People's Party believes that criminal acts can rightly be equated with the victim's disability with the aforementioned. It disgusts when you hear stories about people who are subjected to criminal acts that have a background in their disability. We have studied several examples here recently in relation to the radical rapporteur, and that is deeply reprehensible. The Conservative People's Party is always on the side of the victims. We believe that our legal system, on too many points, pays far too much attention to the perpetrator. We owe it to the victims who have been subjected to a criminal act on the basis of their disability that they are taken seriously and that they will not be denied their sense of justice. We do this by including it as aggravating circumstance in section 81, no. 6, and not in § 266b. The problem with § 266b is that the political struggles are transferred to the courts, and they must be conducted elsewhere than in the courts, and then it is more about groups than about individuals, so it is appropriate in our view that it comes under section 81, no. 6. That is why we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110518	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110541	Today we are debating a bill to tighten up the penalties for crimes based on the victim's disability. With the proposal, disability must be included as a penalty factor in the criminal code. As mentioned in a previous debate in which we dealt with Mrs Karina Adsbøl and DF's motion for a resolution for the same purpose, crimes against persons with disabilities are already covered by the grounds for punishment under Paragraph 81, no. 11 on the exploitation of the defenceless position of wrongdoers. This will typically be the case for example. violence against people with disabilities. Conversely, for example, vandalism or threats directed against persons with disabilities may not be an exploitation of the defenceless position of an injured person and thus be subject to the current punishment. I am aware of no evidence that crimes based on the victim's disability are on the increase, but if the government considers that the law does not adequately protect people with disabilities from real hate crimes, we naturally support both the proposal and the intention behind the proposal. In today's debate, I understand, unfortunately, that the Social Democrats are open to supporting an amendment by the Radical Left, which involves a change to section 266b, in daily terms called the paragraph of racism. New citizens are opposed to the racism clause, which is why we cannot vote for its extension, but if the Minister for Justice, if the Radical Left amendments are voted through, will help to split the bill, we will vote in favour of the original proposal and against the proposal to amend the racism clause in the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110733	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110739	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It was just in relation to the debate we have just had, including here with the Enhedslisten. After all, we have not really heard Mrs Rosa Lund in her speech rejecting the fact that for example. Some of Enhedslisten's members burn a fire with politicians, for example. Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen or some others. Then I just want to hear New Citizens, if New Citizens don't wonder, now that Enhedslisten really cares about it in relation to hate crimes and criminal acts, but then don't mention what they themselves do to their opponents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110821	In general, I have a bit of difficulty with the fact that you have to go and distance yourself from the actions of others, but that, when it is your own, that is either party members or people you represent, then of course it is a different matter. There is strong evidence to me, when we speak not only hate crimes, but also politically motivated violence and vandalism, that there is a violent over-representation of people on the extreme left among those who commit such things. This is, of course, a problem which I hope everyone will not only reject but take responsibility for resolving. Of course, that responsibility is easier to take if it is your own.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110909	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is ready. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305110935	Thank you for the bill that we will be voting for. We agree with the intentions behind the bill. Basically, you could say that two of your crimes have to give the same punishment, but the truth here is that it's not your crimes when you dive under the surface. For what is an act of violence against, for example. a random person in the night life is not the same crime as if he were committing an act of violence against a person motivated by that person's particular things, for example. whether the person has a disability, whether the person is homosexual, or whether the person is black in the skin. These are two different crimes, for the one crime, the one that is random and against a person in the nightlife, is only a crime against that person in the nightlife. The crime against the person who has a disability, is black in the skin or is homosexual, is a crime against society as a whole, because with that crime you want to make life insecure for anyone who has the qualities that justify your crime. We are creating a general insecurity in society for all people who have these qualities, and that is why we can justify a higher penalty. I mean, the crime has a more far-reaching character than if it were just against a single person. That is why we support the amendment of the law with the harsher punishment for people who commit crimes against disabled people on the grounds that they are disabled. A great deal of today's debate has unfortunately also been about the fact that, with the Radical Left at the head of the Danish Parliament, one would like to strike another blow for the so-called racism clause, that is, where people are said to be insulting and to speak demeaningly and so on. about each other in this society, we accept that because we have freedom of expression, but that if you do it about people who have a particular religion or race or a certain sexuality and now that is what you want to introduce a disability, then you must not anyway. We are opposed to that paragraph and therefore we are also opposed to extending it. And if some people put forward a proposal that we should keep that paragraph but remove one of the groups, we would vote in favour of it, even if we did not want to remove the paragraph completely, because then it became less restrictive than it is today. That is why we must go the opposite way when some propose to add a group, because then it becomes more restrictive than it is today. Well, it's not that you're like Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard has tried to imply from the platform that we think it is a good idea to speak insultingly about other people. So when Mr. Kristian Hegaard asks whether we do not agree that we should not speak so uglylyly about other people, so the answer is that yes, we agree, and we should not do so. But that is not everything we should not do that we should ban. There are thousands of things that should not be done, but we do not prohibit it anyway, because we like to accept that if there is to be a ban, then the explanatory statement must be more than that one does not like it. Then the explanatory statement must be that other people are suffering badly, that they are restricting their freedom and so on. And in my optics, you don't have the freedom to be free from people talking ugly about you. You don't have that freedom. You have the right to talk ugly about other people. I do not think it should be done unless it is very justified, but you have the right to do so. It is part of freedom of expression that you can also say things that some people do not think are good. That is why I would appeal not to destroy the broad support for the proposal that there should be tougher penalties for people who commit crimes against people with disabilities, because they are disabled........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111407	The rapporteur started by saying that the same crimes must be punished in the same way. A little wonder, then, that at the time the rapporteur spoke a lot in favour of the ghetto package, in which a break-in on Strandvejen is to give half as much punishment as a break-in in a certain residential area. But peace be to it. That's not what this bill is about. What I would like to ask, on the other hand, and which I regret a little, is that the Liberal Alliance does not support the addition of disability to the racism clause, because does the rapporteur not agree that we can easily have a democratic debate with a lot of criticism and with a lot of opportunity to develop different positions with a deep intensity, but that there must also be limits to reproach, degradation, etc., if it can directly prevent some from taking part in the public debate and thus restricting the freedom of expression of a number of people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111508	I said that the starting point is that there must be the same penalty for the same crime. And then I told you why it's different in this case, because I don't think it's the same crime. I can also spread on the proposal for a ghetto package and double sentence in ghetto areas. That is because there is a major disorder in those areas and, in order to protect the people who live there, it is necessary to use tougher means. There's not much crime in Charlottenlund, but there's a lot of crime in Vollsmose. We have to get rid of that, and that is why we have adopted it. You just have to accept, even if we don't like it, that there are people who talk ugly to each other in this society. There are people who speak uglyly to Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard, and it is not because he is disabled, but because he is radical. There are others who speak uglylyly to Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard, because he's handicapped, and it's very ugly. Surely you shouldn't do that. But those of us who protrude in the public debate are faced with ugly talk, and we have to accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111625	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111626	This is not the only place we have legislation for this kind of thing. We also have this in the European Convention on Human Rights, where there is also an article on harassing and hateful speech. So, I just want to know if Mr. Chandler... Ole Birk Olesen then at least supports what is in the European Convention on Human Rights on Hateful Speech and Harassment, because if we at least agree on that, then we are a step along the way. So I just want a very clear statement from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen on whether he supports all the articles of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111701	I have not been read out what the European Convention on Human Rights says. I note that it is not illegal to remove the racism clause in Denmark, even under the European Convention on Human Rights. We are in favour of this. We think that is justified. We do not want to extend the racism clause. On the contrary, we will help to reduce it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111724	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and that is how we are throughout the rapporteur's line, which means that the next speaker is the Minister of Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305111742	Thank you for a good debate and thank you for the broad support for the proposal. In fact, it is quite incomprehensible, and it is almost in the real sense of the word incomprehensible, that people in Denmark in the year 2021 are exposed to threats, violence, degradation and all sorts of other things, simply because they have a physical disability. What kind of people are taking themselves to a place where, because another person is physically handicapped, you think it's okay to step on it extra? What is going on in the head, if at all, on people who might do it? This is completely incomprehensible, and it is totally unacceptable, and that is why, of course, it is also in as broad a consensus as we do that I think it is all the parties of the Danish Parliament that will support the fact that it must of course be a punishing circumstance if, just because a person is disabled, you step on it. This is completely insane. It doesn't belong anywhere. It doesn't belong anywhere for the victim. It does not belong anywhere for the potential other victims, but it does not belong anywhere in relation to what kind of society we want to be. So thank you for the broad support for the proposal that lies here. In fact, I believe that the debate has been running around all sorts of other things. In fact, I think it was the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen, who said the most right thing in his rapporteur's speech, is: we agree on this so much that we have to think of something else to talk about. And as the good politicians we are, we have done so in large measure for the last little hour and a half. However, thank you for the debate and thank you for the broad support for the proposal that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112017	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief remarks • it is not to know whether it is for the bill or otherwise; it will appear. The first brief remark is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112027	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister two things. One thing is what has changed for the Minister of Justice since we dealt with the proposal that the Minister of Justice voted against the proposal then came from the Danish People's Party. The second point is that we have reached an agreement now that amendments are being discussed here in Parliament today and this is part of the police agreement, and so I really want to hear the Minister of Justice: does the Minister of Justice intend to change a bill if there is no broad political support in relation to an agreement that has been reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112113	These are two good questions, and I very much hope that time will allow me to answer them, and otherwise I would very much like to give further answers to them. The motion for a resolution tabled last year was not against the substance; on the contrary, I said at the time, and one can check this out: I agree with the authors of the motion that crimes motivated by the victim's disability should be regarded as hate crimes and that the provisions of the criminal code should therefore mention disability; that is something I want to go ahead with. That's why we're here today. And so it is because the rapporteur has been very active in this matter. God knows that and that is good. What I was against at the time, and which I am still against, was that one wanted to have a checkbox so that in all more than 300,000 reports a year, the police would have to check whether it was a hate crime or not. So whether bicycle theft was a hate crime or not. If we now assume that it took just one minute for each of those reviews, it was 5,000 of the police's working hours that would be spent on this, which I thought was completely out of proportion, and that is why we did not support the resolution at that time. Now my speaking time has passed, so the second question I will come back to in the next round if I have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112220	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112221	The Minister will have the opportunity to do so. However, we tabled an amendment in the Danish People's Party to respond to the Minister for Justice's request during that legal procedure. However, the Minister may reply to the second question: when you enter into an agreement, including a police agreement, of which this is a part, does the Minister change that agreement bypassing the circle of agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112247-2	If that reasoning were to prevail, the Danish People's Party should have refrained from tabling the motion for a resolution that penalty rebates, according to section 82 of the Criminal Code, no. 13, should include all penalty rebates, including cross-conventions. After all, this was not too good for the proposers' party to do so. So if this is contrary to the agreement, the other was also contrary to the agreement. So we need to keep our minds clear. And then you have to pay attention to what the agreement says. The agreement states: "The negotiators also note that a bill is expected at the beginning of 2021 aimed at including hate crimes against people with disabilities under Section 81 of the Criminal Code. Indeed, nowhere in the agreement has we dealt with the fact that criminal action should not be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112341	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112343	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the good speech and for the submission of this bill. This is an important step in preventing and combating hate crimes against people with disabilities, and it is of course also particularly important after we acceded to the Convention on Disability in 2009, which requires us to provide further protection for people with disabilities. That is why, of course, I would like to hear how the government views the Radical Left's amendments concerning the creation of parallelism, so that we get it into section 266b of the Criminal Code, so that we send out a clear signal that the degradation and insulting of people with disabilities is, of course, also unacceptable in a democratic society and that it must meet with zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112436	I think it makes sense that there is parallelity between §81 no. 6, which we are currently discussing, and § 266 b. Now, because it is called the § 266b paragraph of racism, there has been much discussion about whether it would be too wrong to make this extension of the paragraph of racism. I just think that we should deal with what the reality is. If the change that I understand the Radical Left is going to bring about is going to be implemented, we will say that those who, by their statement, threaten, insult or degrade a group of people because of their disability must be punished, and there is a question to be asked: do I think that if a group of people is degraded because of their disability, it is worthy of punishment? Yes, I think it is, and that is why I think it is a relevant amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112537	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112538	That's great. It's spring, it's March, it's Friday, it's soon weekend. For many reasons, it is a good day and so I would like to thank the Minister for that statement. I look forward to further consideration, and the Radical Left warmly thanks for the support of the government for the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112559	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112603	Thank you. We, like other bourgeois parties, are sorry that we support the amendment and make it part of this bill. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I hope that the Minister will help to split the proposal so that we can vote in favour of the original proposal by a broad majority, probably the whole of the Folketing. And then those parties who think that the racism clause is good in a democracy with freedom of expression and what else we have can vote in favour of that part of the proposal which is the amendment. Will the Minister help with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112643	I feel like this: when we were doing this, and we did this in common with the fact that we increased the penalty for covid crimes, we agreed in the last estimate that it should also include expulsions. We were very much for that together. The Enhedslisten was very opposed to that. Now, unfortunately, Mrs Rosa Lund is not here, but at the time I said: I think that the Enhedslisten should be allowed to mark their position and could vote for the large part and avoid voting for it here. At the time, the Danish People's Party said: we will not be involved in this. Now I have the opportunity to force the Danish People's Party to a place as unpleasant as they forced another party. I didn't think it was a good idea back then. That's why, of course, it would be uncomfortable for me to behave like that. That is why my approach will be: parties must be allowed to vote in accordance with their convictions so that voters can see it. So, if it is technically possible to do so with amendments that first need to be drafted and then separated into special legislative proposals, then I think it is good style to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112750	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112751	Thank you. I was just beginning to think that the conclusion was different. But I'm glad I don't have to go out and say that now the Minister of Justice has become just like everyone else. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112808	I don't know if it's good or bad to be like everyone else. I think I'm a lot like all the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112814	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister for Justice, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. I propose that this bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112835	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305112857	Thank you to the authors of the Radical Left for tabling the motion for a resolution. I would like to begin by saying that I have a great deal of sympathy for the motives behind the proposal. We must constantly focus on how our legal system treats the victims who have been the victims of a crime. Victims must see that the justice system does them justice, and they must be restored so that they can move on with their lives. The current problem arises from a very specific and quite outrageous matter, namely the so-called umbrella case, where up to a thousand young people chose to share some of the insulting videos of two young people under the age of 18. The assessment of the judicial system has shed a sharp light on the legal dimension of the case. Because if there's not just one perpetrator, but more than a thousand, how big is the tort allowance? The proposers propose that in cases of digital infringements, compensation should be paid to a newly created victim fund for digital infringements. This must be done in cases where wrongdoers have already been awarded compensation from other sentenced persons in the same case complex, which is considered to compensate for the total suffering suffered by them, i.e. the compensation for the humiliation that has taken place. In addition, it is proposed that it should be regarded as a new crime in the context of damages law if in future cases there is a sharing on the web of already widespread material. In that case, it shall give the injured person the right to the reimbursement of tort again. Finally, it is proposed that the penalty for digital infringements be fined DKK 1,000 to be paid to the proposed victim fund. The reimbursement shall be granted where there has been an unlawful infringement affecting a person's sense of self-interest and honour. The compensation shall be measured when there is an infringement to compensate for. However, when you have been compensated for the total suffering suffered as a result, you are no longer measured in compensation and that assessment is up to the courts. This is a consequence of the Supreme Court's first judgment in the umbrella case complex, in which the Supreme Court noted that the determination of compensation for the wrongdoers should be made taking into account that other persons could also be required to pay compensation. It was also noted that in future cases account must be taken of any compensation already granted. In the second judgment of the Supreme Court in the umbrella case complex, the Supreme Court found that the compensation granted had to be regarded as compensation for the total tort. In other words, this meant that there are cases in which some perpetrators do not have to pay compensation because the ceiling has been reached. It may therefore be a coincidence who ends up paying compensation or not, and I think that is obvious to everyone is neither fair nor appropriate. As I said in my reply of November last year to the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, digital violations raise some particular issues that we should look at, and I intend to do so. One of the challenges is that there are typically many perpetrators involved in this type of case. In addition, digital violations are peculiar because any sharing of a video or image involves a new violation, just as any sharing at the same time enables further dissemination. This means that the infringement period for the wrongdoers can, of course, be very long. The wrongdoers may thus risk having to walk for a long time and fear that the material will be spread out on the web. In addition, it says that each division, at least from a strict legal perspective, does not in isolation add to the wrongdoing further violations beyond what results from the overall spread. That is why we need to look at the actual level of reimbursement to ensure that there is a uniform level of remuneration. And we must look at how we will ensure in future that it will not be by chance who will end up paying compensation for tort. The proposal means that we must set up a completely new victim fund, and that is one of the places where I think we should work on the proposal, which, incidentally, I think is sensible in a number of ways, because we already have the victim fund and thus set up a system with which this could be con ceived very sensibly. I very much agree with the authors of the motion that no perpetrator should be able to escape cheaper because he does not have to pay compensation. It is obvious that this is not fair and, therefore, a model involving the payment of an amount to the existing victim fund can be a good solution. But I think that is something we should look at in more detail in terms of how it should be organised. And even if it is a sympathetic proposal, I do not think it is appropriate that we should now take a look at what the system should be like. The proposers require the government to submit a bill during the current parliamentary year. A bill like this will require fairly thorough consideration, among other things. on the level of reimbursement and on the handling of any requirements arising from the sharing of the material. And in order to ensure the quality of legislation and to ensure that we come all the way around, it is a job that may not be over in a few months. And that is why I think we should accept that this legislative proposal should not be included in this session, but in the next session. So the government's position here will be: Shouldn't we agree that the issues addressed properly we are putting a work in hand to deal with in the direction that I have given here and in this way get to grips with something that we can all hopefully follow along about, or in each dish very broadly, in a way that we will solve the problem that has been pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113530	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113533	Thank you to the Minister for his speech, and thank you for the very positive statement in relation to the proposals here. After all, there are four proposals, as the Minister outlined in his speech. And I think it might sound like a sensible approach to place a digital victim fund under an existing victim fund, as long as one can say, in some way limit that amount and be sure that it will then go to the prevention of digital violations. Then it doesn't matter which place it is. If the purpose and way of doing so will be the same, I can warmly support it, so I would just like to know if that means that the Minister can really support all four proposals that are there. Then you can always do it in a report or in a later session etc. However, I just want to know whether this, if we place the digital victim fund under the existing victim fund, means that the minister can support all the proposals in the resolution here as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113632-2	Basically, I think this is a relevant issue, and it may even be that there are some other elements that we need to address during the course of the treatment. I think the whole thing about seeing the victim fund together makes sense. It may be that, as I hear Mr. Kristian Hegaard, must say that there is the Victim's Fund, and that then there is an area of the Victim's Fund which is concentrated on digital violations. It may also be that we really want to spend some of the money that then comes in connection with the digital violations, which goes to the Offer Fund and is used for various activities, for some of the other work that the Offer Fund does. That is one of the things I think we should consider. But I am basically of the opinion that this is a relevant issue which has been raised and which arises from this umbrella complex and which I believe we will actually be able to deal with fairly broadly politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113729	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113730	Thank you for your positive statement. What we are still waiting for is some recommendations. Often when we discuss this issue, it is referred to as an inter-ministerial working group in this area that makes some recommendations or whatever. As far as I could understand, they were supposed to be here in the autumn. That's about. 3-6 months ago, depending on when in the fall it was supposed to be. So can the minister tell me when they're coming? Are you okay? One gets the impression that it is a jelly jar, which I do not think it is, because it is quite an important area. So when is something really happening, and why is it constantly being postponed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113812	No, it's definitely not a jelly jar. We have also had the opportunity, together with the other legal rapporteurs, to discuss the many different aspects of digital infringements, which merely illustrate the complexity of the work being done. But the work of the two working groups, on the one hand, on children and young people and, on the other hand, on those who work more widely, on those who work more widely. There is no delay in it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113842	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305113910	Thank you. This is an incredibly sympathetic resolution. When you read the judgments and, in particular, the verdict of the Supreme Court and look at the principle that once you have paid what is to be paid in compensation and the next ones are convicted in the umbrella case and then, in fact, do not pay their contributions, it does not seem fair. That is why the proposal is right and good, because that money must then be paid if not to the victim, then to a sacrificial fund. The Minister for Justice has then explained whether or not we should really try to work on what is at stake. The Left has also tabled a motion for a resolution in the past on the extension of the areas of tort, and here too we have agreed to try to look at this area. So there are several different elements that are being worked on, and that is why I very much hope that we will be able to draw up a joint report and see if we can reach each other and also get around what is in the motion for a resolution. I'm afraid this is a growing problem. After all, it is really, really problematic that many of the benefits we get from the spread of digitalisation and the fact that a lot of things are being transferred to the web also only pose a huge risk, not least for children and young people. It is a culture which is ill in many areas and where things are shared with one another, and the umbrella case has been extremely important in making a very, very clear example of the fact that what may seem to some as an innocent division is in fact a very serious and serious crime, in which the victims are faced with the consequences of that crime over and over again. The divisions of the material with sexual abuse exist online and continue to be the subject of division. In other words, it is also an unpleasant crime that continues to repeat itself. That is why this resolution is important and I think that the work we are doing in regulating social media platforms, and looking at the area of digital violations at all, is only in its infancy. Therefore, it was also good that it filled a great deal in the agreement we made for the police and the prosecution in the autumn. And I think that when we reach 10-15 years ahead, we'll look at the way things have been going and think: Wow, how hard it was really to get started on this and maybe also a little late. It is just an expression of the fact that things are developing much faster than what the authorities and we, as politicians and legislators, can follow. But there's really a need to look at this, and there's this one element of many, and that's why I hope we can work together on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114157	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114159	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur, and I heard, among other things, Mr President. particularly at the beginning, at least, support for the element that it should not be by chance, who will just be convicted first, in relation to the fact that one can then escape later, just because the victim has then reached the maximum in tort allowance. Then you could make a way of paying in anyway, so that of course you are punished equally for what has been done. After all, four proposals have been put together here, and I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party can support all four proposals, or whether this was primarily the first one that could be supported or how to understand what the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114243	There I am quite confident about the answers the Minister of Justice gave to exactly the same questions. I feel completely covered in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114250	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114251	Now it is the rapporteur who is standing in the chair, so it would also be fair to hear from the rapporteur how the rapporteur views the other three proposals, namely that, for every digital infringement committed, one should pay DKK 1000, that is to say, the transfer of the digital victim fund to another victim fund, but also this: if one has at some point experienced a major sharing activity, it will not be the next time, perhaps 2-3 years later, that it is considered a new crime. Does not the Social Democrats think that this is a little strange? Because if you hit the jaw once, you can get compensation. If you hit it in the same place three years later, you can also get compensation. Why should this not also apply to a digital infringement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114335-2	Good, but in relation to the latter it is quite true that it is described that there may be a wave, but in reality it may be a long continuous series of crimes. That's one of the things I'm thinking we're gonna have to sit and watch, so we're gonna figure out how we're gonna deal with it. Because it's not quite comparable to meeting a perpetrator who knocks you downtown, and then you meet him three years later, and because he's there, it's not a new crime. Obviously, if he knocks you down one more time, it's a new crime. But you can't one to one transfer the two things. That is why it is important that we work with it politically. The extra fine for those crimes seems very sympathetic to me. And then there is the question of the victim fund, which is also sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114420	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114439	Thank you. The proposal we are dealing with here is, of course, a timely proposal, we can say. If we go a little back in history, we really did have the same position, but with the opposite sign, because right after the occupation it was so that the criminals who got their cases for the fastest were punished the hardest, and if you could pull it a little, you got away cheaper. It is a bit of the same here, you might say, because the criminal who is being convicted of this today is being punished, among other things. If the person concerned has withdrawn the case long enough or has withdrawn it for other reasons, he or she must not pay compensation. So we just have to say that this is an unsatisfactory legal situation, and then there is really nothing more to say about it. It must have taken a long time over in the Supreme Court, for they are talented people, but they also express themselves directly and say that it is incredibly difficult to do this in a fair way. That is why I would like to say that the Radicals are making a highly topical proposal for a proposal with a problem which I do not want to say is insoluble, but it is indeed difficult. The proposal has four elements, and I can already tell you that we are very much in favour of the proposal as such, but I am not going to stand here and decide whether we say yes or no, because we will simply have clarified the problem in committee or otherwise through the Ministry of Justice first, including the interaction with the four elements. So I dare not take a position on what the Left's final position will be on the proposal, but I can say so much that I hope that a united Parliament • because I cannot imagine that anyone disagrees that this is a surrealist issue that we should not have in Danish law • can make a report on this. I could be seriously afraid that it will involve a little more consideration than the proposal might just be, and that it might have to go past some experts on compensation law. That means, among other things, that... is it a continuing crime when you bring these pictures to a lot of people, or are they separate crimes? I am not going to make it more complicated than it is, because it is complicated enough, and I can only say that the Left has reservations about its position, but we have a hundred per cent sympathy for the radicals to address the issue, because I think that is extremely good, and I hope that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights can draw up a report, possibly based on the opinions of experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114739	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114742	I would like to thank you very much for your positive reception from the Left. I think that is a very good thing for the work of the committee, and I look very much forward to being able to land something together in this area. I would like to know whether there are other things that the rapporteur seems to be missing from the question of continuing crime, that is to say, that there is a great wave of sharing activities going on over a period of time, and if, on a later occasion, there is a spectacular radio programme, a documentary or something else that suddenly refers to a given video or a given image, and that results in a whole new wave of divisions, it is just as it is directed towards. However, are there any other points that the rapporteur thinks should be further highlighted in addition to the question of continuing crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114833	I think that some of the previous rapporteurs have said that it is a question of how much a possible victim fund, if you decide on it, will have to run with the existing victim fund or whether they should run separately, but I can also imagine that there are other things that need to be linked together. I am a little sorry to have to start taking a position on the individual details here. I imagine that if this becomes something, what it hopes to do, then we will be able to meet in different areas. As regards meeting on various matters relating to compensation, I would like to say that it is not forbidden that we should start thinking in terms of compensation in the Kingdom of Denmark. We are busy laughing at the Americans, and they have let me put it this way too, but at the same time we in Denmark have some rates that we sometimes have to face, and that is something we could appropriately take a look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114931	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305114956	Today we are discussing the Radical Left's proposal to compensate for digital violations. Unfortunately, digital violations are an increasing trend. Being subjected to digital violations often has major psychological and social consequences for the person who gets shared offensive images or intimate videos on the web against his or her will. This is due, among other things, to: the loss of control and the humiliation you experience. For some victims it will be helpful to be able to confront the perpetrator with the consequences of his or her deed. It can be both if it's a missing girlfriend, a short-term flirt or someone who makes money sharing insulting material from others. It is important that the victims get some sort of closure, although their photos might be online forever and the digital violation thus being repeated over and over again. In the Danish People's Party we are basically always on the side of the victims, but I am not entirely convinced that this is the right model. The proposal envisages paying to a victim fund, so if a victim has already received compensation at a level acceptable to practice, the amount must go to the victim fund. In addition, a fine of DKK 1,000 must be paid. We simply need, through the work of the committee, to get an overview of what it looks like in this area and also to examine the levels of torture. Because there should be no doubt that, even after that decision, that was also what Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen said that this is something we should have looked at together and have corrected, because of course it should not be the case that you can simply postpone matters and then you can avoid paying the victims money. So in the Danish People's Party we are positive about it and also positive about the fact that we can land a joint report. We're just not quite sure this is the model it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305115204	Thank you. There are no comments. Thank you. The next is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305115233	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. I have also been aware of this injustice which the proposal is intended to correct, and I was actually considering putting forward a resolution myself, but now the Radicals came before me. I am actually satisfied with that, because then we will have the debate. After all, the Umbrella case had a great many perpetrators, each of whom ended up paying to the victims, or at least they had to, but in the end the Supreme Court decided, as you know, that enough was paid to the victims. This meant that the last perpetrators got away cheaper than the first, and that is a hopeless legal situation. That is why I am actually very pleased that the Minister recognises this and will do something about it. The proposal is trying to rectify this, and I think that is very good. We can only back that up. There is just one huge problem today with digital violations, which unfortunately, in particular, are often directed at women. In 2015, the UN warned that 73 per cent. of all women and girls at one time in their lives have experienced some form of online violence. By 2020, there were more than 1,100 digital sex violations in Denmark only from New Year until early August. That's a lot of people. And when so much of our lives are going on online, it is also important to make sure that many can join and feel safe when they are online. But when so many women experience gross abuse, it sends out a completely wrong signal that the perpetrators can release free of charge. We must also bear in mind that there was indeed a young man in this case complex because it is assumed that the victim has been given plenty. The insulting images and videos were shared over and over again, and it was every time an assault and deeply humiliating to the victim. No one should meet with harassment and gross violations every time they log on to social media. Then there is the second part of the proposal that is about setting up a victim fund for digital infringements. I really love the idea, but I'm a little bit more unsure if it can fly. There is already a sacrificial fund today, and I was one of them. help establish when the SF sat in government. And there I remember having a discussion about the fact that we had to bring the traffic crimes in order to get some mass in the fund. That is why I can be a little worried about whether it is possible to make one that is only for digital violations. However, as the Minister mentioned, it may be possible to interact with the existing victim fund. I hope that's what they're gonna do in the Justice Department. I think the idea is really, really good. I just want to say that we support the proposal, by the way, and we think it is very good that the Radical Left has highlighted it and would like to find some solutions to this problem, which I actually think is quite serious, so thank you for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305115543	Thank you. And we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305115600	Thank you. Digital violations are something that we in the Enhedslist have fought against for a long time. We cannot accept the abuses caused by the distribution of images and videos, and, as digital developments progress, we unfortunately see many situations where intimate images are shared with thousands of people without consent. Today, on various Internet forums, people are constantly calling for certain images that are shared without the consent of those who appear on them. It is both publicly known people and ordinary people that are affected. Save the child, who has a counselling hotline in this area, can report an increase of 87 per cent. in the number of requests for digital infringements in 2020 only. Of course, part of the explanation may be that more people dare to apply for help and that more people have become aware that you can get help and advice in this area, but that is probably also a sign that there is an increase in the actual number of such crimes. With the police settlement, we have, fortunately, been able to do more about the problem by ensuring that the police were given more resources to investigate the digital violations, and that will undoubtedly make a difference in these cases. Because it has a consequence when you expose other people to a digital violation. It has a consequence which means that those who have been subjected to the crime will have psychic but most likely for the rest of their lives. As far as the specific proposal that Radicals are making here is concerned, I think it sounds, overall, as a fair and justified consideration for the victims, and I also took note of the judgment that has come from the Supreme Court and that has led to the motion for a resolution by the Radical Left. On the one hand, there is one aspect to the perpetrators. Often there are many perpetrators, such as the umbrella case, and the legal situation today is such that the first people to be judged pay compensation for tort, but the last ones do not, because it is estimated that the victim has had enough compensation. It is there for us to see no reasonableness in it; the same crime must give the same punishment. In addition, the last of the crimes are no less serious than those of the first. Nor is it the case that 10 divisions are the same as 100 divisions. Each unjustified division is a gross violation of the victim, and therefore it is reasonable that each of the perpetrators should pay to the victim. In their motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution have indicated that the funds which may then be awarded in compensation for torture but which exceed the normal compensation to the victim must be paid into a victim fund which can use the funds to work against digital violations. And I am not against the creation of a victim fund that can use these funds, but I also see no reason why the funds cannot just go straight to the victim. Although the public debate has put forward the view that unfair compensations are to be ended up because individuals can receive large amounts of compensation if they have been violated by a sufficient number of people, it is not actually unreasonable in my optics. It is very serious to be violated, and when it comes to digital violations, it is of course about the same violation that is repeated and repeated by different people. The more times it is shared, the more people have seen you exhibited in vulnerable situations, and the harder you therefore risk being hit yourself. There is nothing unreasonable about a victim being compensated for each crime instead of giving a discount to the perpetrator. In the Enhedslisten we can support this resolution, but of course we have also listened to the Minister say that one is willing to look at it in the government and would like to have a perhaps a little looser timetable. And so we understand that in the Enhedslisten. We look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120012	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120031	Thank you, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left proposes to extend the scope of Article 26 (2) of the Civil Liability Act. 1, which includes: will result in compensation in cases of digital infringements being paid to a fund if the victim has previously been awarded a compensation which is considered to compensate for the entire case. I would like to acknowledge the good intentions behind the motion for a resolution, namely that we must always stand on the side of the victim. That is why we are actually in favour of this motion for a resolution, because we agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that it may immediately appear illogical and unfair that the same conditions for the payment of compensation should not apply in the same case. However, we are not enthusiastic about the second part of the resolution, namely that the money should go to a victim's fund rather than directly to the victim. We believe it would be justified for the compensation to go to the victims of the crime instead of a victim fund, although we would like to recognise the purpose of the fund. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples of the fact that this issue remains very relevant. That is why we are also pleased that we are having a debate today on the rules in this area. For the Conservative People's Party, it is heartblood to ensure that we keep thinking about the victim. That is why we are immediately in favour of the motion for a resolution. But we'd like to discuss the victim fund... we're not in on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120224	Thank you. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120248	The motion for a resolution by the Radical Left, which we are debating today, is intended to extend the scope of the granting of compensation for torture. The reason for the proposal is that the Supreme Court has ruled in the umbrella case that the compensation already granted for torture must be regarded as compensation for the total tort. It would appear that, in the same case, there will be people who do not have to pay compensation, even if they have done the same, simply because the injured party has already obtained compensation for tort from others in the same case. The Radical Left will therefore amend the law so that the offender will have to pay compensation for torture, regardless of whether wrongdoers have already received compensation in other cases. The compensation for tort must be paid to a victim fund for digital infringements, as the proposal states, if it is considered by the courts that the injured parties have previously received reimbursement of a amount which is considered to compensate for the total tort. Future further disseminations of the same videos and images should be considered as a new crime against wrongdoers, which can trigger a new reimbursement, and the penalty for digital violations should be imposed on a fine of DKK 1,000. by judgment to be paid into the proposed victim fund. The current legal situation is based on the fact that compensation for torture must not become a money machine. With the network, the legal position is put at the forefront, as there can be many divisions, all of which constitute independent violations. Before there were social media, compensation for torture was always a relationship between fewer people, e.g. authority and citizen, editor and injured, private person and injured. It is true that it seems unreasonable that people who have committed the same offence should not be able to pay for it because others have already paid for it in the same case and for the same offence. However, the motion for a resolution does not state what this new victim fund for digital infringements is for. That is, for example, the case. it is not clear whether it goes without claim to the victim or actually belongs to the State. In the new citizens we support the intention behind the resolution and we support the first part, which is that it should not be an attenuating circumstance for the third, fourth or fifth condemned that they are not No. 1, but no. 4 or 5 or 10 in the row. But we are opposed to any compensation for torture being paid to a victim fund which has not been described. Of course, a sacrificial fund with a lot of means should have its operation described in detail, and the violations of the wrongdoer are, of course, worse if the victim is violated by more and over a longer period of time. Therefore, the reimbursement to the victim should partly reflect the overall extent of the crimes and partly be paid directly to the victim. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120550	Thank you. There are no comments here either, so we move on to LA and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120605	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left raises a relevant debate, including a difficult debate. As far as we are concerned, the most important thing in paying compensation is for the victim to receive the allowance to which he or she is entitled. The second most important thing is that it is paid by those who have committed the criminal act. I understand from the Minister for Justice and the remarks that the injured person's compensation has already been dealt with. We can then discuss whether these allowances should be higher and whether the compensation amounts in Danish society at all are too small, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen mentioned it. However, as the present position is, the victim of these crimes will receive appropriate compensation. Then the question is raised: is it not unfair that the first perpetrators to be brought to justice pay the most, after which the latter no longer pay, because the victim has now already received his compensation? This is, of course, a relevant issue, but it also contains some nuances. For me there is no doubt that the people who have to pay the most to the victim are the first to share the original photograph, because the person who knows the victim and knows that the victim does not agree to share his private photos is the one who commits the greatest crime. And the longer we get away from the original crime, i.e. the first person to commit the crime, the less I think the crime is, because when we get all the way to the last stage, people really know what that is and who it is taken off? The first person does, but the last may not. That is why this is complicated, and that is why I am also confident that the government is willing to look at the issue and use the time needed to do the best possible. This is the process that I think is the best one for this matter, and that is why we must vote against the motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left. We think that the work that has been done is too hasty and too superficial in nature, because it is of course a single party and a single politician who does not have the same resources as the government and the entire government apparatus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120841	Thank you. We are going to move on, and we need to get a little spit on it, and then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305120944	Thank you for the floor. Young people today are well versed in apps on their smartphones; messages, images and videos are sent that are short to the keys and not always far from thought to action. The digital universe offers new opportunities, but when a new world is opened, there are also pitfalls. Mistakes are made and cowardly actions are committed. The intimate dance and kiss in the corner are immediately sent to friends at Snapchat. What was previously first divided into words on the Monday of the first recess is now digitally shared for the social event. Unfortunately, this is also the case with the far more cross-border cases. Situations in which others should never be consecrated are also shared, and if it is first divided in the class, in the circle of friends, in the social circle, then it goes away strongly. The Internet does not forget when many young people have shared the forbidden video and have it in the cloud. Fortunately, although most people can manage their digital behavior, it has major consequences for the few affected. It is they who meet with one person whom they thought was another, those who send intimate images, which are distributed without consent, those who are exploited, and many others. All too often we hear about quite terrible stories about digital violations. It has great human costs and consequences for the well-being of young people when they are hit by a digital violation, and also for adults for that matter. That is why new solutions must be found for the new crimes. The law and initiatives need to be updated to the digital age, which is why the Radical Left is today putting forward four proposals. We propose that in future all convictions for digital violations be attributed to DKK 1,000. in fines to go to a digital victim fund that can work to counteract and prevent digital violations. We are also proposing the creation of a digital victim fund, and we are open to the models that have already been brought forward in the debate, that they be placed under the existing victim fund. In addition, a Supreme Court ruling has established that a victim can reach a maximum. for compensation and that future perpetrators will not have to pay compensation once this ceiling has been reached. This means that if a particular video is shared a great many times, those who are sentenced in the end should not pay compensation. So if you have withdrawn the matter, knowingly have not come to the hearing, you can postpone it to become one of the last ones in the queue and not pay compensation. It makes no sense, and that is why the Radical Left is proposing that you have to pay this allowance no matter what, but that, if the ceiling has been reached, it should instead go to this construction with a digital victim fund. In addition, we propose that, if a new wave occurs in the sharing activity of a particular video or image at a later stage, even if the same video or image has been divided into a large wave, the victim should be able to obtain a new round replacement, as is the case in other areas. Because if you are victimized twice, you will not be denied compensation the second time with reference to the crime that you have already suffered. In other words, if the right jaw has been beaten once, you can also be compensated, even if this happens again, and that is what we are proposing to do with digital violations. I would like to thank you for the debate and thank you for the many positive statements that have been made on several of the proposals, and we look forward to the further debate and the committee reading and, in general, to the debate on this very important issue, where new solutions are needed for the new crimes and where law and initiatives need to be updated to the digital age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305121458	Thank you for that, sir. Kristian Hegaard. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305121521	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 9 March 2021. It is first the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305121556	After more than 30 years of research, we have begun to treat serious and hereditary diseases with gene therapy. We will therefore see that in the years to come there will be even more treatments on the market. That is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that we need a clear political strategy for the use of gene therapy so that we do not risk repeating the Medical Council's slinging course in relation to assessment of gene therapy, for example. Luxturna, which was finally, but only after a refusal and long waiting period, was approved for treatment. For that very reason, I have put this question to the Minister for Health. We should not look in isolation at the cost of treatment, but should include both the overall economy and the value of the individual. Genotherapy is an expensive form of treatment, but it can then eliminate the cost of lifelong treatment. And if a well-developed and well-organized health system like the Danish one is not going to take the lead, who should? We need a political decision on what we want to do with the area. We usually boast that we are a pioneer country when it comes to innovation in medicine and treatment. That is why we need to look at how a strategy can be drawn up in this area. Today it is too hasty to do research in this area and there is a lack of funds to start research. And according to a reply from the Minister, there is no plan to set a strategy in motion, either in the government or in the regions. So I look forward to having a debate on how in the future we can solve some of the huge challenges we have with many of the genetic diseases that we have in Danish society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305121805	Thank you. It's the Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305121839	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate on gene therapy and the role of the Medical Council in assessing gene therapies. It is, of course, a form of treatment that has been in existence for a number of years now, but in recent years there has been a rapid development which opens up the possibility that gene therapy can be used in the longer term to treat a number of different diseases. To describe it more accurately, gene therapy is a form of treatment where you can change the defective genes in the cell's hereditary mass so that they can function as they should. It cannot be isolated into individual diseases. These are treatments for different patient groups and are carried out in different medical specialties where the patient groups now belong. But the principle is this. Some of the treatments are now established as an offer in the health care system. This applies, for example, to treatment with the medicinal product Luxturna in patients with hereditary retinal dystrophy, which is an eye disease or treatment with CAR T for the treatment of certain types of blood cancer. Other treatments have not yet been approved. They are at a research stage. I think that will apply for quite some time in the future when it comes to this complex. At the moment, for example, this is the case. treatment of Parkinson' s disease. Thus, gene therapy is an area which includes a variety of different therapies for the treatment of various diseases which are at different stages in relation to possible introduction into the health care system. Some have been introduced, others are at the research stage, and others are in the future. Before expressing the government's position on a comprehensive plan for the use of gene therapy, I would like to say a few words about the Medical Council and what its purpose and role is. As you know, it is an independent council located under the Danish Regions. The Medical Council consists of professional experts who decide whether there is a professional basis for recommending new medicines as standard treatment in hospitals. In addition, they prepare treatment guidelines and recommendations on which medical care is best and cheapest all to ensure the best and most up-to-date treatment of the country's patients, while at the same time getting as much health as possible for the money. It is a prerequisite for the Medical Council to recommend new medicines as standard treatment, that the council considers that there is evidence of the new medicine's effect and that the effect is in line with the price it has. It's not easy to prioritise. I'm afraid that's necessary. The background to the establishment of the Medical Council with the support of a unanimous Parliament was the challenges that followed with increasing costs of hospital medicine. If you look at how that development has gone, you can see that from 2007 to 2016, alone, the cost of hospital medicine had almost doubled from 4.3 billion. kr. to 8,2 billion. kr. This, of course, led to a frustration that medicines with very little clinical added value could in principle take over the budget place from other products and, above all, from the staff forces in hospitals, which should be there because the money could simply be eaten up by extremely expensive medicines with very little clinical added value, because there was no system at that time that really took a position on the added value of the price. It goes without saying that it is almost an impossible situation to prioritise, and it is not a wish situation at all, but unfortunately it is imperative to ensure that we get maximum effect from the resources we use in our hospital system in our health. This does not change the fact that new innovative medicines are important and what is happening at the moment are revolutions in a large number of areas. It is a source of hope for the citizens and for the patients who are ill. Sometimes we find that medicines create more hope than what is actually justified and what is really the effect, and if the industry, which has great interests here, is of course demanding millions of kroner at the same time without having sufficient evidence of a similar effect, then, as a society, we need to give priority and have to say off, we need to ask for some evidence that the medicine that costs so much money actually has a beneficial effect. These are very, very well-considered decisions that need to be taken there, and they must be taken by our highly-trained specialists and experts who are precisely assessing this. And that is what we had in a question debate last year on a similar subject, i.e. the same complex. It was also stated by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament that it was agreed that the assessment best lies with the professional experts in the Council of Medicine. What's the alternative? Yes, the alternative is that it should be politicians who should decide which medicines work, which medicines should be bet on what to buy. And there it is far better that it lies with the professional experts in the Medical Council. Back in 2016, the hope was that the Medical Council would prove to be a good tool to ensure lower growth in the cost of hospital medicine. After all, a few years have passed and now we can look at what has happened to the decision taken there by a unanimous Parliament. An evaluation has been carried out by Oxford Research, and it indicates that it is going the right way. And the conclusion in the report is: The Medical Council is judged to live up to its purpose and to respect the principles set out by Danske Regioner's Board of Directors and the Danish Parliament. And it also says: The Medical Council has been involved in ensuring Amgros it is our purchasing organisation that is a stronger basis for achieving better prices through price negotiations on new medicines. Amgros reports that their overall average discounts have increased since the establishment of the Medical Council. Quote out. Last year, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament also concluded in connection with this question debate, which I mentioned earlier, that the Danish Parliament finds... that the Council of Medicine has fulfilled its purpose. The Medical Council is one of our best tools if the pharmaceutical industry demands exorbitant prices, and the council helps to ensure that health budgets are not put under further pressure. ▪ So it is the conclusion here that the Medical Council contributes to the best use of our resources and ensures that we get health for the money. Then we have the question here, and the Medical Council is also addressed, and it is also mentioned that the Medical Council has had a slinging course in relation to a recommendation by Luxturna. If you look at that case, it is not a picture that I fully recognize, because I have been informed by the Danish Regions and the Danish Medical Council, that the matter is perhaps in a slightly different light, and therefore I would like to repeat what I have been informed by Danske Regionser. It may be that it can then be common information. From Danske Regioner's information, it appears: The Danish Medical Council on 25 September 2019 refused to recommend Luxturna. In fact, the Council considered that the price was unfairly high and that there was considerable uncertainty about Luxturna's long-term impact. It was back in September 2019. On 18 February 2020, the Medical Council Presidency then informed that the company behind Luxturna and Amgros, the region's purchasing organisation for medicines, had negotiated a new price agreement. On the basis of the new price agreement, the Medical Council recommended on 15 April that Luxturna be used as standard treatment as possible, about six months after the first recommendation. And this new price agreement, which was the basis for the Medical Council's recommendation, means that, instead of paying the full price for the medicine at once, the regions pay for the medicine in instalments and only if it works and only if it works. And, of course, it was a crucial premise to take on board. Patients need to check at specified times, and if it turns out that the medicinal product does not have the desired effect, the subsequent instalments should not be paid to the company. If the medicine works, the price is the same as for the previous offer. I do not think that approach is an expression of a slinging course. I think it is precisely an expression of the fact that the Medical Council actually works, is in operation exactly as intended and is also ready to quickly correct the recommendation when new relevant information is available, for example. a new price agreement or, of course, new data on the effect. I can also inform you that, according to the Medical Council, comparable countries such as Norway and Sweden have actually refused to recommend Luxturna, referring to the fact that the price is too high in relation to the documented effect. And I am not aware of whether they have been given the opportunity to make the same agreement to follow patients and only pay if there is an effect, etc. So I can't tell you about that at this point. So with that in mind, I would like to talk a little about the second part of the question, that is to say, the one about whether we are going to introduce a single overall plan for the use of gene therapy. In order to have a professional basis, the Ministry has asked the Danish Health Service whether it would make sense from their point of view to draw up a single plan to promote the use of gene therapy. And the Danish Health Authority considers that it is not appropriate to introduce a single overall plan when gene therapy specifically includes a number of different therapies for the treatment of different diseases that are at different stages in relation to introduction into health care. I am as busy as the questioners of promoting new innovative treatments for the benefit of our patients, and we are all certainly. But the question is, How do we do it best? And it is my starting point that I do not want to introduce a single overall plan to promote gene therapy, because according to the Danish Health Authority, it concerns so many different diseases that it will hardly have a beneficial effect. We believe it is necessary to look at the individual patient. Doctors and other healthcare professionals must evaluate with the patient which treatment is most beneficial to him or her. And it is not something on which Christiansborg's side should decide that we think the doctors should at the same time also believe that it is not our job to promote the use of certain treatments against some others. There is no doubt that gene therapy is already a very, very important element and will continue to be what I started by saying, but to what extent and when and how it should replace other treatments, I do not think we politicians should go in and dictate. If a plan or strategy is drawn up for the putting into service of a particular type of new medicinal product, it could be gene therapy, as we are talking about here, then there is a risk that this type of medicinal product will not be subject to the same degree as hitherto to professional experts' assessment of the evidence of the medicinal product's efficacy before it is put into service. And then it will be difficult to determine whether the new medicine is at the level of the existing treatment. So there is a risk of using new and possibly more expensive medicines that may also have a lower effect or have more side effects than the existing treatment. That is, of course, well known. And, of course, it must also be said in all cases, in the assessment of all patients. In addition, the use of new, expensive medicines as gene therapy without prior evaluation by the Medical Council could also have major consequences for the possibility of determining whether there is a reasonable relationship between the additional cost, which most often comes with a new medicine, and then the effect that the product will be able to contribute. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that our position is clear. We want to work to promote innovative and new forms of treatment, such as: gene therapy for the benefit of Danish patients. It must not be at the expense of professionalism and of treatments that we know work, and it is therefore absolutely essential that we, on the political side, make room for the medical expertise in the departments and in the Medical Council. So we do not support a comprehensive plan for the use of gene therapy. The area is simply too complex for us to say that it is such a standard product that must be disseminated in this way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305123217	Thank you. So it is now possible to make a brief comment from the rapporteurs, and that is first Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305123222	Thank you very much. I think the Minister and the officials have completely misunderstood what we would like to debate, but I can talk about that from the top of the platform. So I would like to ask: how does the Minister see that the infrastructure in relation to gene therapy is working today? Do we have the special labs that are necessary? And does the Minister believe that this is the way to proceed with the approval of new gene therapy, such as in the United Kingdom? Takes 3 years at Rigshospitalet, at the same time you have to go through the Danish Agency for Patient Safety, the Danish Medicines Agency, the Danish Working Environment Agency and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency? I mean, it's so difficult when we have a new, innovative treatment for some people who are suffering and have a genetic disease. That's the kind of thing I'd like to have had a plan for. And the minister hasn't been able to address this at all in relation to saying: Well, if we had a plan, we could also say that there were some hospitals in Denmark that actually had rooms and laboratories to do it here, instead of every single time you have to have a treatment, you have to apply to the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, etc. So I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305123328	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305123329	Thank you. Then I look forward to the rapporteur's speech if it is that we do not hit the 100% right thing here. It was really to the best of its ability in relation to what is described in this debate. And if it is about the rapporteur's wish to address it in this way with how to use it in relation to the Labour Inspectorate and the environmental rules and other things that need to be, then I would like to say that we will be very, very happy to contribute to it by the Ministry in relation to having it drilled out, whether there are some things that can be done more smartly and more smoothly. What I was focusing on in my speech you just heard it was the health professional setup when you introduce new treatments, including gene therapy. And if there is anything else, including in neighbouring legislation, which does not belong to us, but which comes into force here, let us at last have a look at it. I'd love to do that. So we would very much like to answer questions, and if anything is to be investigated about it, we would be very happy to help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305123425	Thank you. There are no more comments right now, so we shall now proceed to the debate. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305123445	Thank you very much. As I said from my seat, I think it is misunderstood, and perhaps it is also about the fact that I mention Luxturna and the Medical Council; then the whole speech of the Minister, there was a defence speech for the Medical Council, which has smeared for a very long time with two gene therapies, one for children with muscle loss and one for a retinal disease. One of the things that the Danish People's Party has worked very hard for is that you look at it in a different way, instead of looking only at the price. That was also the reason why, in the principles of the Medical Council, we were put in place, that we should be innovative and that we should have medicines for rare diagnoses and so on. etc. But I will not actually deal so much with the Medical Council other than to say: when the Minister says that the Medical Council is independent, then I would say that we in the Danish People's Party do not think it is when those who sit on the Medical Council can be both the director of a hospital and at the same time sit on the Regional Medical Council. Then they are not independent, because they know that if they say yes to an expensive medicinal product, it costs in the hospital at the other end. And that's what we're gonna do about. We'd like to get together and have a plan and a strategy. And why? Well, I'll talk to you, so it's not like I'm making up doctors, I'm talking to scientists, and I'm talking to pharmaceutical companies about how hard it is, etc. I'm talking to some of the people who actually have a disease that means they can't get a treatment. And we know that there is a lot at stake. Well, I found the Ethnic Council's 25-year-old description and discussion of gene therapy, and it was already said that this will be something we will see in the future, and indeed it is. Well, at the Rigshospitalet, four different gene therapies have been approved in the haematological ward. And these are some of the people I've been talking to. But the problem is that there is a very long authorisation procedure. At the same time, it is said that there must be some special laboratories in the hospitals to handle gene therapy, and therefore it would be appropriate for us to say right now that a joint laboratory was set up in the hospital, so that it was there for when you needed it, and so you had it in different parts of the country, so that it was not just one place in Denmark. Because that is something we want to see in the future, and that is also why we want there to be a plan for it. When we ask, we're told that for one of these scientists it takes three years to get a cure approved. And it can be said that this has perhaps already been through several other approval procedures. So that is where we should start by saying: how can we create the sites? How can we make it easier and better? Could we get some people on the board, or where else should it be? Not in the Medical Council; it has to take care of itself in the regions? It is about new and innovative research, medicine and treatment and about ensuring that there are some people sitting and saying: How can we get approvals through without writing to the Danish Agency for Patient Safety, the Danish Medicines Agency, the Danish Labour Inspectorate, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency etc. etc.? We know the waiting times and so on, which means that the people who are actually in need of treatment are waiting. Then you might also ask yourself: Why is gene therapy relevant? Well, there are about 4,000 diseases that alone can be linked to genetic disorders. These are some that may be hereditary, but they may also occur spontaneously, and we know many of them, on which different types of gene therapy are also already being tried. It is cancer treatment, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, etc., and gene therapy focuses on the main cause of the genetic disease by replacing, disabling or repairing the defective DNA, that is to say, the cause of a disease. By offering a treatment to Danish patients, it would be possible to ensure that Denmark was in a leading position in relation to patient treatment with the latest technologies. And we know what it's like. In other words, there is probably a reason why our Prime Minister went to Israel with the Austrian Chancellor and made some agreements, because we are capable of registering. Medical companies want to work with Denmark because we can do this with registering and because we know our citizens and patients. That is why many people would like to see Denmark as a pioneering country in this particular area. So I don't think the minister is forward-looking. I do not think the other ministers have been. There has been some innovation which has also just been announced yesterday? But what makes gene therapy a conventional treatment? That's because some of these therapies, treatments are curative, and curative means that the treatment can actually cure some of those who have it by repairing the DNA that caused the disease. One has been researching for many years and something has been a bad thing, because it has caused some other problems, but that is one of the reasons why one is researching, but one also sees that it can go in and heal someone, and that is also why one uses it around. That is why we believe that this is something for which we need to draw up a plan and strategy, and that is why we have made a proposal for adoption. I see I don't have time to talk anymore, but I could keep doing something about this... is something that is very close to our hearts. Therefore, on behalf of DF, V, NB and KF, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Danish health service does not yet have a plan or strategy for the use of gene therapy, despite the fact that this treatment technology has already in the small part taken the Danish health service and is likely to become a more widespread treatment, especially for the rare diagnoses, within the next few years. Genetherapy in isolation will significantly challenge the cost of new medicine, but for some it will be a curative treatment. The Danish Parliament looks forward to a public hearing on gene therapy in collaboration with the Danish Ministry of Health and Danish Regions to discuss the current uncertainties and challenges of gene therapy and to ensure Denmark a clear leading position in the field of medical innovation. Public consultation should also ensure maximum insight into the effects and consequences of gene therapy, but also in what is required to ensure Denmark a leading position in patient treatment with new technologies. • V 81). I think it is an excellent text, and I am surprised that the government and the Social Democrats do not want to be involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305124200	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. There are no brief comments, so we go further. I understand that the Enhedslisten speaks at some point on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, so that we proceed to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305124234	Thank you very much. I very much agree that it is a very nice text that Mrs Liselott Blixt has produced here, and I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party. I always think that interesting questions are raised in the Danish People's Party, but this is one of the really, really good ones on a very important subject, which I personally believe will fill a great deal in the discussion about which treatment strategies our common healthcare should use in the coming years. The question also refers to a question debate we had in January 2020, namely on new medicines for rare diseases, and just to make it clear straight away, my position and that of the Left is the same in terms of the role of the Medical Council and the seven principles of the Council's work, which have been endorsed by the parliamentary parties. Having said that, however, I also believe that it is of enormous importance that health care and its operators in the regions are at the forefront of development and are not surprised when new and often, as we are dealing with here, almost revolutionary technologies become available in the treatment of patients and, in the first place, most often patients with rare diseases, but indeed in the longer term also open up the treatment of patients for whom we do not have a cure right now. However, it is also the case that new technology is often more expensive from the outset, but hopefully also much more effective than what is now available to patients, which requires that we also look at how we budget for medicine costs in the future. And here I think it is essential to discuss whether the setup we have about the Medical Council today is actually able to deal with that challenge. Denmark has a very good opportunity to become a leader in the use of gene therapy in patient treatment, but I believe, as I said, that it requires a number of considerations and, above all, choices before we get that far. In Denmark there are still only a few approved gene therapies, but it is also expected that the number of new therapies will accelerate in the coming years. When I praise the Danish People's Party here for raising this debate, it is because I share the view that there is a need for a slightly broader discussion of a strategy and plan for gene therapy, because technology has the potential to cure patients with genetic disorders that they would otherwise have to live with for the rest of their lives, and where health care would in many cases have to offer an animal what you might call maintenance treatment without it curing the patient. Last year Mrs Liselott Blixt also mentioned the case of gene therapy with Luxturna for a rare eye disease, and here there was no maintenance treatment, only the prospect for the individual patient to become blind at high secondary costs for both the patient and society. I can see that for the individual drug very often, when we talk about gene therapy, there may be quite high costs, which we do not normally see in relation to health care treatments, but perhaps the introduction of gene therapy in patient treatment is a good occasion for • and I also mentioned it a little earlier in relation to the setup around the Medical Council • to look at medical treatments and, in particular, one-off treatments, as is the case with gene therapies, in a slightly different light than we have done so far. Because if the technology is assessed against the price alone, the current system challenges our health services, including, as I said, the Medical Council, in terms of how we assess and finance and pay for new medical technologies compared to the previous and such a little more conventional therapies and treatments. That is why I also believe that we need an early and wide-ranging discussion and discussion of what we want with gene therapy, and also how we are going to pay for medicines in such high price ranges in the future. I know that the regions have for the time being made agreements with producers of gene therapy based on pay per performance over x number of years, i.e. that the payment for medicines is distributed over a number of years, and if the effect against expectation is suddenly no longer present, there is no payment. That approach sounds reasonable, as long as the regions and the pharmaceutical producers agree on what triggers a payment. However, we probably also need a slightly broader discussion of economic aspects of gene therapy in the future. Finally, I would like to say that I think we should be at the forefront of providing patients with timely access to the best possible and available treatment, and the introduction of gene therapies in Denmark will offer patients a potential cure for diseases with few or no current treatment alternatives. In those words, Madam President, I would like to end my speech, which went a little further than expected, and to endorse the text adopted by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305124756	It's okay. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305124802	I am pleased that the Left also sees the potential, and I would of course like to apologise if there are some who are following our debate, because it is sad that there are no more people in the Chamber. There should be one from each party. I know we have an Epidemi Committee that some of us had to leave. And, of course, I believe that, when we see a link between health rapporteurs and epidemic committee rapporteurs, we should pause the committee meeting while the matter is being dealt with in the Assembly. I hope that will be the case, and I hope that the rapporteur will agree to that. I also think that when we talk about this, the Left, even when they were in government, was in favour of innovation. After all, these initiatives were made for life science, because we needed more clinical research, a Danish Medicines Agency in top class and more startup companies. I guess that's also one of the reasons why you want us to be a little more innovative in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305124900	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305124901	I agree with the first part. It's a little too bad things are falling apart as they are now. In any case, I think that we need to try, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, to have some broad discussion on how we can sort this out. There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, there is consideration for patients, and on the other hand, because I am now the Leftman, who can be some good financial gain by making us a pioneer in the development of gene therapy. And there it may well be that we also have to look at the economic setup we have in relation to the Medical Council in a slightly different way. I'm not running from anything. I'm just saying that I think and that's also what it says in the text of the adoption... that we have to have some basic discussion about whether this is the right way we've screwed it up in terms of getting some treatments where we have to pay up front. It therefore challenges the way we traditionally look at payment in the health care system. So I'm looking forward to it whether or not this text is adopted... that hopefully we'll have a good basic discussion on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125007	Thank you. Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125009	Just one question. If we do not get a majority in favour of the proposal for adoption, will the rapporteur help us to go up in committee and have a hearing in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125020	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125021	Well, I think that the question debate that the Danish People's Party is raising here gives us reason to try with all sorts of parliamentary methods as well as to get this agenda going, because it is important. And as both the Danish People's Party's rapporteur and I have probably experienced, we have been run on the doors in a positive sense by all sorts of stakeholders who like to get this into a parliamentary space. I think this is what we should do, if only the Danish People's Party and the Left together with other good forces should ensure that it becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125054	Thank you. Then we go further in the rapporteur's line, and there is no Socialist People's Party, nor from the Radical Left, so it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125119	I'm a new health rapporteur. This is my first case in Parliament as a health rapporteur, and I would say that when I saw the subject, I thought: exciting. And now most of all the health rapporteurs are sitting in the Epidemic Committee and have something important to do there, so I should like to say hello on behalf not only of the Enhedslisten, but also of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left. What I realized was that when you dive into this query debate and what's behind it, it's actually really exciting what gene therapy is and can do. I do not think there are many people who know this, nor are the audiences crowded, because this is probably not the kind of concept that often flourishes in the general public. However, it is a collective term for many different treatments, which gives an opportunity to enter, as has also been said, and change in the genetic mass of the defective genes. This is insanely exciting, because then you can actually get well in a completely different way than you have been able to do in the past. We have then looked at what the Danish Health Authority has said and recommended about it, and do not think there is a need for an overall plan for the strategy either. Nor do we believe, and we can almost understand from the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, that neither does the Danish People's Party think so, but then we may have misunderstood the question of the question debate that there is a reason in particular to exclude this kind of treatment from the Medical Council and the usual authorisation procedure. What we can also understand in the Danish Health Service is that it is also quite important that we have the usual procedure so as not to water down, that professional experts are also aware of the approval of this kind of treatment. It must be flexible to approve new treatments, yes, and innovative treatments, yes, but it must still be safe. It is also very important that the Medical Council remains independent and that we do not exempt all sorts of different treatments from the usual authorisation procedure. Then the question is whether there are problems with how to use gene therapy after approval, and also, I could understand from the Danish People's Party's rapporteur whether there is a lack of special laboratories or occupational health and safety rules that are limiting this particular form of treatment. I should like to say straight away that this has not been the case, I have understood the subject of the question debate, but it is, of course, something to which I think it is important that we are asked some questions. If we can change that and the internship around it without relaxing approval procedures and approval requirements, that is, of course, right, really wise, and we would really like to hear more about that. Then I have a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, which I would like to read out: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Danish Health Authority's professional assessment that it is not appropriate to introduce a single overall plan for the work on new gene therapy, when gene therapy includes different treatment methods for different diseases that are at different stages in relation to introduction into the health service and when mechanisms already exist to assess the introduction of new gene therapies. The Danish Parliament welcomes the development of new and innovative therapies for gene therapy, but considers that there is no basis for a separate strategy for gene therapies. The Danish Parliament also notes that the Medical Council treats gene therapies in the same way as other new medicines. The Medical Council approved Luxturna when the company returned with a new price agreement which means that the regions will only have to pay for the medicine when it works. The Danish Parliament finds that the Medical Council has lived up to its purpose and is one of the best tools if the pharmaceutical industry demands exorbitant prices for new medicines. • V 82).
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125525	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the further debate. Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125535	Thank you. First congratulations and welcome to the new Health Rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mrs Pernille Skipper. I hope we can work together well. I usually have that in some respects with the Enhedslisten. But I am surprised that Enhedslisten now actually has an answer that is almost made by the officials of the Danish Health Service, who only focus on the fact that I want some treatments not to go through the Medical Council. So that is clearly what both the Minister and Enhedslisten, plus all the others that Enhedslisten represents today, are starting from. I didn't think the Enhedslisten was such a civil servant, so I would like to know whether the Enhedslisten, plus all the parties that Enhedslisten represents today, will help us to have a hearing in the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125626	When we have been behind this text of adoption, it is because we believe that what is in it is correct; I must bear that in mind. And whether we're civil servants or not, there's probably a lot of different opinions about. The text of the question refers specifically to a desire to avoid a repetition of the Medical Council's slinging course in relation to the assessment of gene therapy Luxterna. As the text of the adoption also says, that process was real enough, as we see it. So I've dealt with civil servants like that or not. But, of course, we would like to dwell more on whether there are problems which make it practically difficult to use gene therapy, which is otherwise approved and which should be approved. So let's finally have that talk in committee. Then there is the question of whether or not there is a mood for a hearing. Now I have not had many times in the Committee on Health, but in the committees that I usually come into, it depends very much on the overall atmosphere and what else is on the wall, and I simply do not have that in the Committee on Health yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125732	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125733	I think that Enhedslisten has also been criticizing in the past that there were some medicines that were not used in the treatment. It was especially about a patient up in North Jutland. There I think there was a rapporteur who was out and would also do something about that problem. So I wonder, of course, that you suddenly think that the Medical Council is doing great things and all sorts of other things. I hope, then, that the new rapporteur will learn more about what is happening in this area and that it is not just about Luxturna, but about some citizens who can actually treat their illness so that they are cured, having to go through so many things, and about the fact that all economic calculations have to be taken into account, so that you also look at what that means socio-economically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125825	After all, I am addressing what is in the text of the question debate, which refers to a specific medicinal product and the process that has been around it. I'd love to hear about other cases. Nor have I advocated that the Medical Council always do everything perfectly and that nothing can be adjusted. I have just dealt with the specific text before the question debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125850	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125853	Thank you. Here too, I forgot to say that, and I should have warmly congratulated the fine post. I myself am very proud to be the health rapporteur, and I almost think it is one of the finest things you can become, so hearty congratulations on that. I have one question. Basically, this is also about how we normally budget in the public sector, and I just think that I can track some challenges in someone coming with some product that you have to pay a high price for up front, but then, on the other hand, do not have to pay for in the long term, unlike if you do what I myself define as maintenance medicine for patients. After all, I have been in both municipal and regional councils where we are budgeting for one year at a time, and I know that this presents some challenges for the ordinary system if it is the case that you have to pay once up front for something that actually works over 20 years if the rapporteur can understand what I mean by that. Shouldn't you use a little effort to look into that with how we pay for that kind of medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305125958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130000	Thank you for the fine words and welcome. Of course, it makes sense to think in long-term budgeting, even in the sense that Mr. Martin Geertsen talks about this. There may well be things that are worthwhile in the long run, even if it is more expensive here and now, and that is probably possible when it comes to medical treatments, so I would very much like to discuss that. I just cannot stand here from the platform and say that I think we should put the principles of the Medical Council's work into certain areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130044	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. While we are just getting ready, I can say that the next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130115	Thank you for that, President. A warm welcome to Enhedslisten's new health rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, is also due from this. I am also looking forward to working together. It's gonna be okay. And a big thank you to Liselott Blixt for raising this very exciting debate and boosting some things. I think it is very good that we are moving forward with the whole area of gene therapy. The area of medicine, where almost day by day and at least over time a furious development is taking place, is incredibly exciting. It is in many ways a great gift. You get medicines that have fewer side effects and a better effect. We have plenty of examples of some who have received a great help from a new medicine that has come onto the market. For example, we can take all the rheumatoid patients who had previously been placed in passive support and who today have a perfectly normal life without having severe genes. The fact that today they can do their job and things like that is amazing. Therefore, I almost always call new medicine a gift because it is often something that has fewer side effects and a really good effect. Then we have a problem with the price, because it is typically a huge cost when there is a new, beneficial and effective medicine. Therefore, the Medical Council was set up to assess the effect versus the price, and I think that the Medical Council has fully lived up to what was intended by it when we reduced it, namely to ensure this balance between the price and the effect. In any case, as the Minister for Health also explained, it has been possible to have some other tools to negotiate the price. I think it has looked reasonable. There are plenty of preparations that have been negotiated at a cheap price because one has simply had the opportunity to say: we are not introducing this preparation as standard treatment from day one, but we can, for example, initiate it for some selected patients, and if it is the case that we have to start it as standard treatment, we must have a different price. It has actually succeeded in a great many cases. We also have some good examples of this, for example. medicines for people with cystic fibrosis. There you went in and made a really nice deal with the supplier of a preparation, so you have a subscription scheme that allows you to cover all patients in Denmark who have cystic fibrosis with an active preparation. Then you are free from having to look at the individual patient and find out if the product has an effect on the individual patient and whether the individual patient can benefit from the product. It is such an assessment that one has to make when it is million-dollar preparations, but it was agreed to make an agreement on a subscription scheme covering everyone in Denmark with the said disease. It's the same way compared to that eye preparation Luxturna. It is also another way of shopping because the price and payment have simply been tied up to the effect. I think it is excellent that instead of perhaps throwing a lot of millions of dollars at something that may not always have an effect, you have an agreement with the supplier that here you pay only when you benefit from the product. The problem with these preparations is many times that the data base may be quite small, because it may be for some small patient groups where you simply have not had the opportunity to test it on very many patients. It may also be because it is simply in its infancy and has not been used, and therefore the data base is not very large. So I think there is a good development in the field of medicine. Now we have the next step, and of course we fully support the fact that we have a hearing so that we can delve deeper into this issue and be at the forefront of the challenges that lie ahead of us. So we support the excellent text adopted by Mrs Liselott Blixt. We think the rest of the Folketing ought to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130618	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130621	Thank you very much for your speech and for your support. But I have to take this up when the rapporteur mentioned how well the Medical Council works. Because I have here the rapporteur, who himself is talking about gene therapy for children with muscle loss. There the rapporteur, who is himself in the North Jutland Region, says that the rapporteur wants to hold a new debate with the pharmaceutical company bypassing the Medical Council. Is this proof that the Medical Council is working if you want to make a deal out of it, and you actually think these kids should be allowed to try this treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130703	The situation to which Mrs Liselott Blixt refers is, of course, a group of children who have not been treated, because there is quite a lot of doubt about the effect, because those children have reached an age when it is of course under discussion. What I have said there is that I think the supplier should also go in and see this as a specific situation, where they then said that they had 20 or 24 children, or how many it is, in the treatment, and then made some sort of agreement that you followed them and then paid only in quotation marks for those where it had an effect. This is the kind of thing where I think we should sort of meet and say: okay, if it has an effect on some patients, you pay, and if it turns out to have no effect on anyone, then you don't pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130755	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130757	Well, sir. Per Larsen, that deal was actually the same thing you did with Luxturna in the Medical Council, so why couldn't you do it with this? Is it because we are talking about a story coming from North Jutland that Conservatives would like to make an agreement? If we now have someone else who has another disease but who does not live in North Jutland, will the rapporteur also work on making an agreement outside the Medical Council for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130825	These kids with muscle loss actually live all over Denmark, so that there are some of them in North Jutland, doesn't have the big thing to say in relation to my attitude to it. The fact is that it is different companies, and those who produce Luxturna have apparently agreed to such an agreement, where you only pay if it is such that it has effect, and it has the supplier of the muscle loss medicine so apparently did not think it was a good idea. I find that regrettable, because these children would benefit from getting that medicine. There is no doubt that there would be some of them who would have the effect of it, but now no one will have the effect of it, and that is quite awful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130906	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so we have reached the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305130936	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for a good debate. I have to say, as the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party said, that such debates are really good here, but now it is also the first time we have tried it, while at the same time we have had an entirely new committee in the Danish Parliament that meets at the same time. It's just that I get so sad about it when there's a picture of the Assembly Hall, and then people say they're just at home ditching. But they do not; they sit in committee meetings at the same time as they do. So there we have to make an effort on the part of the Danish Parliament when we have the two committees and there is some coincidence between the rapporteur in the Epidemis Committee and the Health Committee and what is happening in the Assembly. I thought it was a good debate with those who have come here, and that was really fine, but the others are sitting with the work elsewhere, as I said. It could just be a bit of an unfortunate signal. The idea is, of course, precisely to bring together the parties to learn more about each other's views, cross blades and also listen to each other. In addition, however, I think it has been a good question debate and I think there are some very clear perspectives that we must dive into together. I understand that the Danish People's Party has mentioned something about doing a hearing and something else, and I look forward to hearing more about what you will achieve in the Health Committee. And we will, of course, to the extent necessary, if you go ahead with that idea, contribute by the Ministry. Now I have just tried to study it a little since I was up here last time because I got the question of the little other aspects than what my speech was about, i.e. how, as a region, the employer organises itself optimally in relation to gene therapy to the extent that it requires other environmental approvals and other equipment and perhaps also in relation to the working environment etc. I look forward to that too, so that we can help to drill out, so that we are ready and are a country at the forefront of those areas. I would very, very much like to help with that. So, for my part, I would like to thank you for this debate. I'm looking forward to working on this problem area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131144	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131147	Yes, we have a question, so, in order not to have to go up and rip it all off again, I will not go up and take the floor at the end, but I will take it up here, and of course I thank the rapporteurs who have been here. But I would also like to thank the Minister for looking at how we can do something about this so that we can just get some steps forward with this. I also know that the government has set aside money for life science with the regions and that it wants something on the innovative fronts and so on. We are in some good positions in Denmark, as I also said, and that is also a reason why the Prime Minister can go out and talk to others about diagnosis, vaccines, and what else can be of registrations. And we have also made other agreements in the field of genomes and so on. I therefore hope that we can look forward to helping each other a little further forward in their shoes compared to what is called gene therapy, in order to make it a little easier for those who want to research it and that we get the regions dressed for it. I would, of course, like to know whether the Minister agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131255	Yes, I am, and I also agree with the analysis that, of course, there are problems.That is what we are talking about on a daily basis in health care and many health inequalities challenges, and we need to focus more on prevention. And, of course, there are also some things that go wrong • completely agree, that is there and we need to focus on that. But we must also look at the options we have, because otherwise we will end up only correcting the mistakes that are, rather than seeing the opportunities we have, in order to prevent and improve further. There are unique opportunities in Denmark with a very, very strong public health service and very, very strong and with increasing strength of private companies and a desire for public-private partnerships and strong, strong research in Denmark. And that is one of the foundations for our patients to be able to receive world-class treatment in the Danish healthcare system. That is our shared responsibility and in the common interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131352	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131353	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I would like to address the same question to the Minister for Health, as I did to Mrs Pernille Skipper: what are we really doing forward in terms of funding for this? That's why this is particularly interesting. That is because it requires a new way of financing medicines, because it is often very expensive at a start, while, on the other hand, there is no cost in the long term. One thing is that it is 14-15 drugs or something like that that we are up to now, but if it becomes a broad palette of suffering that many people have, where you can suddenly use gene therapy, which requires very large investments up front, what do we do? So, does the Minister have any suggestions or will he start some work where, like a little more systematically and structurally, one goes to that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131456	Well, I heard the question, and I think that's a very relevant point. The system we now have, which in many ways works and has had an effect since we introduced the Medical Council in 2016, must also be geared to the introduction of new and I completely agree not only innovative, but also different forms of treatment for start-up extremely expensive gene therapies, which, to the extent that they start to have an effect and work, besides being a huge help for the individual, can be a huge saving for our health care, because it is a question of being cured for the disease that would otherwise require lifelong treatment with different medicines and other things. It's in the setup where we have to be honest to say that it doesn't matter if the Medical Council in its current form has to be adjusted further along the way, so it could be ready to handle the setup and be able to compare what is really the alternative to introducing it here. But I look forward to working on this with the Folketing and our regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131605	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131606	Now I am not going to catch the minister on the wrong foot on the platform at least not in this case and then a little, that is, because doesn't the Minister think there's a need to be a little systematic about this? It can all of a sudden surprise us in the real world, right? Does the Minister not think that there is a need for us to do something a little more square here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131646	Yes, or that we might go a little less square and look a little more holistic on new therapies and recognise the opportunities that are ahead of us. One gets a little depressed when one hears Mrs Liselott Blixt............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Now we say again that it's right in front of us. But there has been a huge development, factually and documentably, just over the last few years, and it will accelerate further in the future. I understand that the Medical Council was invited on 30 March to discuss the methods they are working with. In cooperation with the Danish Parliament's Health Committee, I would therefore call for this to be included on the agenda as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131732	Thank you so much. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 9 March 2021. We just have a small break before we start the next item on the agenda. I am just waiting to start the next item on the agenda because we lack a number of rapporteurs from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. We also lack the rapporteur for the proposers who come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305131930	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305132003	With the proposal we are debating today, New Citizens want a stop to spontaneous asylum applications in Denmark and that refugees should be helped in the neighbourhood as a starting point. As such, I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we should, as far as possible, seek to eliminate spontaneous asylum seekers, and I also agree that we should instead provide sufficient help for those refugees who are close to the conflicts. We believe that we can help more and better in the neighbourhood, and that is why the government is also increasing support for this, even quite considerably. The proposers state that the current asylum system is dysfunctional and inhumane, that it supports traffickers and that it costs a great deal of money, and I also agree with the proposers. On the other hand, I do not agree with how we are going to solve that challenge. It is perhaps fundamental that we look differently at the value of international solutions. An asylum freeze is an expression of a one-sided Danish solution. The government believes it is more sustainable to tackle the challenges differently. We believe that this is a challenge which goes far beyond Denmark's borders and which therefore also requires international cooperation. I therefore do not see Denmark's international obligations as an obstacle, but perhaps rather as part of the solution, and I shall come back to that. As the proposers themselves are aware, Denmark is bound by the UN Convention on Refugees and among others. of the Convention's prohibition of expulsion to a country where the foreigner in question is at risk of persecution. In addition, Denmark is bound by the European Convention on Human Rights, which also contains a ban on sending a person to a country where the person is at risk of being treated in breach of the Convention. It could be capital punishment, torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. This means that the States are obliged to examine an application for asylum, as failure to examine an asylum application could involve a risk of expulsion to these atrocities. In other words, we do not know what we will send that person back to if we do not examine it. But of course, as the proposers point out, even with international commitments in hand, Denmark can reject an alien seeking asylum in this country to one of our neighbouring countries which has acceded and actually respects the UN Convention on Refugees and which has access to a proper asylum procedure. We can do that. The question is how and with what tools. The possibility of distributing asylum seekers between EU countries, for example, to Denmark. can send an asylum seeker to Germany, comes from arrangements such as Dublin cooperation. That is precisely the essence of Dublin cooperation. Our participation gives us a number of rights, and it naturally gives us a number of obligations. This is always the case with international cooperation, and of course we cannot and must not run away from it, but we can benefit from it. If Denmark were to introduce a total ban on asylum, we would not be able to participate in Dublin cooperation, which would in turn lead to other far-reaching consequences for Denmark's other participation in EU cooperation, for example. Schengen cooperation. However, if we imagine for a moment now that we are putting in place a total ban on asylum, as the authors of the motion for a resolution want, and that we are thus breaking our international commitments and stepping out of Dublin cooperation, what will happen then? As I am sure the authors of the motion also know, many do not seek spontaneous asylum on the border. The Copenhagen Police Department, for example, is: one of those where asylum applications are most frequent. People usually seek asylum inside the country, and what do the proposers think we should do with them? Let's say that we, for example, are... If we want to send these people to one of our neighbouring countries, it could be Germany because we have a presumption that they have been in Germany before they came to Denmark, then Germany will probably demand that Denmark take a similar responsibility in the opposite situation, where an asylum seeker who has been in Denmark appears in Germany. That is what Dublin cooperation is basically about. Or what should we say to the Swedes if they want to send an asylum seeker back to us, whom they believe must have travelled through Denmark to come to Sweden: that we will not relate to that at all and that they may keep him? At the same time, if we demand that Germany accept asylum seekers from us, it will be very difficult and even impossible for Denmark to transfer asylum seekers to other Member States if we do not have this Dublin cooperation. This may mean that we risk becoming a magnet for asylum seekers who have already been refused their asylum application in another European country. I believe that we can all agree that we would like to retain the possibility of refusing to deal with an asylum application where the asylum seeker is actually more closely associated with another Dublin country. That is why we are involved in Dublin cooperation. Let us say that instead we want to send these people back to their country of origin or to their former country of origin, should we not also first make sure that there is no war and that they do not end up in a torture cellar or are killed? We all agree that we must, of course, make sure. But is that not precisely what the asylum procedure is supposed to reveal today? How are we to ensure that we do not send people back to torture or worse if we refuse to carry out such asylum procedures? We can also take it one step further in relation to the proposal by the proposers for a total ban on asylum: if we can neither send these people to one of our neighbouring countries, because we do not have mutually binding agreements in place, nor can we send them to their own country, what are we going to do about them? Then they will be staying in Denmark. We could turn a blind eye, but then we'll see these big tent cities under the motorway bridges with migrant camps and accumulations in the larger cities, and I don't think any of us have an interest in that either. Should we turn to ourselves, step out of our international cooperation and go our own way, and what does that mean for Denmark's role in the international community, for our participation in the European Union and for our relations with our neighbouring countries? I do not believe that we can simply go our own way in relation to asylum policy. I believe, and I believe, that a breach of our international obligations can have an impact on the cooperation we have with several other countries in other areas. That is why I believe that an asylum freeze will create more problems for us than it will solve for us. That is also why we need to work together internationally; that is where the solution is found. We need to tackle, basically, the challenges of the asylum system. That is where we fully share the views of the proposers. There is a need to completely remove the incentive for people to jump on board a dinghy in the first place and sail across the Mediterranean with the expectation of a future in the European Union, because there should not be free immigration into Europe. We must have better control over who comes in and access to the EU must be controlled by the EU countries themselves and not by the trafficking industry. That is why, as you know, the government has put forward proposals for a new asylum system in which an asylum application in Denmark is no longer intended to lead to an entry ticket to the Danish welfare community. Instead, asylum procedures and possible protection must be moved outside Denmark's borders. I also note with satisfaction that the proposers state that the government's proposals appear to be necessary. I also have the expectation that we will see a marked drop in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark once the scheme is in place. In this way, at the same time, we will have funds released to help more and better in the neighbourhood. I also note that the same notes can be read in the motion for a resolution, and here the proposers state that Denmark must increase the funding to raise the standard in refugee camps and protect more people on the run and protect them better. The authors also write that Denmark cannot and must not wait for other EU countries to participate in cooperation. I agree entirely with that. That is why we have always said that we are willing to go on our own or with a few other countries, and that is actually what we are doing. I understand the impatience of the proposers. In fact, I think I may even be even more impatient myself, but what I can promise New Citizens is that the government is working hard to implement a new asylum system. Soon we will be putting forward a new bill which will take us a small step forward in ensuring a necessary legal basis for us from Denmark to transfer asylum seekers to asylum treatment in third countries with an agreement in place. To sum up, I actually understand and share the concerns and desire for a break with spontaneous asylum applications, but we do not believe that this resolution is the solution. We cannot impose a total ban on asylum if we are to comply with our international obligations, and the government believes that we should. And even if we break with our international commitments, it will be our assessment that we will only create new problems for ourselves. However, as I said earlier, it is important that we recognise that the challenge of refugees and migrants cannot be solved at national level alone. We must also cooperate internationally so that we can put an end to the injustice that is taking place now that people on the run are being put at risk of life and people who do not need protection are using the asylum system as a bridgehead into Europe. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, but we look forward to the debate and are, of course, available, both today and afterwards, for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305132909	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305132913	Thank you. Unfortunately, I am not surprised that the government does not support the resolution because the government consistently rejects resolutions from other parties, despite the fact that there are plenty of resolutions which then turn into legislative proposals. But let it go. I really hope that the government believes what the government said in 2018, namely that we should stop seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark, that asylum treatment should be in a country, a third country that could be in a nearby area, and that we should no longer have the transport across the Mediterranean, up through Europe and to Denmark, and that we can thus get rid of the people who are sitting here, have also sought asylum and are not entitled to it, and that we have a great deal of difficulty in getting rid of it today. But does the Minister not recognise that when you introduce a stop to seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark, on Danish soil, then we should not give up the right that refugees can get help from us, then it will limit traffic to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133024	I think that the proposal has the challenge, the problem, that if a person today knocks on a police station and says he wants to seek asylum, he will be accommodated in our centre system and deal with his application for asylum. And if rejected, most of them will be sent out. There are lots of problems with the system, but there is also much that works in the system. If they said that we had a total ban on asylum, that is to say that we refused to deal with their asylum application, we would not be able to send them to Afghanistan or Somailia, because we would not know if they were at risk of persecution, and none of us would want to send a person on a plane if we risked him ending up in a torture cellar. So we would risk great accumulations of people on whom we refused to deal with asylum applications and who would have to live illegally in Denmark and work black on the bottom of the labour market, and I do not think any of us have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133125	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133126	As the motion for a resolution and comments show, what we are saying is that the people who seek asylum should do so in the neighbourhood. The best thing is if it's so little attractive to come up here that they're searching in the first safe country. But if they are going to come up here anyway, we must reject them, if it happens on the border, on the grounds that they are in a safe country, or if that is what the Minister is talking about, that is, within the borders of the country, then we must ensure that they come back and have their asylum case dealt with in the camps in which we think they should stay if they are to have asylum. So the proposal here is not to give up completely the right of refugees to be helped by:
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133216	Well, if a person goes down to Halmtorvet here at Vesterbro in Copenhagen and seeks asylum, and we say that we are not dealing with the asylum application, that we have an asylum stop and that he is going to Kastrup and on a plane and back, then the only place we can send such a citizen to is his own country; if he was Afghan, it would be Afghanistan. But then we wouldn't know 'cause we didn't process his asylum application... if he was gonna end up in a torture cellar. We would not be able to send the person to Pakistan and say: would you please deal with his asylum application? We would not be able to do so unless we have a reception centre which requires a binding agreement with Pakistan. And that is exactly what we are working on, not specifically with Pakistan, but with a third country. That is exactly what we want, but we cannot send him back to his own country, because then we risk him ending up in a torture cellar; that is what he claims he is fleeing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133303	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133303-2	Of course, I was listening intensely to the Minister's speech, and I thought: when will that very tight socialist alien policy come? I mean, it was international agreements, it was the European Union, and now we have to do it with the others, and we can't, and I don't know what. It was just like old times, I thought. I missed that new initiative from the Social Democrat Party: now we have to come after you, and we're just doing this as tight as we possibly can. Then I just have to ask the Minister, and I will come back to that in my rapporteur's speech, about those fine electoral documents where you want asylum in a country outside Europe. I see there is a sharp criticism in Information today of the Minister's, I do not know whether to call it initiative, perhaps just thoughts, but where are we? It is now almost two years from the parliamentary term, and where are we in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133354	It is true that there are a number of organisations, among others. Amnesty International and Danish Refugee Aid, which are very critical of the bill put forward by the government. However, I would like to say that I do not really recall any major legislative proposal from either the current or former Foreign Minister, which has not caused criticism from those organisations. So this is not the first time, and it cannot surprise the questioner either. The reason why I tried to make a rather subdued speech was actually that the intentions I can read behind the motion for a resolution are, in fact, shared, but I believe that a total ban on asylum would risk holding our own. We would risk having a lot of people in Denmark, we would not be able to send out to their own country because we had not dealt with their asylum applications, and we would risk people who had migrated to Denmark from, for example, Denmark. Germany, we would not be able to send out to Germany and say: they have already been in your country seeking asylum, so we should not also deal with their asylum applications in Denmark. That is why I am a little critical of what the surface sounds right, namely a total ban on asylum, but which in practice would end up with a lot of new challenges for Danish society. It was formulated a little dull, I admit, but I thought it was appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133503	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133504	It is true that there are always criticisms, unfortunately, from the various organisations there. I do not think they are very constructive. Actually, I don't think they are. It is always negative and very critical in terms of what comes up with foreign policy. In fact, this is unlike many other organisations in many different policy areas. But that's the way it is, and that's the way it's been all along. But I just have to ask how far you are. I think we need to get there and hear which countries have refused and where we may have an opportunity. In other words, are there any opportunities for us to have an agreement on asylum treatment outside Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133546	Yes, I am by no means copying that possibility, not at all. We have now finished presenting our idea, both to countries in Europe and to countries outside Europe, and we have narrowed the countries outside Europe with which we want to be in dialogue, to such a good handful of countries, and we are actually spending a lot of time on that now. It is also in line with the fact that we have tabled that bill, because I think it is natural, when we enter into such a dialogue, that we also ensure that Danish legislation is allowed to actually implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133618	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments, and then we start with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133640	Thank you. With this resolution, New Citizens are proposing to abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark. After all, the government is working hard to establish a new asylum system, and we have already made some progress. There are discussions with relevant third countries and like-minded European countries on how such a system could be put in place outside Europe. I hope and believe that we are constantly moving with small steps in the right direction, and this is important because in this way we can maintain the historically low asylum rates that we currently have, and we must remember that too many of those seeking asylum in Denmark are not really refugees. A large proportion are migrants from the Middle East who want a life in northern Europe, and one can easily understand that, but that cannot be done. It is not economical where too many would be on public support, or culturally, where too many have values that are supported in the Muslim world but do not enjoy support in Denmark, and therefore it is important that we have a new asylum system structured. From the observations made in the motion for a resolution, I can of course read that the Social Democrats and New Citizens share some of the same concerns in this area, some of the same frustrations that are linked to the current asylum system. It supports trafficking in human beings, it is expensive, it is dysfunctional and it is unfair, and so it has the consequence that today we have massive problems in integrating people who originate in the Great Middle East, because too many people have come here, in terms of how integration has been able to keep up. This has created serious problems both here in Denmark and in Europe, and indeed for the world's refugees, because it means that we spend a very large amount of money helping a very small group here in Denmark, of which too much of this very small group is not really refugees at all. That is why we also have the ambition to reform the asylum system so that we can have more humanism for the money, as some people sometimes say. We hope that New Civil and other parties in the Folketing will support our efforts to reform the current asylum system, because it will be of great benefit to Denmark, it will also be of great benefit to the real refugees of the world, because then you can focus on them in the world instead of focusing on those who come here, too many of whom are not actually refugees at all, but are people seeking a better life. Social democracy does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133912	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133915	Thank you. Will the so-called new asylum system of the government and social democracy continue to be able to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305133928	Yes, the concept of the new asylum system is the day on which it is hoped that it will be possible to establish an asylum in Denmark, then you will have an initial asylum treatment here, and then, if you are really a refugee, you will be placed on a flight outside Kastrup Airport and then sent to the third country with which we may conclude an agreement, and then accommodated in the reception centre established outside Europe. That's the whole idea of this. Therefore, it is also my clear expectation that we will see very quickly that very few people will seek asylum in Denmark, because I do not think that those who come from the Third World, neither the huge group that is not refugees at all, nor those who are really refugees, have any interest in being accommodated in a safe centre outside Europe, they want to go to Scandinavia, but that is why they will also very quickly stop going to Denmark if they can see that what is happening is that they are put on a plane quite quickly and flown back to a country outside Europe. That's the whole reason for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134032	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134033	But if it continues with the new asylum system of the Social Democratic Party, it will be possible to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark, so come up here, travel through several safe countries, seek asylum, then the problem with the many people today, approx. 1,100 people, rejected asylum seekers who are sitting in Denmark and who refuse to leave, despite the fact that they do not have the right to asylum, are still here and maybe even get bigger, because the desire to sit here must be greater than the desire to sit in some third world country. Can the Social Democrats not see that this is not a solution to the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134112	Well, then I don't think I've explained our model correctly. They will not be sitting here, that is, the formal, the preliminary paperwork will be done in the way that they will have to have their case dealt with here, and then it will be relatively quickly over, and then the trip will go to Kastrup Airport and move on to the third country where the centre is located, and then you will be accommodated there, that is outside Europe. I don't want a lot of people staying here. That's the whole point of it. Therefore, it should also be the case that when people can see that this is what happens: that they come to Denmark and quite quickly get out of Europe again, they stop coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134145	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134146	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. If it is the case that the Social Democratic Party is as concerned as we are about the influx of asylum, why is it that higher benefits are offered to certain groups of refugees who have come to Denmark, knowing that it makes Denmark an attractive country to seek asylum and even allowing refugees to stay in Denmark if they have a job, despite the fact that there should be peace in their country of origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134212-2	To conclude, it was true that a new so-called occupational scheme was set up, in which, if you were in full-time employment for a longer period and were here on a temporary basis, you could have a new basis for residence, but in practice it has not given a residence permit to anyone. I know no one has been granted a residence permit on this basis. So in this way it does not have such a detrimental effect on it, sir. Marcus Knuth mentions. We have discussed the issue of benefits many times, almost regardless of what resolution or draft law we have had in this Chamber, and the reason is that we said before the elections that we thought there was a need to rethink the benefit regime in Denmark because there are too many people who are receiving too high benefits. There are too many where incentive structures are wrong. Then it may also be that there are some places where things are going the other way, I cannot say that, but a performance committee must therefore make some recommendations and try to analyse that. While waiting for the recommendations, we have made a temporary family allowance to protect the poorest children in Denmark. A large group of those children have foreign background, and a small group of those children have Danish background. But that is a temporary grant of 500-600 kroner, as I recall. a month, which only applies until we have a new service regime, which I hope we can make a broad agreement on in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134325	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134325-2	I think it's interesting that sir... Rasmus Stoklund calls the effect of the social democracy's own bill harmful, if someone actually took advantage of it, and that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund welcomes the fact that the scheme allowing refugees to stay in Denmark has not been used by anyone. Why, then, introduce it at all? But let me ask you another question. Now the Social Democrats are talking about this opportunity to send asylum seekers to a remote place and then do asylum treatment there. How close have you got to it? They say that you are in dialogue with countries, but are you six months, one year, ten years, 20 years away? Well, where are we, just like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134400	Now that I formulated myself that way before, it was actually an attempt to solidify myself with Mr. Marcus Knuth and try to put me in his place and say that if you think it is such a terrible arrangement, then I can please Mr. Knuth. Marcus Knuth admits that no one has taken advantage of it. It was just like that. In addition, I do not think that we should be so concerned if there are productive people who take root in Denmark. But please don't do this. This is a completely different discussion. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in several interviews that he has a good dialogue with a number of countries and that he hopes that within a year you will not block everything in the eternal future, and hopefully it will not, because among other things. Mr. Marcus Knuth's party is so constructive in the negotiations to reopen Denmark so much as to be able to move forward with some real negotiations with a smaller group of countries. But the Foreign Minister should explain that for himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134452	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. So if the rapporteur wants to prepare for the next rapporteur, I can say that it is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134522	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we share the ambition of the proposers that asylum seekers should seek asylum in the first safe country they arrive at. When you flee to Europe with a desire and a need for help, you have to accept the help that you receive. If you are unhappy with the aid and therefore move on to other countries after another and perhaps better help, then you are probably not as needy as you say. It is no good that asylum seekers can shop between EU countries and say no to the aid offered to them until they find a country where they are satisfied with the social benefits or conditions otherwise better suited to them. That is why asylum seekers must seek asylum in the first safe country they arrive at. It was also a key point in the common vision paper that Denmark presented together with Austria when we had the power of government during the last parliamentary term. That is not just something we say, but it is something we have worked very actively for. We also share the proposalers' ambition to limit the number of asylum seekers in Denmark. However, we do not believe that the proposal to abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark is the right solution right now. In fact, we believe that, if that option is abolished, it will have the opposite effect, and it will also be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. At the same time, it will de facto be a total asylum freeze, which means that Denmark will leave Dublin cooperation, and the aim of the Dublin Regulation is precisely to ensure that asylum seekers cannot shop around the EU countries. In recent years, we have experienced some obvious challenges in making cooperation on this purpose work as intended. We must ensure that this is corrected. We still see the Dublin Regulation as the best opportunity to ensure that Denmark is not overwhelmed by asylum seekers. Without binding cooperation in Dublin, we cannot make sure that the countries south of the Danish border do not merely give free passage to the fact that asylum seekers who are moving towards the Danish border end up here, and then we end up in a situation where we cannot, in practice, get rid of them. We must be careful, although something may seem obvious, not to introduce regulations that will make us a magnet for asylum seekers. Nor can we make sure that we can send asylum seekers who do not have the right to asylum in Denmark back to an EU country to which they arrived in the first place if we leave the Dublin Regulation. The Folketing must respect Denmark's international obligations, and we must work to ensure that those who do not work, as we hoped they will work, work better. We believe that this is the right way forward. For these reasons, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, although we have the utmost respect for the intentions behind it, namely that there should be even better control of the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark, especially from the MENAPT countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134825	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134827	Thank you. It is gratifying to have another party which supports the intention but which, unfortunately, is also another party which does not provide a real solution and which has not come up with a solution in the many years of government power. On the contrary. We saw how thousands of migrants were allowed to flow across the Danish borders and that a lot of people wandered up the Danish motorways in 2015, and it's crazy that you're not ready on that backdrop to do something else and make sure we don't end up in that situation again. When a few asylum seekers come to Denmark at the moment, it is because the whole of Europe has closed its borders. These are limits which the Left is opposed to maintaining. They fought to close the border as migrants approached in 2015. What will the Left do to solve this problem? One thing is that you share your ambitions and intentions, but when you are a party that wants to sit with the government, I also think you have to tell us what you want to do. So what will the Left do to solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305134938	I think the Left has shown what we're going to do for this. When we experienced the nightmare summer in which we were crossed by asylum seekers, we took the lead in a collaboration where, with the good support of the Danish People's Party in particular, we had more than 100 tightenings made in this area, and we had the number of asylum seekers who applied for Denmark significantly reduced. And we are still working to tighten all those that it is possible to tighten, so that, when the world becomes different, because I very much share Mrs Pernille Vermund's view that right now we are in an artificial situation where the corona is enough to prevent us from seeing the true number of asylum seekers in this country and that, therefore, this may mean that there can be a very great deal of pressure. Therefore, it is important that we are willing to turn all these screws again and make sure that we keep a low number of asylum seekers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135042	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135043	Yes, but the dilemma here is that you first turned the screws too late, i.e. you let thousands of migrants come to Denmark, knowing that they were going up through Europe. You acted backwards and everything, way too late. Subsequently, we have insisted on doing small things which, of course, always mean that development is not at the same rate as in our neighbouring country, but development is not reversed. There are years when there are more non-westerns going out than there are non-westerns going in, but an excessive proportion of those coming in are people from Muslim countries, and an excessive proportion of those going out are people from East Asian countries. So quite frankly, do you want to stay on the back side? Isn't it soon time to get ahead of this before we face a crisis again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135130	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135131	There was no doubt about that, and we have learned a great deal from it, and we have just done all these tightenings under the impression that that period gave us, which showed that the external border in the European Union could not hold and that internal cooperation was not good enough at all. Much has happened on that front since then, and we are prepared to do more all the time to make sure that we do not ever get back on track again. We will even go so far as to say that, if we are in a similar situation as in 2015, we will introduce a complete closure of the Danish border until we have managed the situation again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135211	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There's a clock coming on, but it's hiding behind that little screen. It doesn't matter, I can just talk). Yeah, that's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135253	This is an excellent proposal. The Danish People's Party would like to support it. I can say from the outset that it is not possible to do it right now and here and all sorts of things about the fact that there is one and the other and the third in the way. In any case, I believe that such a proposal and such a discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly today will make it possible for more pressure to come from in here, in relation to what we can do about this problem. I very much agree with you, sir. Mads Birded, and I don't know if Mr. Rasmus Stoklund also mentioned that as soon as the corona crisis is over, we will feel enormous pressure again. There's no doubt that the corona crisis has stopped much of this, and that's why we don't see as many as we've seen. But we still look away too many. I would say that, as I have said, the Danish People's Party is pushing a lot for the government, with the Minister in the lead, to honour the promise from the election campaign that asylum should not be sought in Denmark, but that asylum treatment should take place in a country outside Europe. We need to take this matter up on a regular basis in order to know how far we have come. Whether we should do it with proposals or oral questions or consultations, or what do I know, we simply have to do it the sooner, the better. After all, there are many countries in the Middle East and North Africa which are totally backward and unfree countries, often governed by dictators and corrupt governments. Religion Islam is unfree and controlling, and male chauvinism is totally destructive to modern life. Europe stands for many migrants as a place of freedom, wealth and opportunity, a paradise on Earth. It is not always, it is when they come here, but it is at least much better than what they come from, because we stand ready with all kinds of services and help, and I do not know what. It is an end in itself for many that you can be supported by the state all your life without having to work, and there are also a lot of basic free courses. I believe that there should be in Denmark too, but I also think that it has been a major factor in discovering it in the wider world and now looking for it. Access to welfare benefits determines the number of asylum seekers. There is no doubt about that at all. Over the past many decades, refugees in the Middle East have sought Europe, and so far there is nothing new about this. The war in Syria sent a lot of people on the run in 2014 and 2015. When we talk about it, we can still see the pictures for our inner gaze of the flight and the approach on our motorways. In the summer of 2015, many migrants enter Europe via Greece, and as Macedonia changes policy and allows migrants 3 days of asylum, many use it to travel across the country and further up into Europe, which has been difficult in the past. The Macedonian route is also cheaper to travel in relation to crossing the Mediterranean, although of course it still works on a very, very large scale. And it's not pleasant to look at for anyone. It's not, and people are risking their lives. Many of them also get rid of it. It is very, very grotesque to witness, and very often it is paid by people behind it, which means that some can come here and that others absolutely cannot. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, opened the borders of migrants. We all know the term "Wir schaffen das": We can do it, we just have to do it. And Sweden opened up the policy of the hearts. And then we stood here in Denmark and had to receive a great many, with whom we have problems and continue to have problems. I also very much agree that since you now have the policy that you say you have on the part of the government, why do you continue to bring some things that just make it more attractive to come to Denmark and stay in Denmark? Well, we shouldn't do that. Surely we should set up barriers. So I very much agree with this proposal. Yes, it is a resolution, but let us adopt it and then move on to it. I was also thinking about what Mrs Pernille Vermund said when I sat in the chair of an earlier proposal in which the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party was actually adopted. But there was then a bill from the government, and it has always annoyed me that you cannot be open, regardless of which government sits for the opposition's motion for a resolution and says: we will vote in favour of it, and then we will come up with all the legal in relation to a legislative proposal. I just want to say this because I felt the irritation when I was in the chair earlier. This should not be noticed, but there I felt the annoyance that a motion by the opposition, tabled as a motion for a resolution, has been rejected, but it will then come as a legislative proposal. I think we should be much more open to that. It's just that it's been said outside of this proposal, but now I just found occasion for it. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135754	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135759	I just want to thank you for your support. I fully agree that we talked about earlier this day, after all, it was a good resolution that came from DF at the time. Today we have dealt with a legislative proposal which is virtually identical to what we dealt with a year ago and where the thumb was turned downwards by the government. I hope, of course, that at some point the government will turn the thumb up and ensure that there will be no longer the possibility of asylum seekers living in Denmark, even those who were rejected. But thank you for your support. I would just like to ask a question about what has been said earlier. I can understand on the Left and it can of course DF cannot defend the fact that the Left believes that Denmark will become a magnet if you stop giving access to seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark. Perhaps Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard can explain what that means?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135855	Like Mrs Pernille Vermund, it interprets it very squarely, and that is actually what it is, although it may be a slightly different way than Mr Vermund. Mads Fuglede put it out on the floor, all I can say is that I'm just as puzzling. I do. Because that's what has to stop. We must have a stop to spontaneous asylum applications; we must not have them. It is also mentioned in the proposal and I think it is fine that there may of course be cases where it should be possible to do so. I have to say that I think that what is in Information today is very unconcerned when you say that you will do it, if it is possible to find a country that is willing to conclude a binding international agreement with Denmark on this matter, blah, blah, blah, blah, if you can say so. So, I simply think we need more, and I can promise the government that the government will be stopped before the next election campaign, because it is an election promise and perhaps the most important electoral promise that should be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135948	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305135950	Thank you. That brings me to my next question. It was my clear feeling after the 2019 parliamentary elections that a large part of the reason the Social Democracy got a lot of votes and DF lost votes was that it might have been a little cynical and analytically assessed what was needed to fork the votes that were held with DF. The people who voted for DF had simply been analysed for 10 years, and then something was said in 2018 that went on to solve these problems, and where are we now? Does DF have confidence that the problems will be solved when the Social Democratic Party sits at the helm?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140032	No, unfortunately we do not, because it is the case that for us it is more important that things are done than who does. Actually, I'm totally cold on that. It means so much to the Danish People's Party, and it means so much to me that we get this cleaned up, so if anyone really thinks a hundred percent that something has to be done about it and wants to do it, then it's fine with me. However, it may be an expression of a modern policy that sometimes is difficult to follow, that one is so focused on focus groups that it is quite clear that one has been with the Social Democracy. It's smart, but if it's wise and if it's good for the Danes, I'm not entirely convinced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140115	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140118	But I was most inspired to take the floor now because there was such a discussion about the work of the Social Democrats between Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mrs Pernille Vermund, which I do not recognise. I was only elected in the last parliamentary elections, and I have been part of the party's grassroots and youth policy work in my younger days. I published a book about e.g. this issue of foreign policy, in 2016, and I have, as long as I have been active in the Social Democratic Party, argued that we should tighten up our foreign policy thoroughly. I was only glad that our President, when she stepped in, had that ambition and that she started that work. And to reduce our immigration policy to something that some in a focus group have told us, I simply think is unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140210-2	I'd say both-and. And I'd like to say to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that I do not question Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's real intentions. Well, let me be blunt and that is a compliment: I actually think that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is more DFs than he is a Social Democrat and it's meant nicely. So I don't question that at all. But there is no doubt at all, and perhaps this is another discussion, that the Social Democrats are a party which has so much staffed a sea of people, a sea of analysts, a sea of experts who can go in and say: what are we going to hit there? And I think it's fine that it's done, but I just need to know if it is because you really think it a lot yourself, or if it's because some experts have told you that you should think so. I have no doubt, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, I must say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140304	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140305	First of all, thank you for the compliment. I take this as a compliment, because I know how much Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard cares about the Danish People's Party. And I would also like to say that in fact many people write to me every day that I should be a member of the Danish People's Party or New Citizens' Party and there it is not always meant as a compliment, I would say in return. But that is how I see it now, when it is said by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Then I would say to this that we have a sea of people employed: yes, we have just as many employees as all other parties here, compared to how many seats you have in the Folketing, but our political positions are firmly established with politicians and in our hinterland. We are firmly committed to the immigration policy that we have put forward and we are working every day to implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140343	Well, I'll hold that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund up on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140348	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140401	Thank you. New citizens would like to abolish the right to apply for spontaneous asylum in Denmark. This is a violent and in many ways problematic proposal, I think, which in no way contributes to ensuring a fairer asylum system, but that is probably not the aim either. There is no reason why I repeat here from the platform what all the spokesmen of foreigners from all parties have repeated several times in the media, namely that the asylum system is unfair, does not provide adequate protection, finances a mafia of traffickers and so on. Instead, what I'm going to try to talk about is what I think there's too little focus on. Most people like to support help in the neighborhoods. It has also been mentioned by the proposers here, which I and the SF very much agree with is an imperative, but I still have the merit of seeing what the bourgeois parties really think. In addition, I find it disgraceful that, although there is a lot of criticism about an asylum system based on spontaneous asylum, which, with a deeply inappropriate incentive structure, encourages hasty travel towards Europe, the only humane and functional alternative to spontaneous asylum, namely the quota refugee system, has been worked against. For 30 years, we have coated the Danish reception for asylum with patches and unthought out hoofs. I recognise that the international asylum system cannot be reformed tomorrow, and that is why I also have patience with the government with regard to the establishment of reception centres in third countries, for example. But I really do not understand why Denmark does not accept more quota refugees and thus participate more actively in the scheme, which is after all the best we have. In my view, therefore, the first step towards a fairer asylum system is to welcome more quota refugees in the future so that we can regain the credibility of international negotiations and push for an asylum system that helps the weakest first and does not cost lives in the Mediterranean. But we certainly cannot support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140601	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140604	Thank you. In 2018, the Social Democratic Party presented their proposals for a new asylum system, which means that people who come from afar and travel here and probably have their asylum case dealt with in Denmark should be sent to a camp in a third country. Does the SF support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140627	It depends on what it looks like when you get it fleshed out. That is why I cannot answer it, and that is why we are not just going to give the Social Democratic Party a mandate to organise it exactly the way they want to do it. We need to see something more concrete before we can decide on it. I really think that all parties should have that approach, because you have to see what it is before you can know whether you support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140649	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140650	It is actually a healthy attitude, but may I ask what the SF itself intends to do. So, SF acknowledges that the current system is dysfunctional and inhumane. The SF recognises that the quota refugee system is all else equal and humane. In my world, it is only sensible and humane to ensure that the people who then come here are rounded up by values that are compatible with ours and that they come in a limited number, which we control year by year, whole families, and that they are willing to enter a Western everyday life. But what will the SF itself do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140728	We generally work for a fairer distribution. We are working for Denmark to take more quota refugees, so we go ahead and show other countries that it is the way to go to have a more systematic and fair distribution. We also feel OK with reception centres in third countries, but if you are going to make them, there must also be some conditions appropriate to the Danish situation, so that we can vouch for it and, of course, comply with international conventions etc. So these are some of the things we want to work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140754	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140820	Thank you for the floor. New citizens are putting forward a proposal which is not legal and therefore it does not really make much sense to deal with it. It follows from the United Nations Convention on Refugees that Denmark may not expel or reject a refugee in areas where his life or freedom may be threatened by reason of race, religion, nationality, membership of a social group or similar bodies unless the refugee is considered to be a threat to Denmark's safety or, following a conviction for a dangerous crime, a danger to society. In addition, it also follows from the European Convention on Human Rights that inhuman and degrading treatment must not be subjected to. The protection of it has an extraterritorial effect, and this means that Denmark cannot send a person to a country if there is a specific risk that it will be forwarded to it in breach of the rules laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights. There is no doubt that we would like to see better conditions for the asylum system in relation to the way it is organised today, so that it could more closely follow some quotas under the auspices of the United Nations. But now this is the proposal we are discussing today, and New Citizens can then write on the social media that the proposal has been put forward. However, the Radical Left cannot, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140953	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305140957	Thank you. I did not expect the Radical Left to support the proposal either. As I understand the Radical Left's policy on asylum, we are in favour of this division within the European Union, where it is the European Union that has to decide how many refugees there are going to, for example, Denmark. For good reasons, we are deeply opposed to this. However, somewhere in between there is a proposal from the government that they presented in 2018, i.e. before they received government power and support from the Radical Left. Is this a proposal which the Radical Left expects to support, in other words with what we know about the proposal today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141032	We have to see what the proposal is, after all, and with whom an agreement can be reached, etc. What we know at the moment is the draft law, the draft law currently in force, with the legal basis for it, but it is not very concrete in terms of what we are really thinking. What is quite clear to the Radical Left is that we think it makes the best sense to create a common European solution in this area. It's the only path we can see for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141100	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141102	But that really means that if it stood for Radical Left and God forbid it when it comes to foreign policy, then it should be the EU and some people who sit far from Denmark and without being able to feel the consequences of the decisions they make on our behalf, who should decide how many Muslim migrants should be distributed to Denmark, with the great challenges it presents for our society, for equality in our society, for the conditions of Jews, homosexuals, etc. Does the Radical Left really believe that this is justified?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141141	I very much believe that this is justified. If you are to create a reception centre outside the European Union, it makes sense that it is the European Union that stands for it, so that you do not have 27-28 different centres. I think that is difficult to administer, and we really find it difficult to see how to be realistic. At the moment, we just have to say that Greece and Italy have a very heavy burden on their own, and that can cause a lot of inappropriateness. That is why we need to ensure that this is done in a proper way, and it is not done today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141212	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141214	It's just two things for Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard. So it is not possible to distribute at EU level because we have a legal reservation. It can't be done. That's one. The second thing that cannot be done is to make proposals in the Folketing, which are illegal. That's what Mr. Kristian Hegaard, and it actually fell to my chest, because under no circumstances can it be done. No party makes illegal proposals in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141240	It is quite true that we have a legal reservation, and this is very regrettable because it is a factor in preventing police cooperation across borders which would be highly appropriate in view of the fact that we are seeing an increasing number of cross-border crimes. Unfortunately, criminals are better at specialising than they have been in the past, and it would be appropriate if this could also be the case for the police. That is why I strongly regret to confirm that Denmark has a legal reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141311	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141312	Which means that it is not possible to distribute refugees either. So don't do that policy in the future, because that is not possible. And I'd like to ask, sir. Kristian Hegaard to withdraw, that any parties make any proposals in the Folketing, which are illegal. Because no party does. So there is a very sensible law office that controls such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141332	I do not believe that it is possible in practice to stop spontaneous asylum, as is proposed here, because it would be contrary to international conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141343	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I do not see Enhedslisten's rapporteur, so the next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141422	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the new citizens for a very interesting proposal. This is an interesting debate we have here. The majority of the parties, not now the Radical Left, but at least, as I hear it, all the blue parties, plus the Social Democrats, take the view that the current asylum system does not work. So the big question is: what are we doing to actually get it right? We Conservatives believe, as a starting point, that the way in which refugees are received is through the United Nations quota system. We have, among other things. were in favour of giving priority to some of the most persecuted in the world, persecuted Christians and other religious minorities. Unfortunately, we have not received a majority in favour of this. It goes without saying, of course, that we only want to open up the quota system on the day of the spontaneous influx of asylum seekers and, of course, the overall integration in Denmark. In addition, I also think it is worth noting that we, at least the VLAK parties with the support of the Danish People's Party and some of the time from the Social Democratic Party, actually carried out 114 tightenings in the four years we had the power of government. It actually made Denmark go from being one of the absolutely most attractive countries to seeking asylum in order to fall down at least for Western Europe to one of the least attractive countries. This shows that the tools we have in the toolbox are working. In addition, I would say in relation to an absolute ban on asylum, that it was also we who introduced the possibility of pulling in the so-called emergency brake, so that if there are many asylum seekers in a short period of time, we can say that if you stand on the Danish-German border, you cannot enter Denmark, you must seek asylum on German soil. Now it is not we who have the power of government, so I do not want to say exactly where we Conservatives are going to say that it is necessary to pull the emergency brake, it is the government that has that responsibility now. I can just say that I sincerely hope that it is not just a smokescreen that the government has brought with it this story of an asylum processing centre outside the borders of the European Union. I sincerely hope that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is right when he indicates that there may be a decisive development that we may be able to be in line with it in a year's time. This is something that we in Conservatives want to support the Social Democracy one hundred percent, we just need to see something concrete. However, as I said, our ambition is that we should not be able to seek asylum in Denmark, which must be in control of Europe's external borders, and we are willing to look at further tightenings if we return to government offices. In any case, we would certainly like to look at rolling back the relaxations that have already been brought about by the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141707	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141711	Thank you. Now it is the case that the law adopted on this emergency brake means that you can only pull on the emergency brake once the damage has been done, i.e. when the migrants are that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has confirmed at a meeting. So it's not too late to pull the emergency brake? This isn't an asylum stop. That is, of course, to say that we recognize that we have major problems today, but we are willing to let the problems continue until the damage is so great that we dare to draw this line. Should we not draw the line now and say: we will not end up in that situation again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141754	As I understand the emergency brake, it provides the opportunity, as we have done now in Corona, and as we did in part during the refugee crisis, to say that we are now closing down, for example. for ferry crossing from Germany or closing the border and saying that we should apply for asylum on the German side. Then you can ask when the damage has been done. After all, there is no figure in the law as to when you can pull on the emergency brake. It is very much up to the government. But there is the possibility of being able to refuse at the border. The overall point is that with the EU system that is currently under the Dublin Regulation, we must apply for asylum in the first country to which we come. So we also very much want a more international dialogue on what can be done so that people do not wander through Europe at all. Today, therefore, there are more and more like-minded countries that do not want people travelling through Europe either. I also believe that this is the case with Austria's Prime Minister, who the Prime Minister has just been in Israel with and we would like to work with them so that people do not reach the Danish border at all. However, we are pleased that it was we who introduced the emergency brake so that we have at least the tool to be able to pull in if necessary if there is a new refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141854	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141856	I hope that it is out of ignorance and not that we try to blind the Danes, but it is clear from the observations made by the law that this emergency brake can only be pulled when the damage has been done, that is, when there is a critical state in the country, which makes it appropriate, if you can put it that way. And we have specifically asked about this in the Minister's office, and he has confirmed that this is the case. You cannot leave, just because you see migrants flowing through Europe, pulling in the emergency brake in Denmark. That's what we want. We do not want us to be in a situation where they are first inland and therefore we cannot get rid of them again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305141935-2	As I understand it, and I believe that our minister was also asked about this when we had government power, it is the case that if in the future there is a situation similar to that which arose in 2015, the emergency brake can be pulled and people can thus be refused asylum at the border. I have the impression that that would be possible. I may have misunderstood something altogether. But that is certainly the purpose of the emergency brake. But we want to do everything we can to get as low an asylum rate as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142007	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. And then it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142031	Thank you, President. I could see that my friend had lost his arm... he just picked up and ran. Then we just hear a very loud sound we run out and there are people everywhere. It's dark, and the power's out. I'm probably 10 meters away from them and I'm trying to see. Then I can just hear something that whispers past my ear, and then everything turns yellow in front of my eyes. This is not a scene from an American action film, but a fugitive's story to the local newspaper in Aarhus. Let me make it clear that we in the Free Greens will always show empathy for and never reject a person who knocks on Denmark's door for help. We in the Free Greens will always help those who are persecuted because of their race, nationality, sexuality or political attitude. We in the Free Greens will always help those who have fled from torture or inhumane and degrading treatment. And we in the Free Greens will always uphold the conventions that stem from the thought of Western values, which have laid the foundations for, among other things. the right to seek spontaneous asylum. Has it not always been a Danish value that Denmark protects those who seek protection from atrocities? The right to love whoever you want, the right to cultivate the religion you want to worship, the right to have the political attitude you want to have all these values are Danish values, and the people who are at risk of torture or imprisonment because of these values, of course, must always be protected. Unlike New Citizens, we want to help. We want to help in the neighbourhood, yes, but we also want to give protection to those who come up to Denmark and seek asylum. These are people who are fleeing rape, torture, war and also for other reasons. It may be their belief in the ideals of freedom that we in Denmark regard as our own. Based on the content of the proposal, we in the Free Greens can understand that New Citizens do not want to help, for example, the Yazidi woman who comes and knocks on Denmark's door because she has been raped and sold as a sex slave by ISIS for a number of years. New citizens also do not want to help the little boy who has fled chemical attacks. New citizens do not want to help or live up to Denmark's international obligations at all. Denmark must always be a pioneer country in terms of helping other people, so we make an example to dictators and vicious regimes and show that in Denmark we support the vulnerable people. We must show the world that in Denmark we live up to international obligations. So back to the neighbourhoods: in the Greens, we are in favour of strengthening protection needs in the neighbourhoods, but not at the expense of the right to asylum at all. Then there is the myth that all refugees seek asylum in Europe. There I just want to say that actually seeks about 80%. the protection of the world's refugees in the neighbourhood, either in their own country or in countries in their region. And yes, Denmark takes some responsibility internationally, but not big enough at all. Denmark can easily assume greater responsibility for people on the run. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142418	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142422	Thank you. It is quite simply wrong when the rapporteur says that we are not prepared to help the Yazi woman flee or other refugees. It is specifically stated in the motion for a resolution, and it is stated in the comments that we will help where we can help most of the funds we allocate, and that is in the neighbourhood. So when the rapporteur claims otherwise, it is factually wrong or outright falsehood, and it is therefore inconvenient. Having said that, the rapporteur says that we should not fail to help in Denmark because we want to help more people in the neighbourhood. The fact is, however, that, regardless of whether you allocate the funds that the rapporteur wants to allocate or the funds that other parties want to allocate, the funds are best spent if we help where we can help most for the money. For each person we help in Denmark, we would be able to help ten in the vicinity. This means that the cost of helping the person who has travelled through several safe countries to come here and tell his story, for example in Aarhus, is equivalent to helping ten in the vicinity. Is it human? Is that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142532	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142534	I don't know what the question was. It was more of a speech in favour of the proposal. I didn't actually catch what the question was for me. However, I would just like to say in general terms about the proposal and the premise underlying the proposal that we do not recognise it in the Free Greens. We'd like a paradigm shift. We do not recognise the premise that we must stop helping refugees who come from a particular area or have a particular religion. We are against this. It is against the Danish values. We have always had a proud tradition of helping people regardless of skin color, religion and sexuality, and the Free Greens are fighting for that. That is why we cannot in any way support the proposal, because the premise in the proposal is that you want to close off from the fact that you do not want refugees, that you do not want diversity, that you do not want people to go to Denmark. We do not share that view in the Greens. We're not afraid of immigrants. We're not afraid of the stranger out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142638	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142640	[Sound emission]... Free Greens are not afraid to fail the many at the expense of the few. What the Free Greens are arguing for here is not just to destroy Denmark. In fact, it is also the case that the elderly and the children who are left in the vicinity, who may not be the ones who get first in the rubber boats, are being let down because we choose to spend the money on the young men, who typically are the ones who reach Denmark. That is neither humane nor proper, and that is what my first question was about. Do you really think it is humane and proper to help the few at the expense of the many?
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142720	What destroys Denmark is proposals like this. What destroys Denmark is that far along the way we have become xenophobic in our asylum and alien policy. It destroys Denmark. That is the problem. If it were for the Free Greens, we would have to help citizens if they came here and we would have to increase our aid to the developing countries. We need to do much more, both in the neighbourhoods and here in Denmark. One does not exclude the other. What, in my view, destroys Denmark is an attack on Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142754	Thank you for that and then the next one for a brief comment is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142759	But, sir. Mr Sikandar Siddique outside the groups, I just have to ask, given that there is such a speech from Mr Siddique. Sikandar Siddique: How many will you receive in Denmark? Is there no limit at all? At least I didn't hear it that way. It was as if anyone seeking asylum could come to Denmark, and I actually see that as an impossibility. Is there no limit at all to Mr. Sikandar Siddique's patience in relation to how many people will come and destroy Denmark with another culture that is not ours? At least now it has come out quite openly that Mr. Sikandar Siddique just wants to say: the gate up, everyone can come in, no matter how many. I do not see this as a positive thing at all, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142846	Let me start by attacking the premise again. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard asks: is there no limit to how many people can come to Denmark and destroy I do not agree with the premise. The vast majority of citizens who have come to Denmark have been an enrichment for Danish society. The vast majority of citizens who have come here are an integral part of Danish society. I do not agree with the premise. That's one. The second is: No, of course Denmark cannot help the whole world. Of course we can't help everyone in the world. But we can help far more than we do today. We can start by taking 500 quota refugees. If it was for the Free Greens, we'd have to take 5,000 quota refugees. But to say that we cannot help more people than we are doing today, we do not agree with the Free Greens, and then we do not agree with the premise that what comes from outside is dangerous and destroys our Denmark. I believe that the fact that you are not humane, that you do not help your fellow man, destroys Denmark. So the answer to the question is: of course we cannot help everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142949	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305142951	I did not get an answer to the question of the border in relation to culture enrichment, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique puts it out. I should just like to mention one specific case. At the moment, we are completely destroying our defence to the corona because of the cultural enrichment that is destroying it around the ghettos, because they are completely indifferent. And I'm not gonna listen to that about them being bus drivers or health professionals. There are many Danes who are. By the way, most of them are unemployed. I find it appalling that one might think that we have a cultural enrichment in relation to what we have been subjected to, and I am totally opposed to it, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique just stood up and pleaded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305143030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305143031	And I do not want to listen to what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard stands for. I just don't want to listen to it, just don't listen to it, don't listen to it at all. I don't want to be a part of this. I don't want to be a part of the insolence of our citizens, our fellow human beings. I do not want to be involved in a rhetoric which casts out a lot of citizens who are currently acting as corona heroes and who are currently standing as front workers and driving a bus, driving a taxi, cleaning, while all of us are sitting at home safely with our families. I do not want to be in the mood that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has led over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305143111	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has signed up for short remarks. We shall then give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens' Rights. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305143136	Thank you. It is very funny that a nurse or sosu assistant with a non-Western background is more likely to be infected with covid than a Dane who is a sosu assistant or nurse. It is not really connected, so after all it has suffered from culture, origin or language. Thank you for a good debate. It is true, as many have said, that the number of asylum seekers is low as a result of the corona crisis. This is positive, but it must not make us forget 2015 when migrants wandered on our motorways. In recent months rubber boats with migrants have crossed the English Channel and migrants have flocked to the Canary Islands. Several people continue to drown in the Mediterranean. This confirms that the current asylum legislation is dysfunctional and inhumane. It supports trafficking in human beings, and it helps the few at the expense of the many. Until the corona crisis, politicians excused themselves that it was not possible to impose an asylum freeze, but the crisis has shown that it is only a matter of political courage whether or not to stop spontaneous asylum. Just before the corona crisis really broke out, we saw how there was a new migrant crisis going on. President Erdogan of Turkey declared that he had opened the gate and that he would let millions of migrants take against Greece and Europe. If we in Denmark want to know who we are letting into our water, then we must introduce a stop to spontaneous asylum now. That is why I and New Citizens today make proposals on this. An asylum freeze is the first step to curb the damage. It will simply remove the motivation to be smuggled here and thus destroy the stumped business of the smugglers. The current asylum legislation is causing considerable damage to Danish society, and at the same time it costs a great deal of money. The average annual cost of an asylum seeker who shows up at the Danish border and says asylum is approx. 300,000 kroner. In addition, there are approx. 1 100 rejected asylum seekers, with whom we are also concerned, because they refuse to leave and therefore are illegally staying in Denmark. The price for them is also on average approx. 300,000 kroner. annual. In total, the failed immigration policy costs Danes 33 billion. kr. a year. We could help many more people fleeing for much less money if we were to help refugees in the neighbourhood only. Access to asylum has attracted thousands and thousands of migrants who have neither the will nor the ability to live peacefully among us Danes. This is the main cause of the deep damage that our society has suffered over the past 40 years. To a large extent, the current asylum legislation acts as a magnet for migrants who do not share our values, do not comply with our laws and who directly oppose our freedom, democracy and the rule of the people. This means that the damage is increasing every year. There will be several Danish victims of criminal asylum seekers, and the bill for public support, the social services and the criminal services will remain massive. We must not continue to harm our country and support an inhumane asylum system. That is why we must abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark. This can be done with relatively simple legislative changes without conflicting with international obligations and conventions. In May 2019, the predecessor of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said that an asylum freeze does not conflict with Denmark's obligations to the UN Convention on Refugees. And, as you know, the Dublin Regulation is a voluntary arrangement for Denmark, which we can terminate at any time because of our legal reservations. In other words, it is only a lack of political courage and will that stands in the way of abolishing access to seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark. In February 2018, Mrs Mette Frederiksen presented her ambition to abolish spontaneous asylum and introduce a fair asylum system with reception centres and asylum treatment outside Europe. And in his speech at the opening of the Danish Parliament in 2019, the new Prime Minister promised to lead the work on a new asylum system. I was delighted about this, but unfortunately we have not seen much action in the next two years of the Socialist Government's power. On the contrary, we have consulted the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration more or less to the point of making plans. Now I understand that the government is going to put forward a legislative proposal to ensure the legal basis so that asylum seekers can be sent to a reception centre in a third country where they have to stay while their cases are being dealt with. I look forward to hearing more about this, but I fear that the government does not have the political courage and the will to resolve the problems from scratch. Will the government's forthcoming bill end the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark? The answer today was no. Will the government's forthcoming bill allow the right to asylum in Denmark to pass? The answer today was no. Will the government's forthcoming bill continue to make it possible to travel through many safe countries to seek asylum? The answer today was yes. I hope, of course, that the government will come up with better ideas and, as promised in this area, will take the lead in resolving the problems, even if it requires Danish unification. We're gonna have to stop patching things up. That is why we have today considered this proposal to abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark. I think it is tragic on behalf of Denmark and the Danes that there is no majority here in the Danish Parliament. Why continue to let the Turkish Islamist, President Erdogan, act as a border guard against bribery; why continue a dysfunctional and inhumane asylum law that supports human trafficking and helps the few at the expense of the many? Why continue to inflict great damage on Danish society, even for the Danes' own money? Our task as elected representatives is to look after Denmark and the Danes. We owe that to previous generations, and we owe it to our children and to those who have to come after it. Unfortunately, when our proposal is voted down, it means that we do not protect the Danes, our borders and our society. The next wave of migrants will hit us as hard as it did during the migrant crisis in 2015 and 2016. It's dangerous. It is dangerous for our cohesion, it is dangerous for our community of values, and that is why we are continuing in the New Citizens' struggle to put an end to spontaneous asylum, because we must look after our country and the Danes. In conclusion, I would like to thank both for the floor and thank the DF for supporting the proposal today, unfortunately, as the only ones. I understand that other parties support the intention, it is parties that have been sitting with the government over the past 20 years, but which have still not solved these problems. For every year that passes, for every new migrant who comes here, who does not bring anything positive with him, but who on the contrary harms our country, you hurt Denmark and not well, and you assume that responsibility when you are not willing to stop for spontaneous asylum in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305143936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one else to speak in this debate, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210305143950	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament is Tuesday, March 9, 2021, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
