ParlaMint-DK_20211015100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100019	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100026	Every year, the defense sends many talented and courageous men to the world's hot spots. Here they participate in the solution of the international tasks of the defence and thereby contribute to Denmark's security. Our sendees risk their own security and their own lives for the benefit of all of us, which is why it is of course extremely important that we, as a society, take good care of our former sendees and their families. With the proposal to amend the law on defence personnel, we will ensure that all veterans and their relatives receive the necessary support after deployment. As the law stands today, it is already possible to provide financial compensation to injured veterans as well as their relatives and survivors, but some special groups have been found to have received a benefit to which they are not entitled under the present legislation. We must, of course, have this corrected so that those who have received the benefit so far do not have to pay it back and that they will be able to receive the aid in the future. That's what I'm talking about. In concrete terms, this is about the aid to injured workers who have themselves resigned from their position and their relatives. In addition, there is no legal basis for the children of injured workers to receive an additional benefit and, at the same time, there is a general need to ensure that clear rules can be laid down on the criteria for dealing with cases in this field. I know that everyone in this Chamber is aware that a broadcast can have great physical as well as psychological costs and has consequences for both the sender and their families. The veterans and relatives who are not covered by the legislation today have received benefits precisely because they have paid a high price, which is why we must ensure that the very groups of veterans and relatives can continue to receive support in the future, both in relation to those who are receiving the benefit today and in relation to future cases. In Denmark, we need to take good care of our veterans, and with this amendment we are taking a really important step to ensure that. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill, and I am going to say on behalf of Mrs Eva Flyvholm and Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen that so can Enhedslisten and SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100324	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. It is noted that the two parties have also been represented by the rapporteur's speech. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100342	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by welcoming the Socialist rapporteur in the circle of those who are defensive and alert and who stand up every time the defence needs to be promoted, but also when the necessary legislation is to be made to ensure that our soldiers, our personnel, have the best opportunities. That is the first speech as a defence rapporteur, and that is why I would like to say a few words, not cortexes, because it is not me to do so, but I would like to add that it is young men and women who fill a greater and greater part of our defences, and I think we are all very pleased about that. Otherwise, this is a relatively small proposal, but it is of great importance to the individual. I cannot add much more than what the Socialist rapporteur has said here, except that of course the Left also supports this proposal, which is of great importance to the individual who has been sent out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100443	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100449	Thank you very much. I also fully endorse what has been said, both by the Socialist rapporteur and by the rapporteur from the Left. It is necessary to get this law in place so that, of course, the people who have left the service of their own motion will also be covered under these rules, because of course it needs to be corrected. This is something that has been going on over a long period of time, I think it is 8-10 years, so it is time for it to be corrected. I think it is a good thing that this initiative is being taken and I thank the Minister for the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100526	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see the rapporteur for the Radical Left, but I do see the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Welcome to sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100537	Thank you very much. A great deal has already been said and written, and I would also like to welcome Mr Seligman. Mogens Jensen on the team. It's a pleasure to get a capacity with your strength in. Much has been said about this proposal and we fully endorse it, and I have no further comment to make on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100557	Then I can thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then I do not see any more parties represented, and so I welcome the Secretary of Defense to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100611	Thank you. I would like to thank you for your contributions and for your broad support for the draft law here. Every year, Denmark sends out a large number of employees from the Ministry of Defence's area abroad, where they participate in Denmark's international tasks. A broadcast can cost a lot to the individual both physically and mentally and also to the individual's family. It is therefore vital that, after a broadcast, we take good care of our veterans and their families, which is why we have just strengthened the veteran effort by 50 million. kr. Towards 2023, mainly to benefit the most affected veterans and their families. I would like to thank the parties present in this Chamber for contributing to this strengthening. In addition, a family unit has been set up at the Veteran Centre. This was important to me when I joined as a minister, as there has been a long-standing desire from families in particular for strengthened advice. The family unit ensures a quick and local response to families and other relatives of veterans. A wildcard scheme has also been introduced and it means that veterans on early retirement with ptsd can have a link with the labour market during the periods when they are well, but with a guarantee of having early retirement to fall back on if they should get worse again. Another and important part of the aid for injured veterans is the possibility of providing financial compensation in the form of a monthly benefit. However, it has been found that a specific group of injured veterans and children have received a benefit to which they have not been entitled under the present legislation. And even if they are not covered by the legislation, they are still veterans who have suffered physical or psychological damage in connection with a broadcast, and it is the veterans and families who have naturally arranged to receive the benefit they have been awarded. That is why they should, of course, continue to receive the benefit. The draft law here therefore seeks to extend the monthly benefit scheme; we will ensure that the group of veterans who have been awarded the benefit without being covered by the legislation can continue to receive the benefit, but we will also ensure that there will be a legal basis for us to be able to grant them the same benefit in new cases involving the same group of injured veterans. And then we will ensure that a legal basis is created for children to receive a benefit if their father or mother has been injured during a broadcast. I would like to stress once again how important it is that we look after our veterans. We owe it to them after the efforts they have made for Denmark. The draft law is therefore an important initiative to strengthen support for veterans who have paid a high price to protect Denmark's interests. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for the good cooperation in the field of veterinary medicine and for the comments made here today. I look forward to a constructive discussion of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100926	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and it is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015100932	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for the speech. I fully share the point of departure that we must look after our veterans and their families. I would like to ask you about precisely the efforts that we are offering our veterans, and I would like to address a small specific and also very overlooked corner, namely the corner called service dogs. Because we know that when veterans come home with, for example. Ptsd, there are many veterans who enjoy having a service dog with them when you e.g. I'm gonna go shopping. But not many people in public know the concept of a service dog, and that means that many veterans are being pointed at when they, for example, are being pointed at. want to take their dog to a shopping mall or into a store when they're shopping with their wife. I would really like to ask the Minister here: could the Minister imagine making an effort to provide information so that people would be more aware of what a service dog is for a size, in other words a little in the same way as we know that visually impaired people can bring dogs into shops or buses? Could you imagine the same thing in relation to veterans' service dogs?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101047	There is no doubt that service dogs are absolutely crucial for some of our veterans. After all, it is the municipalities that admit service dogs. It is outside the powers of the Veteran Centre. The Veteran Centre can help to connect with the municipalities, but it is within the municipal framework that they are allocated. On the other hand, I share the experience in relation to the veterans with service dogs I have met, i.e. the experience that there is no understanding in society. This is about the fact that people who meet a service dog are going to talk to it and applaud it, even though it is a dog who is at work and has to focus on the veteran; it is also about the understanding that they cannot come in some places. So if there is anything that we can do and that I can do, in coordination with other ministers, perhaps with the Minister for Social Affairs, then I am very happy to do so. In any case, I will take the matter back with me and see if there is anything we can strengthen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101142	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101143	I would like to sign for the Minister's positive approach, and I would like to say that I am very much looking forward to the Minister for Defence contacting the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly in order to strengthen the awareness of service dogs. I hope that the Minister for Defence will inform both the Defence Committee, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly and the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly, so that we are all jointly updated on what action the government is proposing. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101212	But it is quite natural to discuss defence developments, including in the field of veterans, with the rapporteurs. We have a good and constructive dialogue. I would say that when it comes to information on service dogs, it is probably more on the table of the Minister for Social Affairs than it is on the table of the Minister for Defence, but that should not prevent a good dialogue from taking place across the two committees.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101241	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that this bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101259	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101317	Thank you. We have all heard the stories of good, law-abiding citizens who are struggling with severe pain and who have tried with a number of painkillers, but are still struggling with the pain, and therefore self-medication begins with illegal cannabis. Self-medication with illegal cannabis is obviously not a good way to be treated for its pain. This poses major challenges for patient safety, and it is unworthy that seriously ill patients must commit illegal acts and deal with criminals in order to alleviate their pain. Therefore, four years ago, a large majority of the Danish Parliament agreed on an experimental scheme with medical cannabis, because the Danish Parliament wanted to create a sound framework for the use of medical cannabis in health care as an alternative to buying illegal cannabis. At the same time, the Folketing decided to make it legal for companies to grow and produce medical cannabis. As we can see from the evaluation and the experimental scheme, thousands of people have made use of it. We can see from the evaluation that the Danish Medicines Agency's review of side effects has not found safety problems with cannabis end products, but we can also read from the evaluation that there is room for improvement, for example. to improve knowledge of the scheme and it will take more time. The experimental scheme was due to expire here at the turn of the year, which is why I am also pleased that a large majority in the Danish Parliament decided back in May to extend the scheme so that doctors can print medical cannabis for another four years. Hopefully, this will create better knowledge of the system among both doctors and patients. The second part of the agreement is that we permanently make it legal for companies to grow and produce cannabis products. We have seen how on Funen, for example, we have succeeded in developing cannabis products in cooperation between farmers and researchers. By making the scheme permanent, we create calm in the area, and we make it more attractive to invest long-term in growing and producing cannabis products. This will hopefully once again mean that we will have more, cheaper and better products on the market for the benefit of patients who benefit so much from this. At the same time, we offer Danish companies better opportunities for exporting cannabis products to the rest of the world. I can read in the hearing answers that large patient organisations such as Danske Patients and the Multiple Sclerosis Society generally welcome the extension of the trial scheme. Of course, the cannabis business does the same. All in all, I believe that Parliament did the right thing back in 2017 by introducing this experimental scheme. We have made a scheme that can benefit a group of patients who previously had no legal alternative. But I am absolutely sure that this scheme can do much more and can benefit many, many more people. Finally, I would just like to thank the parties, the broad majority of the Folketing, which are behind the agreement and which will allow us to extend this arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101638	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101644	Thank you so much for helping me extend this trial scheme. Unfortunately, we had it organized in a framework that was not scientific enough for us to have the evidence and the scientific setup that enabled us to obtain the knowledge that made the doctors safe in relation to printing it. So there were hardly any doctors who wanted to discharge it, among other things. due to a rather inadequate treatment guidance. It takes a scientific setup to get it done right this time. It's gonna cost a little money. Will the Socialists help to see how we can now get the evidence and empiri that puts it in the scientific framework required for doctors to be comfortable in printing medical cannabis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101729	It's not big amounts we're talking about, but it's going to cost a small million dollars to extend this scheme. It is also part of the government's proposal for a Finance Act, where money has been set aside for it, and it will then be negotiated in the future, i.e. in the negotiations that are taking place under the Finance Act forward-looking, also how much money should be set aside for this scheme. It is, of course, within the framework agreed by the Danish Parliament's parties that we can act and find out what can be done. But from the government's point of view, at least an amount has been set aside to extend this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101808	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101810	Yes, and it is not just to extend it; it is also to make the scientific setup that we really lack and which has been very wanted. Can the rapporteur reveal a little bit about what kind of money it is that can be used for it and whether it is the scientific part of the setup that you would like to spend money on?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101830	Yes, the government's financial bill shows that 5 million have been set aside annually. kr., that is to say 20 million. kr. for a period of four years, for this scheme. It is clear that it depends on a financial bill debate with the parties that want to be included in it, exactly what this amount should cover, and also whether the amount should be different, but it is the future negotiations that decide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101859	The next brief remark is from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101902	Thank you. In response to the rapporteur's comments on the reservation of the 5 million. kr. I would like to say in the Finance Act that, as I understand it, the 5 million. kr. reserved for medical cannabis supplements. It may well be a bit surprising in itself, in other words, that the government is not ambitious. Now, of course, I myself will be speaking in a minute, and I will deal with it. The 5 million. kr. As a matter of fact, the number of patients today is similar to that of about 500. Can the rapporteur not reveal why the Socialists are not more ambitious? Is it not imagined that there will be more patients who need medical cannabis subsidies in the future, since they have not reserved any more on the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015101944	Well, now I represent the Social Democracy and not the government. There will be a representative from the government later, who will then be able to explain exactly what the government's thinking is. But I represent the Social Democratic Party and I stand at the goal of the government... at least this government... also in this context. I note that this million-dollar sum has been set aside in the Finance Act, and then it is one, what can be said, stretched hand both to that area, but indeed also to the rest of the Folketing to negotiate. This will always be the case, and I am sure the Left will also be able to recognise this from the many years that the Left has had the government, namely that there will then be a negotiation proposal, and on the basis of this we will find out together how much money will then be set aside. And it is clear that if there are parties in a debate, and this is the case here, in all other areas that have specific priorities, there are some wishes, then there is every interest in getting the Cabal to go up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102048	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102049	Yes, I fully understand that the Minister will, hopefully, take the floor at the end, so it was a mistake on my part. I do not hear that the Socialists have the mind to lift the amount here from the 5 million. kr., and that certainly says something about the level of ambition, but I would like to ask the Social Democrats something: How do we deal with the challenge that doctors demand a new treatment guide so that they feel more comfortable in printing medical cannabis? How do we deal with the challenge of e.g. Is there a lack of protocol for knowledge gathering? It doesn't address this bill. What is the Social Democrats' response to the doctors who are asking for both a protocol of knowledge collection and a new treatment guide?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102138	The first thing I would like to say is that I do not deny that another amount can be set aside. I say that exactly how much money is to be set aside depends on a debate, and it is not certain that it will be in this Chamber, because it will probably be in the Ministry of Finance. All I can say is that the financial bill provides for this million dollars, and the parties that want to take responsibility and be part of the agreement can then press for it to be where it should be. If there are wishes from doctors, in terms of how they can get more security for this to come into use, we are very open to looking at it and to enter into a dialogue on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102219	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. It's Mrs. Jane Heitmann. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102238	Thank you for that, President. Here we are again. It is about the trial scheme for patients' medical access to medical cannabis; this time an extension of the existing system. We also stood here years ago when we decided in Denmark that we would like to give companies the opportunity to grow medical cannabis for both the home and export markets. The business community has welcomed the possibility of becoming firstmoves and has seen the opportunities to both help four very different patient groups and at the same time secure export earnings to Denmark. Exports to Germany in particular go awesome, which is why it is good that the bill here gives companies the opportunity to grow cannabis permanently for medical use. There are large investments and new jobs at stake in a slightly cramped gardening industry which, compared to the production potential of medical cannabis, has seen the chance to ensure business expansion opportunities. And that is, and has been, good for an area like this. Funen, which very much needs new growth jobs. However, it is no secret that the experimental scheme was born with a number of beauty stains, and we politicians in this Parliament must take that responsibility on board. We must also recognise that, with the adoption of the pilot scheme back in 2016, we moved down a path that we had never politically trodden before. Although many were well pleased that among others. Sclerosis and pain patients joined the trial scheme and had better access to medical cannabis treatment, so there are many patient groups, e.g. gout patients and epilepsy patients who are too sorry not to be included in the trial scheme. Among other things, it has. I would like to make it clear to the House that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is a good one. I would like to dwell a little on a few other beauty stains with which the experimental scheme was born and which have not been dealt with here. I must not hide the fact that we on the Left are sorry that the government, with the bill, does not provide doctors with better treatment guidance or some sort of protocoled knowledge collection. More knowledge and research are needed, and the Left will raise the wish during the negotiations on the research reserve. Knowledge is essential for more doctors to feel safe by printing medical cannabis. Today there are four foreign preparations on the Danish market after 4 years • not a single Danish. This is partly due to the fact that the Danish Medicines Agency has, to put it mildly, been foot-timing when it comes to permissions for Danish manufacturers, and it is a pity for Danish cannabis companies who need the Danish market as a showcase, and for Danish patients who could benefit from Danish quality cannabis. As I read the government's financial bill, only 5 million have been set aside. kr. For supplements to medical cannabis. If the aim is more preparations on the market, then we must also expect, Minister, that the subsidy part will increase, and I am surprised that the government is not more ambitious. 5 million kr. is equivalent to approx. 500 patients' supplement, i.e. approximately the status quo. Last but not least, I must not fail to note that the draft law here is based on a political agreement of May 2021, which has also been endorsed by the Left. The agreement states:... the parties agree to discuss a continuation of grants to patients for the purchase of medical cannabis in the trial scheme in the autumn. This week we have at last been called to a negotiating meeting, and that is absolutely crucial so that we can have the decisions reflected in a future report's contribution. It is good that a political agreement has been reached to extend the experimental system and to make the cultivation system permanent, but there are immense gaps in the cheese, and we in the Left have also lifted that in the course of the negotiations. There are many challenges that are not reflected in the bill here. If we are to maintain our firstmover effect, it is absolutely crucial that Danish producers are guaranteed the same opportunities as other EU producers, and this must be reflected in the legislation. It acts among other things. on the long processing times within the Danish Medicines Agency. While in Denmark we only have foreign products on the market for Danish patients, Danish manufacturers export medical cannabis to German patients and the German market, among others. Because Germany is extremely effective in the case of processing applications for products. And it's crazy that Danish patients do not enjoy Danish quality products. The slowness of the investigation by the Danish Medicines Agency can sometimes look like a mere leg span, and this is a matter that we on the Left will pursue in connection with the examination of the bill. The former VLAK government allocated additional funds to the Danish Medicines Agency to ensure rapid processing. We still have the benefit of seeing the effect of this. If we are to make the cultivation system permanent, we must do it properly so that it is future-proof for both patients and companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102752	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102758	Thank you for an excellent speech. It is so good that Mrs Jane Heitmann is so deep in this matter and dares to say things as they are. The first one here is actually a bit of a comment: Yes, the Danish Medicines Agency is foot dragging. It is almost impossible to get approved preparations for use in Denmark. On the other hand, you can export them to Germany, where we can fortunately export many good Danish preparations, and it is of no use that we do not have a Medicines Agency which is able to be so flexible that we can get approved Danish preparations, also because we have to have the same preparations over a long period of time in Denmark to ensure research into it. I have just heard that one of the few remaining stable preparations used by 200 patients has just been discontinued. So my first comment is: Thank you, and the alternative will support very much to ensure flexibility within the Danish Medicines Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102847	I would just like to acknowledge the comments made by the alternative here, and I fully agree with the rapporteur that action is needed. We can do much better, and I hope that will happen. I can hear that we are at least fully in line with the alternative to putting ourselves in the position to create a broad majority so that the system can be a success, so that we get better treatment guidelines so that knowledge is more protocoled, so that there are better instructions for product authorisations and so that there are cultivation guidelines. There are so many corners in this, where there is room for improvement, and I will be very happy if the Left and the Alternative can cooperate on it, hopefully together with a broad majority here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102935	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015102936	Yeah, I don't think there's any more parties involved in getting this under control. Following on from what the rapporteur says, we also come to the economy. Because it is quite right that 5 million have been set aside. kr. of over four years, but I also thought it was for grants, and that is not even an increase in the subsidy. So it doesn't even involve any more patient groups. On the other hand, we are totally lacking in financial funding for the scientific setup, which must deliver in relation to all the wishes mentioned by the rapporteur and which the alternative also has. Will the Left help to push for the economy that is needed for us to have the scientific setup, which means that in four years' time we will not be able to extend the experiment again?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103014	Yeah. So, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we will raise it during the negotiations on the research reserve. That is where we will put forward the proposal for funds for protocol-based knowledge collection. We in the Left will also present our draft Finance Act, and here I can tell you that we also reserve a larger amount for processing instructions, for learning portals and for a database. So, yes, we would very much like to help push for the government to set aside more funds for an absolutely necessary area too, which is in excess of the 5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103052	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is present in the Chamber, so this is the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Welcome, Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103105	Thank you for the floor. It's not SF's health rapporteur who's standing here right now... you're gonna have to settle for me. We in the SF would like to support the bill to extend the trial scheme with medical cannabis, as we can see that for some patients it has had a beneficial effect in relation to among others. Pain relief. We also believe that the experimental scheme has run too short for us to see the actual effects. It is irresponsible to stop and it must be done properly, otherwise it is taxpayers' money out of the window. That is why we also want doctors to be more involved, to continue to carry out ongoing research in this area and to relate to the fact that not everyone can afford the products. It creates inequality in health. We know that several people have experienced problems in obtaining a prescription for medical cannabis from their general practitioner. We need to provide doctors with better guidance. We also know that patients think that prices are too high and therefore they are being bought in other ways illegally. We are pleased that the Danish producers are granted permanent production permission, but it is of course important that their products can be sold to Danish patients. We know that there are issues that are not addressed in this bill, but we are confident that the Minister and the Contracting Party are prepared to discuss them, both experimental arrangements and prices, later. Of course, the Minister can confirm that. As I said, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103244	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Knowing that the rapporteur has indicated that the rapporteur is here instead of another rapporteur, there is nevertheless a request for a brief comment to the rapporteur from the Left rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Trine Torp I try to answer as best I can).
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103307	After all, I noticed that Mrs Trine Torp mentioned that we need to ensure better treatment instructions for doctors, and I cannot say this clearly enough: on the Left side we are in complete agreement. I just want to ask SF: How will you ensure better treatment guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103325	A prerequisite for making better treatment guidelines is also that we get more knowledge, and so far as I have understood the arrangement and the agreement that has been made, knowledge of side effects has mainly been collected, which must be reported by the doctors, i.e. as has been gained from experience. It is clear that some research is needed in this area if proper treatment guidelines are to be made. So, of course, it's connected. And this is, of course, essential to getting proper guidance for doctors, because this is also what is necessary for patients to be able to give proper informed consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103405	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103406	Here, too, I fully agree with the Socialist People's Party. More knowledge is needed. After all, the rapporteur heard my rapporteur's speech, where I mentioned that we will raise it here during the negotiations on the research reserve. After all, the Socialist People's Party has the opportunity to raise the issue of the economy during the budget negotiations, because it costs to generate knowledge. Which way will the SF go? Will you support the wishes of the Left during the negotiations on the research reserve, or is that something the SF will take into the financial law negotiations? It's just like that to get a sense of how wholehearted SF throws itself into the fight here for Danish patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103448	Well, we have the common challenge of both the Left and the other parties to the agreement that when we made the political agreement about this in the spring, no money was set aside for it. So we have a common task in finding the money that is needed, in order, on the one hand, to be able to extend the system if that is what is needed and, on the other, to be able to ensure that we have proper research in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103517	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Stinus Lindgreen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103529	Thank you. I was just wondering whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party could come up with a speech that was broken, but I do not want to interfere with that. There are more competent people who can decide on this. But thank you for the floor. We're gonna discuss medical cannabis. Unfortunately, I was not lucky enough to sit here in the Folketing when the scheme was adopted back in 2016, but I have spoken about it elsewhere over the years. And just to destroy the good atmosphere, I can say that we are not in the agreement reached in the spring. It is not because we do not see a potential in medical cannabis; it is obviously a plant with bioactive substances, and it is also known that it can be used positively in certain patient groups. But my concern is that, like, the process is turned a little upside down here and does not require the evidence in place before you start using the medicine. And all the criticisms that have been raised since the introduction of the scheme, and yet it has been chosen here not to address it directly and not really address it. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot see ourselves in an agreement when we cannot know exactly what we are saying yes to. To continue something that does not work is not, in my view, the optimal use of our resources. On the other hand, we see a lot of sense in perpetuating the sector. There are a lot of companies that are in the process of building capacity, which now have the opportunity to develop their products, build knowledge, build evidence, and that is positive, and they must be allowed to continue to do so. Many of the weaknesses in the experimental system have already been mentioned by previous rapporteurs. There is a lack of treatment guidance for doctors, which means that doctors naturally do not feel comfortable about having to prescribe any medication that they do not know the effect of, do not know the side effect profile of. It is also a burden on patients because there are many people who believe that they can get something that they unfortunately cannot get. At the same time, in the four years we have unfortunately failed to collect structured knowledge, structured experience from the experimental scheme, so that we could have been wiser today, and that is why, unfortunately, we are about where we stood four years ago and that is a shame. We have not become much wiser, and it has been clear from the outset, and it is therefore annoying that we have not dealt with it in the past. That is why I would like to ask from the Radical Left that we divide up the legislative proposal, because we support making the business sector permanent, but we are rather sceptical about the experimental system as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103758	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first, Mr President. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103803	There is one thing in the rapporteur's speech that I simply do not understand at all. It sounds as if the Radical Left will not support a scheme until there is evidence that it is working. But in order to get evidence that it works, we have to do a study, a scientific setup, where we print it to patients, get patient feedback, do data collection, etc. How will the Radical Left do it without trying?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103832	As I said, this has been well known since the start of the experimental scheme, and the changes that should have been made along the way have failed. It is not because it has cut down on both patient associations and medical associations who have said that there are problems here and that we should do better. When we were negotiating the agreement back in the spring, I took part on an equal footing with my fellow rapporteurs here and raised precisely these issues. I said that if the Radical Left is to see itself in this, we must deal with the problems that exist. As I said, there is potential I fully acknowledge that, but when you can't see and don't want to make up for the obvious mistakes that are, I find it hard to commit to voting for anything without knowing exactly what we are saying yes to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103906	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103907	Well, this is exactly the process to correct the mistakes that have been made. We get four more years. We're doing a scientific setup. We are doing everything the rapporteur wants to do to create the evidence to reassure doctors and then the Radical Left says no. That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103927	The agreement as it stands here is, after all, a continuation of the system as it has been in the last four years; in other words, the errors that have been made have not been corrected. It is possible to do so, and I welcome that and I hope that some will do so, but I just find it difficult to see that we can vote in favour of something that does not correct the mistakes that have been well-known for several years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103944	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015103946	Thank you. In fact, I recognise the approach of the rapporteurs, namely that the draft law here does not correct the beauty stains that are, as I also mentioned. And it is not a secret that we on the Left raised it during the negotiations, and we are sorry that the government has made it clear that the bill here has not had an interest in correcting it. Now we must try again for the forthcoming negotiating meeting here on 3 November to see where it can take us. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur now wants the bill to be divided and supports the permanentisation of the cultivation scheme, does the rapporteur recognise, in addition to this, that companies need Denmark as a showcase, just as we know it from, what should we say, other companies in the life science industry, where the domestic market is of enormous importance in terms of export opportunities? Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104051	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I agree with the comments and I also noted that I was not the only one who raised these concerns when we negotiated the agreement back in the spring, which unfortunately was not met. To answer the rapporteur's question, yes, I fully acknowledge that. I also believe that companies have a responsibility to ensure that the necessary tests are carried out and with evidence show that the product they want to sell actually works, as do all other companies in the field of life science. But I fully acknowledge that Denmark is a fantastic showcase for this industry too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104122	Then there are no further brief comments to the radical rapporteur. And I see no one from the Enhedslisten present, so that is why it is now the Conservative People's Party. Welcome to sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104137	Thank you for that, President. As you know, we Conservatives are also not included in the agreement to extend the trial system of medical cannabis. We weren't in 2016, and we're not in now either. Of course we are enthusiastic about the business sector, and if it is the case that there is the possibility and majority to divide the legislative proposal into two, we would, of course, very much like to participate in it, because, as I said, we are enthusiastic about the business sector. After all, the 2017 experimental scheme, which is now being extended, has not provided security for any of the things that have been criticised. The Medical Association also writes in their hearing answer that it is essential that an experimental scheme provides an answer to the question of the safety, efficacy, dose and frequency of the product, side effects and the mode of administration of the individual patient groups. Further reference is made to the Danish Medicines Agency's assessment, which states that during the first 21⁄2 years of the trial scheme, no information has been provided to clarify whether the treatment with medical cannabis has the desired effect. Danish Society for Clinical Oncology writes: • The extension of the trial scheme still does not address that it is a medical responsibility to prescribe medical cannabis. Thus, the doctor is required to inform about the effects, interactions and side effects. As these data are still not available, the doctor will not be able to obtain the informed consent which is a legal requirement for the prescription of treatment. Therefore, many doctors will continue not to prescribe medical cannabis. On the basis of the above, the Oncologists find no reason, or evidence, for the extension of the medical cannabis trial scheme. After all, we Conservatives believe that medicines should be approved through the regular channels so that all risks and side effects are elucidated. This hasn't happened in this case. You should have made a proper attempt and made sure that these things were in place. So we cannot therefore support the draft law in its present form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104356	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104403	Thank you. I am not surprised, therefore, that Conservatives do not support the bill, because they have never supported it here, and they were also excited when we wanted to give money to the patients who should have it discharged. But I am surprised that you support it so that you can grow it. How is the logic of wanting someone to grow it while you don't want someone to take it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104432	Well that's quite logical, because there is a market around the world in terms of wanting to buy the product. And, of course, the Danish producers must also have the opportunity to make a business out of it. However, I do not think we are helping the Danish producers very much with the model chosen in Denmark, where there are still a lot of open questions in relation to what the medical companies also point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104458	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104459	This is one of the most double standards I've ever witnessed. It must be because you want to support your business customers, for • wow! Well, it's double moral, so it's batter. There I would like to hear: who is going to take what is being grown if it is not some patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104525	Well, that is also the whole problem, namely that there has not been a proper clinical trial compared to this one, where the product has been held up against other products, described side effects, interactions with other medicines and, in general, dosing guidelines. There are so many shortcomings in this that it is quite inappropriate. That is also what medical companies are pointing out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104549	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104553	Thanks for the speech. We very much agree that the cultivation scheme must continue. However, with regard to the scientific setup which the rapporteur also mentions and which has not been done properly, there is nothing to prevent us from doing so now. Well, it's not like this bill's gonna lock the trial in a way so we can't do it. This is the moment for us to do it. It is right now that we need to create the evidence that enables us to allow patients to use this in Denmark too and allow doctors to be safe in printing it. Why are the Conservatives not helping to create what is being called for instead of just wanting to stop the scheme and take all the medicines out of the hands of all the pain patients who use it every day?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104633	Well, there are several issues in it. First of all, if it is the case that you have to have proper clinical trials, where you get the information you normally get when you approve a medicine, then it will surely cost a lot of money, and where are we going to get it from? In other words, it is inappropriate to go in and approve a medicinal product in the way that has been done here. Medicines can have side effects that can be harmful, and they are unknown in this context in relation to interaction with other medicinal products and in relation to dosage guidelines and other things. I think it is quite inappropriate. And it is not the case that it is intended to be possible to go in and press for it to be said that this must be financed, and it must be properly highlighted. That is not what has been proposed, and it is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104726	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104727	The rapporteur does not think that we will be in the same situation in four years' time. Because, of course, it's up to us. That is what everyone wants, that is, to make a system that lasts so that we do not have the same problem in four years' time. I simply do not understand why the rapporteur does not get into the fight. Yeah, maybe it'll cost 20 million. kr. to make a scientific setup, and 20 million. kr. is money, but with such a broad agreement with the possibility of financing it through the research reserve and with the possibility of perhaps financing it through the Finance Act etc., that is not the very large amount. So why don't Conservatives get into the fight to create the results that you stand on the platform and ask for?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104803	Well, there's a lot of dilemmas in this. I mean, the money isn't there. I have not heard anyone pointing out that here we could go in and find some means to finance a proper clinical trial, where we get evidence of all the things the medical companies are asking for. That's why I think it's a weird setup you do here. The fact that you get some reports for some patients can't be used for much, because what's the alternative? If these patients had used another product, what effect would that have had on them? These are some things that need to be clarified, and that is what the pharmaceutical industry does when they apply for the approval of preparations, namely that they ensure that the preparatory work is done so that they can produce the data. Unfortunately, that is not possible here, which is why I find it problematic to ask doctors to prescribe some medicine, some cannabis, for which they do not know how it works, for which they do not know the dosage guidelines and which have not been properly tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104859	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104902	I have to follow up on what my colleague Liselott Blixt mentioned, namely this somewhat mysterious position, which does not want to extend the experimental scheme for Danish patients, but would like to extend the system for the production of medical cannabis. Because that means saying that you want to produce for the world market, but the only people who can't benefit from this high quality medical cannabis are Danish patients. So you have to say: either it is because the Conservative People's Party believes that what is produced in Denmark is of such high quality that it can benefit some patients. But why on earth should Danish patients not benefit from it? Or it is because the Conservative People's Party does not believe that it is of high quality and that it will not benefit suffering patients. But why on earth should we support it if Conservatives believe that it is really a piece of shit that should not be produced? I mean, to me, it's a strange and strange position that the Conservative People's Party has taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015104959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105000	Well, we find that there is a market for medical cannabis around, and we don't think we should stay out of that. If the Danish producers are there and can see a business in this, then we shouldn't cut them off to produce it. We can only note that the way in which we have acted so far is quite inappropriate. Now four years have been spent on not getting sufficient records to provide guidance on data, so that risks and other risks can be highlighted, and I think that is inappropriate. If it was the case that you wanted to do this seriously, then you went in and made sure to make a setup so that you could have it approved in exactly the same way as you otherwise approve medicinal products. And then it would certainly have to be with public funding, but then the government would have to find the money if that was what they wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105050	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105051	There is probably a reason why there is a great demand on the world market for precisely this product that we in Denmark can produce of high quality. It's because there are some who want it to ease their pain; it's because it works and can help a lot of patients. And it's strange that the only patients who can't benefit from these high quality Danish medical aids are Danish patients. I think it is a bizarre situation that we would put ourselves in if we listened to the Conservative People's Party. May I just ask briefly: is there not something strange about the fact that if the Conservative People's Party got its way, we would be in the situation that Danish patients as the only ones would then break the law when they wanted to buy Danish products from medical cannabis? Isn't it a strange situation to put Danish patients in that they as the only ones on the world market must break the law if they want to buy high-quality medical cannabis produced in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105205	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105207	Well, I still think it would be useful to make sure that, in relation to the product that you market as a medicine and to which you give subsidies as a medicine, there is a proper description and proper documentation, so that you know that there is no risk in using this product and that there is only a minimal risk in using it together with other preparations. That is why we have a pharmaceutical legislation in this country which is restrictive in many ways, but it also benefits us, because the Danish patients have great confidence that the medicines that are consumed around us have been approved according to the rules that are now in force. I think you should do that with this product too. After all, the government could have set aside funds from the Social Democratic Party to have a proper clinical trial carried out so that it could be documented. I can only say that you did not want to, and I am a little upset about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105308	The next brief remark is to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105312	Thank you. I just get a little curious when I hear the Conservative rapporteur's response to this point of emphasising approval, which I understand. But it also means that the Conservative People's Party is opposed to the quite extensive use of offlammable medicines, i.e. medicines that are approved for one type of treatment or one type of patient, but which are used for some others, for example. Kids? There is a great deal of medicine that is used in children and is not approved separately for children. Is it the view of the Conservative People's Party that this should not be allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105352	Well, there are examples that doctors prescribe something that is offlabel, where there is no authorisation. We have, for example. in writing. - (PT) young children have been vaccinated against covid with offlamable vaccinations, but that is because there is a doctor who has been inside and takes responsibility and says that here we simply have a very vulnerable child, where there is an imminent risk that it may have fatal consequences if they are infected with covid. It is then a medical assessment, and of course there may be a risk with it, but there is, after all, a doctor who then takes responsibility in the given situation in relation to dosage and other things, and I think that somewhere is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105433	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105434	But in this system, the doctor may also have the right of prescription, and the informed consent that patients must give must of course be given on the basis of the knowledge they currently have on side effects and effects. So how does it differ?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105454	It is different in that, for example, when a doctor goes in and vaccinates a small child, even if there is no treatment guide for covid vaccination, it is an estimate, because life and health here may be in such a danger. One can then say in relation to medical cannabis that it is a painkillers, and these are two very different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105522	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Well, that's what I'm sorry about anyway. Because it had disappeared from the screen. I also think I had seen one more person wishing to speak, and that was there. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur for staying on the platform. There is a question for the rapporteur from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105550	Thank you. It is also just to be absolutely sure that I understand the starting point of the Conservatives here. Well, it's the doctor who has the right to prescribe medical cannabis, just like any other medicine. So if a patient is looking for medical cannabis and a doctor thinks that the patient cannot profit from it, the doctor can say: No, unfortunately, medical cannabis is not the right treatment for you. In the same way, if you come and ask for sleeping pills or anything else, the doctor can say no. However, I would like to ask because it is the case with the system here that doctors have tightened the reporting obligation: is it not a security for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105634	Well, it isn't, as long as this product hasn't been through the general clinical consent in the way that you go in and do some tests, where you say: we have some groups here with thousands of people that we go in and treat with this product, and then we have a group that we hold them against and that uses some other drugs or maybe some placebo, and then we find out what the side effects are about this. This is also true in relation to the dosing guidelines and other things. There are simply too many shortcomings in this, so that we can go in and say that we want to help support that around.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105713	So I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. Now there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105724	Well, on a Friday morning, the parliament wakes up, that is to say. When it comes to cannabis, we keep the tab high. New citizens are part of the deal that has been made. We kind of think it's a nice deal. Could it have been better? Yeah, it could. Is there still some missing? Anything to address? Yeah, it's still gone. If there is something I have learned after two years, it is that the agreements you make are not usually perfect agreements, where you can just put two lines under, and then they should never be visited again. That is what they will have to do in the autumn too, because we have been called for negotiations. Should we not agree that we should not use the argument of money, as the Conservative People's Party does? Well, we're talking about 20 million. kr., and we have just over 1,200 billion. kr. in the public budget. I mean, you can't really use the argument: where to find the money? Well, we're talking about maybe 20 million. kr. or something like that. Of course you can find that, and then you have to hope that they will either find it in the Finance Act, or we will find it in some negotiations, for example. on the research reserve or where they are to be found. But you shouldn't put the people who might come with you out there in the eye when you say this is a matter of money. No, it is a question of political will to find each other in relation to the right arrangement to be found, and then it is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105841	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015105901	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we are very pleased that the Minister for Health has had the courage and taken the initiative to extend the medical cannabis scheme by 4 years, and we are also pleased that the cultivation scheme continues thanks for that. My speech will deal in particular with the medical system. It has been quite a failure. It goes without saying that, after four years of the experimental scheme, we will have to extend it for another four years. The challenges of the scheme are many, but they all stem from the fact that we have not made the scientific setup for the scheme to begin with, which could provide the experience of using cannabis as medications necessary for doctors to dare to print cannabis for medical use. There are, for example: no real treatment instructions. The treatment instructions given to Danish doctors are 12 pages. It is written by two authors, mostly one of those who have no experience whatsoever in the treatment of pain patients with cannabis. By comparison, the treatment guide they have in the United States is 468 pages, written by 62 experts and with 666 references. In Canada it is 258 pages, written by 20 experts and with 1,649 references. Fortunately, there is a Danish treatment guide on the way, I can delight the Danish Parliament with, which is made by the Clinical Cannabis Forum, and which will be published in connection with the restart of the trial scheme for medical cannabis. Clinical Cannabis Forum is a professional company for Danish researchers in cannabinoids, medical cannabis, and the researchers have been working with cannabis for a number of years. The guide refers to international expert groups in the field and is based on consensus research published in international literature. So there is something on the way that really, really works, and I hope that my colleagues will help to see very, very seriously on that treatment guide. Another thing that has been completely lacking in the medical cannabis trial has been the training of doctors in terms of learning how cannabis works, how it should be dosed, what preparations work against what sufferings, and how to phase in cannabis treatment without creating too many side effects. But here too there is light ahead. The medical association has nodded yes to a full day course for doctors to dress them in relation to the knowledge needed to print medical cannabis on a qualified basis. So far, so good. But there is still some way to go for the medical cannabis experiment to succeed on the basis of the purpose that we actually set up at the time, and that was quite simply: the experimental scheme must provide a better basis for assessing the use of medical cannabis, namely. What we need to do in order to achieve this is to make a systematic data collection in relation to the cannabis trial, which makes it possible to evaluate the trial scheme, i.e. evaluate these patient processes in a scientific framework. This should not be done under the auspices of the Danish Medicines Agency, but in a scientific institution as with any other scientific development. This requires more prerequisites, and one of them is: Stable delivery of uniform cannabis products, which allows research into the effects of the same preparations on the same patient groups for a long time. Here, the Danish Medicines Agency will have to make the authorisation for medical cannabis preparations much more flexible. Yesterday I heard from a pain doctor that a particular preparation that 200 patients use is now out of the market because there is no authorisation for it. This is the second time that a preparation has been removed from the experimental system, and then we cannot do research, that is, when the preparations disappear. Finally, in order to make the setup so that research can be carried out with uniform preparations, it is necessary to finance it. And if the pharmaceutical industry is not allowed, we must do it ourselves. I spoke today to a cannabis expert who was a doctor and a professor who said: it could cost 15-20 million. kr. to make that setup. New citizens said it so clearly: well, it is money that we can find in a state budget of 1 200 billion. kr. I guess we can help each other find them, because otherwise we'll be standing here again in four years, and we'll be making a fool of ourselves if it's the case that at that time we haven't managed to produce results in relation to this scheme that provides evidence that makes doctors safe to know what they're doing when they print medical cannabis. Furthermore, I would like to see some of the funds set aside for patient grants increased so that we can expand the patient group. Research is also wise to be able to do research in several drugs in an extended patient group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110355	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110402	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the party's alternative, which at the time brought up the proposal, which we supported, so that there was a majority in the Folketing. There were several of the big parties who weren't there. They have joined the car later, except for Conservatives who now want to grow it without wanting to sell it. Does the rapporteur not realize that it is a little difficult, that is to say the Sisyphus task of bringing up something that is being worked against? The question is whether some of the parties that were actually opposed from the outset are involved. It is about the Danish Medicines Agency waiting to approve things, i.e. products that can be sold abroad, but not in Denmark, and about the fact that no money is set aside for subsidies. I know how difficult it was when we got the money set aside for grants. So there I hope, of course, that the alternative this time can push on and get some money set aside for it. So I would like to hear: where is the rapporteur's thinking that the main problems or counter-working are?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110513	For some strange reason, some of the parties that could help to make this happen will not help to make the arrangements that they themselves are calling for; in other words, to make the security of supplies and the evidence and empiri that they themselves are asking for. And then I think the P.D.A. is foot-to-to-foot. I can't believe that it should be so hasty to get approved preparations in Denmark and that the Danish preparations can be exported abroad, to Germany there you can use them but we can't make use of our own cannabis farmers' excellent cannabis preparations Denmark. So, yeah, it's uphill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110544	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110548	However, I also think it is often forgotten to say that money was actually started to be spent on the research reserve for trials on cannabis. That was before the experimental scheme was started. But you didn't do much to sell the idea, and the money had to go to something else. Have there been parties in the Folketing who have worked against the fact that this actually happened? What is the rapporteur thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110614	When the questioner is dealing with such thoughts here, I would say that I am trying to do so outside this framework. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110622	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110629	Thank you. I would like to start by signing up for the rapporteur's speech and thanking him for addressing some of the major challenges both about the legal complex here, but also, of course, in general, about the approach to medical cannabis. I sometimes get that kind of feeling like I think it was John Mogensen who sang it that there's something wrong in Denmark. And when I address it with the fact that something is wrong in Denmark, it is because the rapporteur mentioned that someone is working on a treatment guide that is not the Danish Health Authority. Should it not be the case in a country such as Denmark, where the Danish Health Authority is the highest health professional authority, that a treatment guide comes from the Danish Health Authority to the doctors? Isn't that the way we do it in Denmark? I recognise, and I appreciate, that others are working on guidance in the absence that the Danish Health Authority seems not to have taken the initiative to make one, but is it not surprising to the rapporteur? Well, isn't there anything wrong in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110731	Yeah, there's something wrong in Denmark. And if you look at the 12-page treatment guide that the Danish Health Service has provided to the doctors, it is almost clear that it advises against it.So I call it a sex treatment guide that is almost advised against printing the preparation that it should actually tell about how to be dosed in relation to which patient groups. Well, the Danish Health Authority should have prepared a real dike treatment guide with lots of references to international experts and Danish experts. You haven't done that. Fortunately, there is now a guide on the way, which refers to international expert groups in the field and is based on consensus, on basic research published internationally and on literature. I think we should take a good look at that and maybe even get the National Health Service to take it in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110820	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110823	I am also looking forward to seeing what is coming and, of course, I also hope that the Danish Health Service will take an interest in it so that doctors can get a treatment guide that they are comfortable with. Wherever you are inspired, it must have a professional basis. However, I would like to ask another question, and this is about data collection, which the rapporteur also mentioned. It costs, of course, because we heard the rapporteur mention somewhere between 20 and 25 million. kr. I would like to ask whether this is something that the alternative will take into account in the financial law negotiations with the government, or is that something that the alternative will promise during the negotiations on the research reserve? Which way does the alternative look? It is just to say that we can talk about a lot, but there must also be a little action behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015110912	I very much agree, and I think that both the research reserve is interesting and that the Finance Act is interesting. We will do everything we can, with our small capacity to lift it into the negotiations, and I think we will gain an ear either, because I do not believe that the Minister for Health or the future Minister for Health will bring itself into a situation where we are in the same way in 4 years' time and have to recognise that we have made 4 more years of failure when thousands and thousands of Danish pain sufferers are calling for this to be resolved. There are no exact figures on this, but a non-binding shot from the hip will be that there may be 50,000 people using medical cannabis; unfortunately, we are criminalising the vast majority of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111002	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111005	Thank you. And thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. The rapporteur mentions many things with which I fully agree: we should become wiser, we should collect more data. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with and is aware that even before the trial scheme it was possible for doctors to print cannabis-based preparations for those patient groups where there was evidence that there was indeed an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111031	Yeah, I'm familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111034	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111038	Yes, I thought so, because this is an area in which the rapporteur is very much involved. But what puzzles me a little about the approach to this area is that we usually require companies to provide evidence that some preparation they want to sell works, that it is safe and how it should be used before we offer it to patients. I would like to hear the rapporteur, Mr Elaborians, say a few words about why things are being turned upside down in this scheme and not demanded of companies. Why do others suddenly have to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111105	Well, that's a good question. The rapporteur can, of course, speculate a little about why the pharmaceutical industry has not been interested in creating the evidence and funding the research that is being done in many other areas when it comes to medicines.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111116	There are no more brief comments to the Alternative's rapporteur. There are two speakers left in the rapporteur's line, so to speak. Now it will be Mrs Susanne Zimmer first as a privateist and then Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Welcome to Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111140	Thank you. I would like to start by welcoming from the Enhedslisten and saying that they support the proposal... then I have not forgotten it. There should be no doubt that we in the Free Greens are simply in favour of the legalisation of cannabis cannabis which has been studied and approved and which can be obtained at affordable prices so that everyone can freely buy it when they need it. It could decriminalize a lot of people, from people who grow it in the backyard for their own consumption, to the criminal environment with among others. Gangs. Extending the current system is a small step in the right direction. A total of 10 million was originally allocated. kr. for scientific experience acquisition, which was carried out in five research projects. That was not much and, unfortunately, no more funding has been allocated for more research. Of course, we can only regret this in the Free Greens. Research is always important, but it is vitally important in relation to the practitioners and their desire and confidence to print drugs with medical cannabis, so that as many people as possible benefit and benefit from it. Here it will help doctors if there was more research in this area, and we in the Greens would have liked to see that, just as we want the experiences that are from abroad to be brought into play and that proper treatment guidelines are being made. However, we are pleased that the resolution in the original proposal on various types of knowledge acquisition, on the medical card, should write what the medical cannabis is prescribed for and that there is an increased reporting requirement for suspected side effects. It should very much increase doctors' motivation to print cannabis on prescription. Too few doctors print cannabis on prescription. We have many examples of patients who have tried a lot of medication, and on their knees crying asking for cannabis to be prescribed but which have been rejected by the doctors. It is therefore important that the Danish Health Authority establish a proper dialogue with the general practitioners and have some proper guidance made so that doctors become more comfortable by issuing prescriptions for cannabis and are not afraid of any subsequent replacement cases. In addition to the fact that doctors are very reluctant to prescribe cannabis, it is also very expensive to buy for patients. It can be between 2,000 and 6,000 kroner. a month to be on that treatment, which means that not all patients can afford it. We already have inequalities in health, and we must try to overcome this, and this is one of the places where we can intervene and improve conditions. That is why, on the one hand, we are pleased that the Minister is allowed administratively to improve conditions and increase subsidies; on the other hand, we are also deeply concerned that there is no financial framework and that the Minister will then also have the opportunity to reduce subsidies and even put the regions in the position of not granting subsidies from 1 January 2022. That is why we in the Green Group will, of course, follow this development closely. The high prices often mean that patients buy cannabis on the black market where it is not controlled and where there is no possibility of supervision and follow-up by the doctor. In fact, it is believed that there is only 20%. of the citizens who use cannabis, who get it on prescription from the doctors. Others cultivate it either in their backyard with the risk of being punished. We also have examples of it or have to buy it on the black market. And it is quite unreasonable because there are so many people, really many people who enjoy it. Another problem is, of course, that we have far too few products, and we have to do something about that. That is why we in the Free Greens also think it is good that we get a permanent authorisation for cannabis cultivation on the Danish market. Farmers will now be sure that there is a possibility of sustainable farming, which will of course make it more attractive to grow cannabis, as well as a better environment for the processing industry. It can then be said that in that industry there is then the possibility of a faster and more flexible approval process. A lot of people are waiting now, I think. 30 to get an answer to their application. We need to establish many more products until we in Denmark hopefully get legalised cannabis. Free Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111608	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. There are no brief words of thanks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015111625	There was the woman who had cancer and unfortunately was at the last stage and was lying at home in pain, was anxiety and could not tolerate the medication the doctor prescribed. They had tried various things, and her husband, who was actually a police officer, knew where to get some cannabis and went out to Christiania and bought something for her wife. It was the only thing that helped her the last time before she died. He made himself a criminal, even though it was crime he had worked his whole life to fight. There was the boy with epilepsy who had so many seizures during one day that the parents smuggled cannabis into the food so that he could avoid the seizures that caused him to fall many times and therefore had to wear protective equipment all the time. And there was the woman with sclerosis who obtained cannabis because of spasticity. These were some of the stories that led us in the Danish People's Party to say yes when the alternative came up with a proposal. And yes, it was a reverse story, because, as I asked the Alternative's rapporteur about earlier, a few million kroner was dropped on the research reserve I can't remember exactly whether it was 10 or 20 million. kr. I think it was the Liberal Alliance that was at that time disposing of them with the support of many of us, but no one applied for the money. So when the proposal was made, we said yes, let's get the door kicked in. And that's what we did. No one was satisfied with the solution that came, but at least it was a step in the right direction. This is sometimes the case with politics: you have to take it in salami pieces, a little bite at a time. We made a bill, and we got it through, but it was really expensive products. That's where it was hard. The Danish People's Party got money set aside for grants, and we were some who also dropped money from the rate pool. However, I would say that we fought a great deal against the Conservatives, who would have stopped at that time in several rounds. That's why I think it's pathetic when Conservatives stand and say that you can grow it, but you can't be a part of this. Because you've always tried to tighten your legs so that the rest of us could do something. And that is what we are constantly experiencing. We say 'yes' to this proposal, because if we say 'no' to it, then everything stops on 1 January and that is why we say 'yes' to it. But I believe that two years ago, when the Minister sat in the chair, we should have listened and said that we should now do something about this; that we should have some research, that we should ensure that the products came more quickly through the Medicines Agency. And I would also like to point out that the Danish People's Party set aside money for additional staff in the Danish Medicines Agency, so that this could happen quickly. But nothing has happened! That is why I fully agree with those who are critical, because we need to ensure that some clinical trials are carried out so that it can be documented in terms of efficacy, use, indication and safety. There must be better guidance for doctors, and I welcome the fact that at least something comes from some of those who actually use medical cannabis. And, of course, subsidies for patients' own payments must be guaranteed. This is what we in the Danish People's Party provided with our health pool on the Finance Act, where we also ensured that if you were dying, you would receive terminal grants; that is, you wouldn't have to pay anything, there was no own payment. I know that the Minister has called for debate now. I'll send a substitute. But it is always difficult, of course, when you do not make finance laws together, to find the money, and I would appeal to the support parties to do so, just as we found the money when the Danish People's Party was the support party for a government. And here I stress that it is the support parties of the current government that must draw this into the negotiations, otherwise nothing will happen. But remember: There must be both research, guidance and a faster review within the Danish Medicines Agency. Ensure that there is a rapid review and there must be transparency and guidance on how it gets through. These are some of the points that are being pointed out, and we fully support this in the Danish People's Party. So we say 'yes' to the proposal; we hope that it will not end here but that more progress will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112114	Thanks for a good speech, and also thanks for introducing us to some of the people who need this medicine so much. I can hear that we are in line with the Danish People's Party, in relation to making a scientific setup and finding some money for it. And thanks for the fact that the Danish People's Party has also helped to ensure that more patients could receive support for this scheme. Does the rapporteur not also think that it is a little scraped off what we see from patient support in relation to the money that has been set off? Could it not be an idea to try to find some more money for it, so that we may be able to expand the target groups and allow more worthy needy patients to get their cannabis medicine?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112155	We will do what we can, but now I have been in the Folketing for some years now, and I know how to make both financial laws and how to find money if you are to do it in a unified, broad circle. That is why I know that there are challenges when all the parties sit at the table and that it can best be achieved when those who sit there are the supporting parties that support the financial law that comes. So these are more realistic things I'm thinking about. The research reserve is then a place which the Minister has also referred to could be the place where money was given for research.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112223	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. All the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have been given the floor, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Health. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112238	Thank you very much. And thank you for a very good speech and a good debate on this proposal to extend the experimental system of medical cannabis and permanent possibility of growing cannabis etc. This is, of course, a broad political agreement, but as the debate has shown, it does not cover all parties, and we reached it back in May. And then our officials have been busy writing a bill which has now been in consultation and which we are now dealing with first. And it is simply a direct consequence of the agreement that the government is putting this bill forward and implementing the agreement. The agreement provides for an extension of the medical cannabis trial scheme for 4 years as regards the possibility for doctors to prescribe medical cannabis to patients. In this way, patients will continue to be able to prescribe medical cannabis. In fact, the scheme would otherwise have expired from 1 January 2022. So we're going to extend it. Equally central and important is, of course, the possibility for companies to grow cannabis for medical use, because there must also be some medical cannabis and that scheme is made so permanent. And that is unlike the last time when it was only a four-year element. It is now being done permanently. The aim of making the growing part permanent is to create a really needed clarification in the industry in relation to the very, very large investments that have been made. It is clear that you have to know that you can also get a return on those investments. This will have particular implications for the export of Danish cannabis products, and we thus create a stable basis for the cannabis industry to continue to carry out its activities. Then today's debate has also shown that there are various requests for adjustments to the present experimental system. I very much appreciate the debate and the great commitment to establishing the best possible arrangement. In the first place, it is the proposal itself here, and it is, of course, the implementation of the political agreement to continue the scheme, thereby providing security for companies, of course, but also, of course, for our patients as well. The political agreement does not then have any proposals on the means of adjusting the system, but it follows from the agreement that, in the legislative process, minor technical adjustments can be made to the system, and we also have a few adjustments which make the system more flexible and secure and which, among other things, make it more secure. makes it easier for companies to implement non-significant changes to products with medical cannabis. And it is proposed that in some cases companies should be required to include a suitable medical target in the packages of medical cannabis to ensure that patients can always take the intended dose. It is also true, as several speakers have said, that the political agreement of May does not provide funds for patients' grants for medical cannabis after 1 January 2022, but then the government's draft Finance Act also reads 'and I am glad that it has been proposed by the government to allocate 5 million. kr. annual during the period from 2022 to 2025 in grants. It is the same level as it has been up to now. Then there is a technicality, which is that in the bill here we propose to move the rules on subsidies to a decree. This will mean that a grant scheme can be implemented quickly. And it also allows for forward-looking, if you want to adjust in different ways... it can be an upward adjustment or a downward adjustment... which the Folketing can of course decide that you will then be able to make it more flexible in a notice, i.e. without having to make a change to the law. The political agreement therefore follows that the parties agree to discuss possible changes to the system, for example. subsidies in the autumn. We have then called a meeting on this, and I have also heard several rapporteurs sign that these discussions have been convened. We'll take those right at the beginning of November. I look forward to a good committee reading and, of course, we will be available to answer all the questions here but also in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112737	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are a number of brief comments to the Minister for Health. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112743	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for extending both the cultivation scheme and the medical system. Is it not true that there is nothing to prevent us from doing the scientific setup this time around the system of data collection, patient reporting systems, back-reporting systems and a high-quality treatment guide that will enable us to get this into a scientific framework that gives doctors much, much more knowledge about the area and evidence to be able to print cannabis preparations, so that we will be on a much, much stronger basis when this experimental scheme is over than we are doing now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112828	I can confirm that. There's nothing to stop it. Last time you put 10 million. kr. of, and five different research projects were carried out. The three of them have been reported and the two of them have been delayed, but they are expected to be reported later this year, as far as I know. However, in relation to the three that have been reported, it must be said that they have not generated knowledge that strengthens the medical basis for treating patients with medical cannabis. So compared to the 10 million. kr., one dropped off last time, we have, at least from what we have seen so far, not got the necessary knowledge. So what amount, if any, would be needed if we chose politically to go that way, is surely something to be discussed, and it is obvious to do so in relation to the research reserve, but I will not be able to answer precisely here: will it require an amount? Will it be possible to do so? And what would such a setup be like? It is a bit atypical to go that way, but of course you can choose to investigate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112935	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015112937	In other words, when the Minister chooses to extend the experiment, it certainly does not sound as if the Minister has very much faith in the reports which have been prepared for the time being and which may not point in that direction. I am incredibly pleased that the Minister is saying that we can make a scientific setup, which this time can be a proper and proper research attempt based in a research institution with all the control groups etc. that are needed. I think the Minister can expect more parties to want it and also to find the funding for it. And it is also in the interests of the Minister that we should not be standing here in four years' time and getting such enormous criticism of, for example, the situation. The professional doctors who know something about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113028	Yes, well, our desire is, of course, to get the best possible evidence and evidence collection. I think we all agree on that. When I said in my first answer that it is a little atypical, it is because, under normal circumstances, it is the industry itself, in other words the companies themselves, who finance, establish and document why there is evidence in relation to a given medicine, a vaccine, a pain-solving medicine or whatever it is you want on the market. Then you get approval and there are clear procedures for it, and then it is that it can enter the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113104	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113116	Thank you for that and I would also like to thank you for the Minister's speech. Einstein once said that crazy is doing the same thing over and over and expecting another result. And with all due respect, sir. Minister, is that not what the government is about to do here, that is to say just to do the same thing over and over again, namely to extend an experimental scheme that we have once seen does not work, and now we are giving it four more years? I'm just asking. And what I really want to ask the Minister is that I have heard several rapporteurs here mention, among other things. The National Medicines Agency, and as I said myself, they have been foot-to- foot-to- foot-to-foot. Today we have on the market four foreign products and after 4 years: not a single Danish. In Germany, German patients at the pharmacy can buy Danish-produced medical cannabis. In Germany it takes 6-8 weeks to get a product approved. What is it they can do in Germany that the Danish Medicines Agency cannot do? What I want to ask the Minister is whether the Minister will ensure that the Danish Medicines Agency has instructions for product authorisation, that cultivation guidelines are made, and that missing letters and instructions from the Danish Medicines Agency are made to the manufacturers so that they know where the error is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113246	Yes, thank you for that and also thank you for that introduction. It is true that, in substance, it is essentially a continuation of the regime which was introduced under the previous government and which we have then chosen by a broad majority to continue with some adjustments, among other things. It is not my impression that this is an expression of what the rapporteur is saying here. On the contrary, I think that this is a good agreement that we have made, and I fully support it. Then we are asked about the work of the Danish Medicines Agency, and their work we have to ensure that they can take care of in a way that they can vouch for it being patient-proof and that safety is controlled. That is their primary task, and they have to stand guard over it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113351	Well, no one is questioning that the Danish Medicines Agency should be able to vouch for things. I just ask in peace whether the Minister will ensure that instructions are made for product authorisations and that deficiency letters are written when a company applies for product authorisations, that is when something is missing, that the Danish Medicines Agency also sends a letter of deficiency and says: What is missing? What does it take for your application to be better qualified and for your product to be approved? I am simply asking for a real and more equal dialogue. And then let me ask you about the treatment guidelines, which several of my colleagues here have also mentioned, in relation to the fact that doctors can feel more comfortable by printing medical cannabis. Is this something that the Minister will then take the lead in ensuring that there is a treatment guide so that doctors can feel comfortable printing medical cannabis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113446	However, when it comes to treatment guidelines, this is something that we normally get from medical companies. And the situation is, of course, that we do not have a medical company that has wanted to produce a treatment guide, and that is why the Danish Medicines Agency had to take on the task of providing guidance to doctors on the treatment of patients with medical cannabis. This is not the best situation, I do not think it is, but the medical companies are entitled to it and have autonomy in relation to what they are going to do and recommend.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113521	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113531	I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister thinks is most important: is it that we have companies in Denmark that export or that we have some patients who can have more products to choose from, for example. Danish products?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113548	It is true that the proposal is of course about both, that is to say both about producing and that as a patient you can have the opportunity to use medical cannabis if the doctor prescribes it. There are a number of examples of patient groups where it is really assessed to alleviate, and we also have lots of reports about many patients who make use of it here; and everything we do in health care is about people and about giving people better health. Sometimes it can be done as pain relief for people who have serious illness, and therefore I also consider such an issue here to be philosophically interesting. However, when I am a great supporter of the fact that we have a strong life science and pharmaceutical industry in Denmark, it is of course because it provides jobs and money in our treasury, but it is primarily because it provides good products for our patients, so that they will have better treatment and better pain relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113649	It's just because it sounds like the Conservatives: We want to grow it and sell it, but no, no, not in Denmark. When does the Minister expect Danish products to be on the shelf?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113659	I simply do not have the courage to answer that question myself. For it is of course the Danish Medicines Agency which, in close cooperation in a process where there must be close cooperation, also provides guidance on what is missing from information in order to obtain the product authorisation. This is done in close cooperation with the manufacturers, but it is ultimately the Danish Medicines Agency that has to give the green light and we have to accept that. We can easily be impatient, but it is very, very crucial that professionalism remains intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113732	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113737	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I think that the Minister addressed several of the complexities and challenges of an arrangement such as that adopted here a few years ago. The Minister mentioned that 10 million were set aside. kr. to 5 projects here a few years ago, of which three have been reported. Now I cannot quote the Minister verbatim, but the Minister said something similar to the fact that the three who had reported had not made us wiser. I would say that a negative result also makes us wiser, because then we realized that this was obviously not how we should use medical cannabis. So is it not true that a study does not have to produce a positive result until it is useful knowledge in an experimental scheme such as the one we are discussing here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113822	That is, of course, absolutely correct. However, I would like to say that it is not the case that, in the few seconds I have at my disposal here on the platform, I can account for the entire complexity of the individual research projects that one has then said that this should not be done and that it is harmful or that it is inactive. It is in the search for evidence where the experiment has not been shown to give a clear indication on it, but also not the opposite, i.e. that there is no evidence as a rule at least. It is true that one can at least say that when the Folketing dropped these funds, it was with a clear expectation that we would have clear evidence with two lines below. We have not had that yet, at least, in relation to the three projects that have been reported.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113915	Thank you. It is a well-known fact that you cannot know in advance what the result will be, because if you could, there was really no reason to do research. It is also well known that hundreds of research reports of varying quality, of course, can be quickly found with different types of studies of medical cannabis not all conducted in Denmark, but around the world. And I guess that's the whole pool of evidence you have to look at. Surely there is no reason to assume that a study done in Denmark is better than a study done in the United States or in Germany? So you have to take a broad look at the evidence of medical cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015113949	That's right. So, there is no requirement that the studies of the medicines we have available in Denmark, whatever it is, should have been carried out in Denmark. One specific example we have is the corona vaccine. No studies have been carried out on it in Denmark, but studies have been carried out elsewhere where they have then been used to obtain evidence and thus approval. So it is quite true that if something turns out to be there no matter where you do such a study here that is good and that is fertile, in one or the other weight bowl, then it is something that also Danish authorities read and use completely, as others use it, in their assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114029	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114032	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I think there are three major problems for patients compared to cannabis. One is that the doctors, among other things. due to lack of guidance is likely not to print it. The second is that there are too few products compared to all the things that cannabis can actually help compared to how many people then find help on the black market. The third reason for this is inequality. Does the Minister not think that there is a major problem in terms of equality in health when prices are so high?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114109	Yes, there is. In relation to the description of the market here, there are also other rapporteurs who have described it, namely how products have been taken off the market. There have been delivery challenges for various reasons in the global market, and it is always bad for patients who use a particular product, and especially here, if you look at a failure to deliver on the illegal market. There may be many, many reasons for this, but of course I am now focusing on pure health, and it can be extremely difficult to know what you are buying there and what you are getting there. So for many reasons it is deeply problematic. That is one of the reasons why the government also supports this and has taken the initiative by calling for negotiations, making agreements and legislation to extend this arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114204	Thank you. I have examples that there are people who, when they get it on prescription, have to pay $6,000. the month of treatment. Does the Minister think that it is a reasonable amount to have to be found in one's budget? The people who need cannabis are not all those who also have a high income.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114229	It is a very, very high price, and I would very much like to return to how the subsidy scheme is put together in committee. There is, of course, this arrangement that, if you are a terminal patient, you generally get 100 per cent. in support, and otherwise you get 50 per cent. in support. But if there are specific questions in relation to patient examples, let us try to delve into it in committee work. Then I would very much like to help deliver answers to that, because there are also a few other arrangements regarding the purchase of medicines that may have an impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114301	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that we pass the bill on to the Health Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114338	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114348	After all, the legislative proposal here is primarily legislative amendments designed to adapt the Danish veterinary legislation to the EU regulation on veterinary medicinal products, the so-called veterinary regulation. As the draft law points out, a large part of the changes are about maintaining the current legal position when the new regulation comes into force in January. I do not want to stand here and make a long speech, but simply state that, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party can fully support the way in which the government is proposing to implement the veterinary regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114425	Thank you. Rasmus Horn Langhoff You're welcome). The next person to speak is Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114435	Thank you. Although I was born and raised on a farm, I am still professionally a little outside of my comfort zone here, but nevertheless thank you for the floor. It is about organising, as the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, Danish legislation for the new EU regulation for the regulation of veterinary medicinal products. The proposal will result in an adaptation in key areas such as marketing authorisation, pharmacovigilance, advertising and requirements for the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products. And I can already tell you now that we in the Left intend to support the proposal. We welcome the fact that the regulation creates a burden relief for special companies and institutions as a result of the abolition of notification obligations and registration arrangements for certain substances used in animal medicines. In addition, we also welcome the fact that it will be easier to buy and import over-the-counter medicines within the European Union. We also welcome the fact that the draft law has no economic or implementation implications for the public or private sector and thus does not add additional burdens to anyone. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114547	Thank you. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114555	Thank you. The proposal concerns veterinary medicinal products and an adjustment of the scheme for SAB medicinal products. And, of course, I understand what that is, because it is medicinal products that the hospital pharmacists manufacture for the individual patient or small patient groups that have special needs and that the products of the industry cannot meet. With this bill, some rules are being dismantled which are now being replaced by the new veterinary regulation. I can see that some of the questions that are being asked are whether you can still go away in other EU countries and buy some things that have been marketed in those countries, but not in Denmark, and to that the Ministry has replied that you can. So it looks good that what has been asked about in the hearings has been answered and that it is permissible. When we have this proposal, I will not fail to mention that we still want Braille - I do not really know if I am saying it correctly, but I can also say: script, Braille on animal medicines. It is the European Union that decides it, and I would have liked to have written it into this. I asked in the ministry if this was something you could have put into the bill, so that blind people too can feel what medicine they want to give their guide dog, perhaps, or other animals they may have. It is up to the European Union not to do so. It's only medicine for people who have blindprints on the packs. The whole Nordic Council supports this and we are trying to get it up into the European Union, so I hope it will come at some point. But the Minister may take it to his colleagues, but we say yes to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114741	Thank you. And welcome to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114752	Thank you for the floor. I am here instead of the SF's health rapporteur, and I can be very brief. This is an adaptation to the EU regulation and we can endorse the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114759	Thank you. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114809	Thank you. We have all looked forward to this debate and I have prepared a long speech from the rapporteur. No, as several speakers have said, this is an adaptation to a veterinary regulation which, of course, we in the Radical Left support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114825	Thank you. We can thus welcome Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114836	Thank you for that, President. I can make it as exemplary a card as my colleagues. The Enhedslisten can only agree with this proposal, and I would also like to agree with the excellent comments made by Mrs Liselott Blixt that we must, of course, have the opportunity to inform blind and partially sighted people about the contents of the package of medicines. So I think this is an excellent opportunity to try to bring the issue up, and we will certainly support that in relation to the committee procedure, so this could be an opportunity to raise it at ministerial level as well. Because, as Mrs Liselott Blixt says, this is a specific issue, and this is something that has been brought to the attention of the Nordic Council, which is why this is a good opportunity to raise this debate and also so that we can draw our European colleagues' attention to the fact that we have a problem here that we need to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114927	You're welcome. And there was someone who wanted to make a brief comment to Mr. Mr. Peder Hvelplund, I would like to give the floor to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114942	I'll be very brief. Now I forgot in my own speech, but this is a good opportunity to agree with the rapporteur's remark to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that we also support, of course, the fact that we are putting the blanket on drugs for animals as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015114954	Yes, you do not have to comment on everything (Mr. Peder Hvelplund no, that's good, so I'm not going to do it). Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. It was a connection to a connection. I would like to welcome Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115011	Yeah, thanks for that. I must also refrain from stalling the matter, but just note that we are in agreement with the new regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115021	You're welcome. And welcome to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115027	Thank you. Well, I think it is appropriate to review the directive that underlies it, so that the Folketing can keep up with the 'no', New Citizens can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115035	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor, nor do I see any more rapporteurs. That is why I give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115052	Yes, thank you very much. Thank you for your comments. The current EU rules on veterinary medicinal products will be replaced on 28 January next year by a new EU regulation on veterinary medicinal products, and the purpose of this bill is to adapt Danish legislation to this new regulation, which amends the law on medicinal products, to the law on pharmacy and to the health law, to our great law, and to the draft law to bring about rules that are now being replaced by the new veterinary regulation. In addition, adjustments are made in a number of wordings, because for legal reasons it is necessary to maintain the current Danish rules. There are two areas that I would like to highlight now, where there is a need to change national rules, because otherwise they would be in breach of the regulation. There is as little change as possible in order to maintain as much of the current requirements and opportunities as possible. One change concerns online negotiations. After all, pharmacies can continue to negotiate prescription medicines in Denmark, but not beyond their borders, because this is no longer permitted by the regulation. The second amendment abolishes the current registration system for substances which may be used as veterinary medicinal products for animals. Instead, a rule is introduced that the substances may only be purchased by a wholesaler. In addition, the bill moves the authority to issue four notices from the Minister for Health to the Danish Medicines Agency, and in all four cases these are purely technical notices. As I have said, it will enter into force on 28 January 2022, and the bill here is, therefore, in relation to the fact that we in Denmark are preparing for it. And I hope that the legislative proposal will be well dealt with in committee and I look forward to answering any questions that the committee may have on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115246	This does not seem to be necessary in this case, so we thank the Minister for Health. And then I would say that after nine minutes of effective procedure, no more people have asked to speak. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115412	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115421	Thank you for that, President. I would say that the effectiveness of the Minister for Health and of the health rapporteurs was just a bit surprised by you, so I am just trying to breathe. As the President has already said, it is three legislative proposals that are being co-examined, and they have a kind of similar subject because it is a matter of auditing provisions. In relation to L 36 on the postponement of the revision clause, it can be said that what we are discussing here, in other words the substance, is the mandatory language tests and the agreement we made on it and strengthened parental responsibility. There should be an evaluation of this legislation, but because of the covid-19 situation, the evaluation has been delayed. That is why we are simply proposing that we wait until we have had an evaluation to discuss the review. I think that is relatively quiet. In relation to the lifting of the review clause in L 37 on upper secondary education, it is important to say that, although we propose to repeal the revision clause, we will still follow the area and evaluate and discuss what is happening in this area. So it is by no means a question of the fact that we cannot return to legislation later on. In L 38, which is about the repeal of the revision clause in relation to the municipal international primary schools, we are actually simply proposing that we continue the option that exists today and that we look at the law again in a few years' time, but that there should be no revision provisions. It is, after all, a little from a point of view that is about saying that we must automatically go to the Assembly to change things. In other words, we must always decide in Parliament to change things if there is any reason to change them, and Members and, by the way, a parliamentary majority can always decide, but from our point of view it is not appropriate for us to say in advance, when we make a law, that we now have to change it again, because then we risk making changes to the law, because we have agreed it and not because it would actually improve the law. I have promised to greet on behalf of the Radical Left and say that they also support the three legislative proposals here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115646	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115654	Thank you so much. It was really just such a low-practical issue that there is a postponement of the revision clause in one legislative proposal, i.e. L 36, and in the other two, i.e. 37 and L 38, there is the repeal of the revision clause. Can the rapporteur explain what the argument is for abolishing it in some places and postponing it elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115719	After all, I gave the argument why we are actually in favour of abolishing the automaticity of this in the last two legislative proposals. In relation to the first, we can discuss it easily, but it is actually out of respect for the fact that it was two different areas of agreement and a number of legislation that we did not propose to remove it, but if there is a wish, we can discuss it easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115746	No, maybe it was the opposite. I mean, I always think it makes sense to sit down and discuss the legislation that exists, assess it again, evaluate it and so on. That is why I think it is actually very sensible to postpone the revision clause, but that we are still making sure that we return to it and do it better. The rapporteur does say this, however, about the fact that we will have to do this, for example in the conciliation circle and so on, in relation to one of the legislative proposals; it is a little difficult to talk about three legislative proposals at once. But it was actually just to say: there is one thing that postpones the revision clause, and I think it makes sense to postpone it, because it is not possible to evaluate on what is not an evaluation. But in the other two, you just cancel it and say: well, then we have to take it a little ad hoc. That's what I was wondering a little bit about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115835	Well, I don't think it's ad hoc. In other words, I still believe that we need to discuss, evaluate and follow it. What I find weird is that we in this Parliament are making a law that at some point we have to change the law we have made, whether or not there is actually a reason to change it, i.e. whether there is something that does not work. After all, we are discussing a lot in here, whether we are making too much legislation, whether the mill grinds too much, and whether we have to spit the stones out of here all the time in order to act decisively. In this context, it may seem a little strange that you per. Automatically says: Now we have to change something in a law, regardless of whether there is actually a problem. However, if there is a problem, it is always the possibility for a majority in Parliament, and indeed Members of Parliament, to make proposals to change something. That right lies, as it is, in our parliamentary system, and it should not be tampered with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115930	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115933	Thank you very much. I would like to ask about L 38, which deals with municipal international schools, which have not been the greatest successes. One has just opened up at Lolland, which turns out that you cannot fill up with students, and therefore you bring in Danish children who will then be taught in foreign languages. Is that the point of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015115958	In other words, it can be said that the purpose of the law has been to give an opportunity in the municipalities to do something if they thought it was appropriate and necessary in their municipality. It may also be in some places where there are many visitors who work at some of our companies • international workers or other. And how you like to use it in the municipalities is up to the municipalities; but it is clear that the first time we evaluated this, where no one really had used it, they said: OK, we're giving it a second chance. Now, in fact, some municipalities have made a school and more are on their way. And no, that's not a lot, you know. On the other hand, it also seems strange to have to prevent municipalities from doing so if they actually think it makes sense locally. And there may be the fact that Mrs Liselott Blixt, who has been elected in Zealand, has a better understanding of what is the situation on Lolland. But I will not judge whether it is appropriate to go one way or the other in that municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120059	It is true that I grew up in Lolland, which is why I wonder why we are actually doing these things and exacerbating the situation in some municipalities where village schools close. Then you create an international school, which may do, because it is too far to other schools, or because there are other problems, or the municipality now needs to fill up the school, that you can then teach some of those who come to work with the Fehmarnlink. These Danish children, who are born and raised here and who should learn the Danish language as one of the first ones, must now learn another language first.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120134	I think that you also learn language before you go to school. In fact, I do not quite know what the rapporteur means, but if the rapporteur thinks that we should take action against local self-government in this area, then it is the opposite that lies in this. We have also given it the opportunity a few years ago, and there are some municipalities that are taking advantage of it. That's not a lot. You may well disagree with what is being done on Lolland, and you can easily discuss with the municipal council, but we respect that they have done so, because that is the possibility that they have been given with the legislation. And I'm not suggesting going away because you disagree with what's happening on Lolland. It is the case, of course, with a great deal of local self-determination that one can disagree with the way in which the municipalities use it, but not with the intention of abolishing or restricting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120225	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. That is why I would like to welcome Mr. Stén Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120243	Thank you for the floor. Corona has, of course, had an enormous impact on the whole of humanity and, as such, also on people and businesses at home and also on political activity. It could be called the late followers of the Corona with the many legislations and evaluations and audits that we have to go through. We are cooperating with L 36, L 37 and L 38 today, whose collective transferor for those areas is evaluation, audit, postponement or termination. In relation to L 36, we are in favour of postponing the review, which is contained in the revision clause in the proposal here. Compared with L 37, which is, after all, a revision of the secondary law that we adopted a few years ago, we are probably not in favour of repealing, but perhaps more to postpone, and this is also a little linked to the previous debate between the Social Democrat rapporteur and the New Citizens' rapporteur in this area. We really want to have a talk about whether we should not just postpone rather than repeal. And we also think that this whole thing about some of it, that there's a side to it, that we're gonna meet. Then it may well be that we quickly agree that everything is as it should be and that we can continue to work on the law that is now, but we would also like it not to be repealed, but that we might put off the dialogue that we can then have in committee on the way to first, second and third reading. In relation to L 38, we are also in favour of not abolishing it, but of postponing it. As the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, there are in fact several schools on the way and several municipalities on the way, which is why we could have an interest in further discussing whether we should land on a 3-year agreement, which states that we will then evaluate in three years' time. Let us look into the law, that is to say we must continue to review it precisely in order to have a conversation about whether everything is as it should be. Then you can work on the law that lies. And if there is something in the evaluation in three years' time that will make us correct, then we will have it done. In general, however, the three recommendations that lie here can be followed. We just want to be allowed to discuss further, in relation to not abolishing, but postponing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120528	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why I would like to welcome Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120545	In the Danish People's Party we vote for the revision clause in L 36 and for the abolition of the same in L 37. On the other hand, we are voting against L 38 on the revision clause, which deals with municipal international schools. In the past, a revision of L 38 had been postponed because no municipalities had set up an international elementary school, as the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party said. But then one was created in the municipality of Lolland, and in addition there have been a few municipalities which are considering setting up one. In our view, this is too thin a basis for bringing the law into force and repealing the revision clause, especially because municipal international primary schools are not necessary. The Danish People's Party supports the private, and free schools can easily create international schools. This is very good, but we see no reason for the municipalities to get involved in it. The review also shows that municipal international schools do not have an adequate international basis for pupils, so the schools must then be filled by Danish pupils who then have to be taught in a foreign language instead of in Danish. We think that this is a slippery slope, and that is why we are still voting against municipal international primary schools. But I know we're going to ask some questions along the way, especially in relation to this school on Lolland-Falster. I should like to ask what kind of schools are located in the surrounding area. Who's gonna be missing students? Are we going to shut down some of the village schools? It's a very sensitive place to start experimenting. We have plenty of problems on Lolland-Falster. So it's just to say, I think you play with the fire. So that is certainly something we would like to ask about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120746	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Welcome to Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120758	Thank you. Unfortunately, the rapporteur for the draft law was not able to be here today, so I would like to explain the SF's position instead. We support both L 36, L 37 and L 38. We believe that this is the wrong way to go. And we are also opposed to language tests as stop tests for kindergarten children. But the discussion of the content of the law will take place after the evaluation has been completed. Compared with L 37, we have noted that Danish vocational schools and colleges believe that there should be only a postponement and not a repeal because they are concerned that a lack of commitment in the law may mean that the law will not be revised. But, of course, we in the SF want to keep the minister up to that. With regard to L 38, we note that the Ministry will review the content of the law again within a short period of time in order to ensure that the law provides the municipalities with the right framework for setting up and running municipal international schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120905	You're welcome. We move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015120913	As has been shown in the speeches made by the previous rapporteurs, we are considering proposals to postpone or repeal revision provisions in three different legislations. We have different approaches to the various legislative proposals. Firstly, on legislation on compulsory language tests in vulnerable residential areas and on the possibility of stopping the children's check, we do not support the postponement of the evaluation. We recognise that the conditions under the corona have not been the best for evaluating it. It could be said that the conditions under the corona might not have been the best conditions for maintaining a clause on language tests and child checks. When we dealt with it a few years ago, we were fervently opposed to the introduction of this legislation. We think it's totally wrong with these language tests, and that you have a threat hanging over your head to get the children's check off. We simply disagree so fundamentally with this proposal that we thought it was right that it was very quickly re-examined in the Folketing. With regard to the reform of high school, I would like to say that we would like to see a number of elements in the reform of high school changed. There's no need to list them. I recognise that there has been a delay in the evaluation and that is why we were able to support the proposal in question. I heard comments about the fact that other parties thought it sensible to postpone it, and I really do not know what the difference is, because it is very clear from the legal notes that the government is planning that the evaluation should be completed so that we can discuss them in 2022. So I have a relaxed relationship with it. I am happy to vote in favour of the government's proposal if the government and other parties find it more peaceful to write that we postpone the evaluation for my sake. The most important thing is that we will discuss it in 2022. As far as the revision clause on the municipal international primary schools is concerned, I would say perhaps the same. In other words, we voted for 6-7 years ago. Time does not go for the proposal. We voted to postpone the evaluation when we dealt with it a year ago, I think. There were no communal international primary schools at all. That's why it could seem heavy to evaluate it. Now there's one. Again, in relation to the comments made in the draft law, in which the government writes that it is expected that in three to five years' time it will be natural to take the matter up again, I think that is actually very sensible. But once again, I would just as peacefully say: if there could be a broad consensus that the evaluation and the audit were simply to be postponed, we would have nothing against it either. In any case, it is quite obvious that it does not make much sense to evaluate on the basis of the experience of a single school. So the first thing we cannot support, even though we recognise the problems of evaluation. The other two can be supported, including in the perhaps slightly modified form, such as: The rapporteur of the Left has pointed out this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015121254	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015121301	Thank you. This is an effective co-operation, and we are also in the Conservative People's Party, because we have two people in one, because I am also here for Mai Mercado, who is our rapporteur for the primary school. We support both L 36, L 37 and L 38, but we would, of course, like to recommend that a proper evaluation be carried out, both on the mandatory language tests of L 36, but also on the L 37, so that a proper evaluation is also carried out there and that negotiations are called for once that evaluation is available. Of course, it is important that we have a proper basis on which to make decisions. The government has also said that it will try to limit the number of legislative proposals so that the legislative programme will not be too large, even if we had 34 legislative proposals this week. So we believe that we should make an assessment when the evaluation is available and that this should be done in good time. So we back up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015121411	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015121427	Thank you. We are now working together on three legislative proposals, a draft law which postpones the revision clause and two legislative proposals which repeal a revision clause. I really think it is a very good and healthy principle that, when we adopt legislation in here, we also promise each other that we will have to return to it and see whether changes need to be made or whether this is still necessary at all. I can therefore also hear that there are several rapporteurs who have mentioned this in that we have to look at whether we cannot do it in committee, so that it is at least a postponement of the revision clause and not just a repeal of some of the others. Then I am also curious to follow L 38 a little closely in committee because we can see that there may not be a great need for this particular legislation. However, I look forward to the committee reading for all three legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015121528	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one on the platform is the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015121534	In fact, I fully agree with what was just being said by the New Citizens' Party. I believe that it is a healthy principle that we follow up legislation, that we commit each other to it and that we also evaluate it. But I really think this thing about automatically revising the law is crazy. I think we should separate the debate. Because there is something that has really occurred to me now that I have been sitting in here for a lot of years in opposition and for some years, when it has been my side that has had the power of government and what has just occurred to me when we started to have to look at these verdicts, is why are we really doing this? Typically, a legislative review comes in because at the end of a negotiation process, one would like the government to be obliged to follow up on things. I myself have helped to negotiate this through very, very many times, and I think that is sensible. But why a revision of the law? Well, if there's a need to change the law, you can just change it. That's kind of what we do in the Folketing. What is needed, of course, is a commitment from a government to evaluate, to make a status, to make a statement, to make a substantive statement, while what lies in a legislative review is that we have to come up with some amended paragraphs. I think it is quite strange. When I was looking at this and we had to decide what to do with the revision provisions, I asked the question: why do we have them at all? In most of the negotiations that I have participated in, it has been what has been the spirit of what has been asked typically by the opposition, i.e. that the government undertakes either to come to the Assembly Chamber or to make substantive statements or to make evaluations. That is what has been wanted. And then it's been a little hips about happenings whether what you've been committed to is an evaluation or a review. I actually believe that we basically mean the same thing, namely that the commitment is the important, not legislative review. If you do an evaluation in a legal area and there's something that doesn't work, big or small, we'll just make a change of law. What is essential is to find a way of obliging the government to find out that something is not working, so you have a basis for making a change of law if needed. The automation of jumping to the conclusion immediately, namely that there is a need for a change of law, is, on the other hand, a crying madness. And that is what means that we are standing down here now and not discussing the substance and content. A lot of you've wanted to do that. Is it a good idea or a bad idea with international schools, is it a good idea or a bad idea with language tests? That's what's really interesting. Instead, we are discussing whether a paragraph should be amended or not, because it says in the law that we should discuss whether there is a paragraph that needs to be amended. In my opinion, it's a dead end. That is why I will always make myself available for an obligation as a government to follow up legislation and do it substantially properly, and I am, of course, obliged to stand before the Folketing. But automatic revision of the law? It seems to me crazy. I can at least say that in all the late hours of the night I have been sitting and negotiating, and where it has been the last thing that was needed to get things straight, it might as well have been an evaluation, because that was what was meant by it, and an obligation to follow up on certain things that have been worried about. So it's just to say that I'm going to put some effort into trying to convince you that you can do this smarter thing for all of us - in a way that those who are in opposition actually get more in hand and get more out of it, and where we get rid of that automatic, where we are now discussing lawyers down here instead of discussing content and what came out of content. But we will come back to that in the course of the committee work and the subsequent readings of it. But it is just to explain why we have taken this initiative. And when it is that I have proposed that, as far as one of the proposals is concerned, we simply postpone instead of abolishing it, it was in fact in respect of the fact that the bill was split up because there were two different areas of agreement. That is to say, it was not quite simple what was the reason for doing so. So there was a slightly different character to that of a late-night debate where legal review was written instead of just writing evaluation and follow-up and exposition or some other thing. That is why, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, we are actually open to abolishing it all around, but since the other thing was, as it were, the reason why we have taken these things in the Chamber in this way, there is a postponement on that point because it had a different background than there, where you can just say that it has been an automatism at the end of a negotiation process. So that's why we put it this way. And I think I'm going to make it customary. So now these are the three we're facing the next times I'm encountering something where an automated audit has been put in, that is to say, to make the same kind of proposal. So it's not gonna be the last time we're gonna be left with it. Resort areas are very different in terms of legislation, which means that it can be different from one area to another what is meaningful. At any rate, I can only say that, in the field of education, I have been sitting on it for quite incredible many years now. I have not experienced at any time, either when I have been in opposition or when I have been in government, that there has been a need for us to have an automated revision of the legislation. I can be wrong, and there may be others who have other experiences. But that is certainly why we have tabled these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122041	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Stén Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122044	Thank you. So the fact that it's work for the DJs can make most of us say, "Well, then we shouldn't do it." But I would really like to hear the Minister speak on behalf of the whole government, and I understand that it is the Minister's line in the future... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Now it came back. That is the new line that the Minister will take in relation to what is coming. And then just like this: is this something the government is discussing, or is it just the minister who is thinking that it is really fine right in my area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122126	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122128	Now it is the case that you cannot actually put forward legislative proposals down here without it being over the whole government, so this is a common guideline in my area. And when I myself said in my speech that it can be different from one area to another, it is because I have been rapporteur on energy and climate, on social affairs, on research and equality, on taxation and finance and on professions and, I think, on a little more. But it's just to say that I've been pretty wide around the Folketing. At any rate, what I have seen is that it is extremely different from one area to another, both what is customary and how the various parliamentary tools are used. That is why I also know from experience that it is not necessarily possible to transfer it from one area to another, i.e. that what works very well here is not necessarily the same thing that would work very well on business law, on tax law or on anything else. Because there may be quite different customs about parliamentary practice. In other words, what is here is what is going to be the line for the government in the field of children's and education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122228	Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122230	I understand the argument, and I can hear it as well. I am just thinking that the structure around which we build the legislative work, that is to say that we make an agreement that we get evaluated and that per year. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122259	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122301	No, and it's not even in this area. In other words, whether or not there are provisions for auditing is different, depending on the political agreement on which it is based. In other words, some political agreements have decided that there are annual statements. In some political agreements, for example. In the area of primary education, it has been decided that there is a major follow-up research programme and an obligation on the Minister to appear in the Parliamentary Assembly once a year. In this way, each agreement has an independent set. One might say that what is customary is that there is some sort of obligation to follow up. But what kind of commitment is it? whether it is progress reports, conciliation circles, or what it is very, very different from area to area and also from agreement to agreement in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122346	We thank the Minister for Children and Education. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122407	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122415	Thank you for that, President. This is somehow very technical, and it is also quite important, because this is about the funding of our education in a lot of contexts. It's about our activity-dependent veu contribution; it's about internships, about the AUB; it's about the flexible AUB contribution. And all of this is the way we finance, for example, the apprenticeships. So regardless of the fact that you can spend a long time on model parameters, that you can turn up and down, and that some of the amounts are falling and some are rising next year, the story is that this is the way we ensure that there is actually money to take, for example, the apprentices that we need. The story of the flexible AUB contribution, which is the biggest change in it, and probably what will be the subject of the most discussion, was that you had an imbalance in that system. The National Audit Office and a political majority also agreed on this in the tripartite agreement. You had to do something so you didn't charge more than you needed, so you made sure that it matched the move that was in the account. An agreement was reached on this in 2020, and it actually happened that now, in addition to an agreement on how to reduce the surplus that had been worked up, we have ended up with a deficit. And that bill, of course, must also be picked up. It is important, I think, to say that the reason why there is a deficit in that box is, in fact, that we as a community, as a society, succeeded in ensuring that, despite corona, more people actually gained an apprenticeship by the end of 2020 than there was in 2019. We told each other that it should not be the young people who lack apprenticeships who should pay the cost of the corona crisis. The social partners were also involved in this, and this was in fact the reason why a very advantageous system was introduced, which said that it is almost possible to obtain free apprentices during this period. We did this to make sure that they did not get out of the system and to ensure that apprenticeships were created enough. That is why one can say: yes, there is an extra bill, but it is also justified by the fact that in 2020 and during the corona, employers actually had the opportunity to create apprenticeships with a very, very large grant, so that they also got a lot back from the scheme. Because it is a major increase, questions have been raised as to whether one could distribute the payment, one might say, in relation to balancing it again. After all, it is a good thing that the social partners tend to sit down at the negotiating table and make a solution, a tripartite agreement when a problem arises. And here today I assume that most rapporteurs have also seen it an hour or one and a half ago, or something like that, a statement came out that there is actually an agreement now to distribute the bill over three years, and also a number of other things that are about how we ensure improvements to the education system. So we support the bill here. Of course, we also support it with the new, forthcoming tripartite agreement, which has just landed, and we are pleased that a solution has actually been found together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122742	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015122749	Thank you. It is true what the previous rapporteur said: we are dealing with a proposal for a law amending the law on employers' training contributions. The draft law provides for a number of adjustments to rates in the eud field and adult, continuing training. However, I would like to focus here in my rapporteur's speech on the Minister's proposal to increase the AUB contribution from the DKK 2.354. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is done on the basis of negative equity in employers' training contributions of 2.6 billion. kr. at the end of 2020. With the bill, at least as it has been up to now, it is proposed to put the entire extra bill in 2022; a year in which employers and companies are still experiencing the aftermath of the covid-19. The increase in the AUB contribution corresponds to an increase of no less than 54 per cent. This is unfortunate, and it is particularly unfortunate at a time when companies are still feeling the consequences of covid-19. Perhaps you're thinking: Well, hasn't business moved forward after covid-19? Here I have to say: the answer is no; lost revenue and earnings must therefore be recovered over the coming years; loans must be repaid; freight and raw materials prices are steadily increasing; right now there are long delivery times on raw materials and on finished goods. Add to this that a number of industries could, for example, be the hotel and catering industry. I would like to make it clear today that we in the Left recognise that the deficit in the AUB must be covered by employers through a higher AUB contribution for a period of time, but we cannot support the fact that the money is collected at once, and we are actually quite incomprehensible that the Minister has not wanted to respond to the many almost identical consultation answers that have been given, which say: that is inappropriate; that does not make sense; and we would strongly warn against winding up the debt in a short time. These are just some of the statements in the hearings. It was the case that, at the first reading of L 34 in this Chamber last night, a bit of a disagreement arose between the Minister and the rapporteur of the Conservatives on the deficit of this 2.6 billion. kr. I would like today to endorse the Conservative rapporteur's criticism of last night. In this context, allow me to quote one of the parties to the tripartite agreement: •DA will also emphasise that the deficit has not arisen because the activity by 2020 was higher than budgeted. On the other hand, the deficit has arisen because the Ministry of Children and Education made a miscalculation of approx. 2 billion kr., when they had to assess the financial consequences of the tripartite agreement on the apprentices of May 2020. That is why it is even more incomprehensible to the Left that the Minister has so far refused to respond to the criticisms and calls of the hearings. For just as the stakeholders in the consultation answer do, the Left calls for the burden to be shared over a number of years. I understand that an hour ago a new tripartite agreement has been published which guarantees a repayment period of three years now. Subject to the fact that I have not yet been able to dive into the text of the agreement there, I would like to say here that the Left supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123144	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123147	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and thank you for the recognition of what the situation is out there, and of course the rapporteur should not be called to account for the details of it. But I can say that, once we have seen the new Tripartite Party, there will also be an amendment which meets it and which, among other things, will be adopted. It's about distributing the bill over a few years. That is why I would just like the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that we will support what the parties have agreed on, because a solution has been found to this specific problem, but also because the parties have sat down at the table and found a solution to how they could deal with it, so whether the Left will not be prepared to follow the third party and the new agreement of the parties with amendments in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123240	It was, of course, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that I recognise that it is the labour market that has to rise this bill, and I also recognise the institution around the trialogue negotiations, and we have a tradition of supporting the tripartite agreements that are being concluded. We might well have dreamed that it was shared over 5 years now I understand from the agreement that has just been made that it is over 3 years but again with the reservation that I should have just read the agreement. So, as a starting point, we support it and will also vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123313	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123326	Thank you. The main objective of the Employers' Educational Contribution is to create an incentive for employers to take more apprentices, and this is a goal that we clearly support in the Danish People's Party. Because we need to encourage more people to take up vocational training. That is why we are also pleased with the measures that include: schools and professional committees must take greater responsibility for helping to find apprenticeships which came out of the tripartite agreement and which we dealt with in this Chamber yesterday. However, back to this bill: it is very technical, as I think the Socialist rapporteur also said, that employers have to pay for every apprentice they do not take, in relation to a target ratio, that is to say, every apprentice they do not take, in relation to the number they should take, and there are a lot of model parameters in this system, which is about the inclusion of an assessment of the expected demand and the evolution of the demand for labour with the training in question. At the same time, the draft law establishes an additional contribution rate and a veu contribution for 2022 and finally the Employers' Educational Contribution, AUB. Overall, it is part of the system that the arrangements must be in continuous balance. The contributions will be determined on the basis of an assessment of the needs of the coming year, and subsequently adjusted in relation to more or less consumption in the individual schemes, which means, of course, that a deficit, as it was in the AUB scheme in 2020, must be paid by the companies as a starting point. And now this is where I would have called on the government to push the parties to ensure that there is an agreement that these funds could be distributed over a long period of time. Because because of corona and because companies now have to pay taxes and everything else back, they may be in a tight situation. I understand from the Socialist rapporteur that a tripartite agreement has been drawn up, and I would really just like to say that, in the expectation that before we have to deal with this bill in another way, there are some amendments that make this an edible mouthful, even for the employers who have to pay back this money, because so certainly expect the Danish People's Party to be able to support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123529	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123537	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the rapporteur on the draft law did not have the opportunity to be here today, so I will instead explain the SF's position. As you know, employers' training contributions are intended to encourage firms to recruit more apprentices. We need them, and in the SF we are therefore pleased that during the corona crisis, companies created more apprenticeships. It is important that there is a balance in the employers' training contributions and that there are adjustments in the contribution when imbalances arise. Since companies have been good at taking in more apprentices, we are now in a situation of deficit and a new imbalance in the scheme. This is why the flexible contribution of training is now being adjusted in the form of an increase in the contribution. We have noted that employers and business organisations are dissatisfied with the fact that the increase and maintenance of the balance is taking place for a year rather than over a longer period. At the same time, we note that FH because employers have in the past insisted that there should be no imbalances. In the SF, we support the tripartite agreement and note that the parties behind the tripartite party have not been able to reach agreement on another solution with regard to the AUB contribution. So SF backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123645	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123702	Thank you. Like the other parties, we support the Radical Left AUB system and the aim of paying to ensure that we get more people who can gain an apprenticeship. This bill is, of course, of a very technical nature, and it is obviously necessary for us to support a technical legislative proposal which will adjust the underlying model parameters, which will allow the AUB system to roll on, even next year. At the same time, we welcome the fact that an agreement has now been reached on the repayment of the deficit in the system, which, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, is on the welcome basis that there have actually been internships, including during the Corona crisis, for young people in eud education. So we support the bill. And then I do not know if there are any brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123810	We thank the rapporteur because there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015123820	Thank you. We have no particular comments in the Enhedslisten on the part of the proposal which deals with the increase in employers' educational contributions and the reduction of the VEU contribution, we support the regulation agreed by the government with the social partners. As far as the internship-dependent AUB contribution is concerned, we would very much like to see in the Enhedslisten a sharp increase in the additional contribution rate, because we consider that a much greater financial incentive is needed if we are to overcome the lack of internship. We warmly supported it when, in the past, the additional contribution rate was increased, but we do not really believe that we are going to achieve the goal of securing internships for everyone if, at some point, we do not increase the contribution rate quite considerably, but, on the other hand, we are spending the money in such a way that we honour the employers who create more training places. We may sometimes have a desire to take money out of employers' pockets, but here we do not have a separate wish for it, but we have a desire to take them out of the pockets of those who do not make their contribution to lifting the internship problem and, on the other hand, redistribute the money to those who lift their educational responsibilities. I think we're going to discuss together now we're going to see how the numbers are evolving... how we can turn a little harder on the wheels to put pressure on employers to create a sufficient number of places. This is not a point of view that we are going to make in concrete terms in relation to this bill. It is always possible to discuss whether we should leave the legislation to the government in office and the social partners at any time, but it is not a view that we will necessarily always support, but I think it is very sensible in this context that we should regulate, following the agreement reached by the government, also remembering our debate last night on the same subject matter. So we look forward at some point, if there is no drastic change in the number of internships, to discuss how we can then turn on the wheels so that we put stronger pressure on employers. But as it is here, we can also support that part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124103	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124111	Thank you. I would like to ask what the point is, because the tripartite agreements have been adopted, and this is something we have a strong tradition of in Denmark, and the Conservatives always support the principle of tripartite agreements, of course. But I also think it is appropriate sometimes to say no, to say no to the fact that the administration is simply not in order with regard to the way in which the AUB funds are handled. Yes, it was not expected that record agreements were reached by 2020, but, having said that, there must have been some erroneous assumptions. The fact that 3 000 more agreements are being concluded for a year, compared with what was expected, cannot mean that the proposal will suddenly be 2 billion. kr. more expensive and costs 5 billion. kr. instead of 3 billion. kr. There we have to go to a quite different order of magnitude. Then we would also like to ask questions about the wisdom of spending 500 million. kr. in the AUB money for schools and the school side, because we are facing some completely different challenges on the whole eud issue, and that is what we need to look at, it is not just to throw more money, it is not always to strengthen something by just giving money, because what is the effect of it? A miscalculation has been made, and there is a deficit, and we will then have a new debate sent in at the last minute, one hour before, which we cannot have reversed with our group. In fact, I find that rather unsatisfactory. Now this deficit has to be covered three times by large payments instead of one. It is, of course, better, but it must also be said that it is not only the companies that may have had an interest in this, it is probably also the Danish Regions and the National Association of Municipalities, because they have also been quite critical of the proposal to charge all the AUB funds at once. So a 3-year period is of course better than a 1-year period, but I think that many might rather have had a more flexible solution. So now that means you have to pay 850 million. kr. instead, and it is rising from 2,800 to 3,600, and that is still a major increase, as was also said by the Left. So we say no. It is more as a principle and to say that it needs to be dealt with more effectively. First, the companies were charged 1.5 billion. kr. too much, but then we changed that last year in 2020, but then there were 500 million. kr. to the trade unions, and now there is a huge miscalculation of over 2 billion. kr. and 500 million. kr. that comes out again, and it's not this elevator model that we can use to manage so many public funds. There must be more control, and not all companies will benefit from this miscalculation, because there are some who now have to pay a bill. So we say no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124358	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124416	The Socialist rapporteur had so many frowns over the Conservative rapporteur, so I was actually waiting for some brief remarks to be made, but then it did not, and then I had to hurry up here. I agree with everything that was said by the Conservative rapporteur. Nor have we been part of the agreement that was made when the whole scheme was made, and we would probably also have wanted it to look a little different to be quite honest. We can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124448	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next to speak is the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124500	We have not made it through all the historical archives yet, so I cannot say whether this is the first time that Conservatives have not supported a tripartite agreement, but I have certainly not seen it before. After all, this is the way in which we have driven labour market policy in Denmark over many, many years, by the negotiation of tripartite agreements, and at least the four old parties have supported the outcome of the negotiations. So it's definitely a new break. It was said yesterday by the Conservatives that I was quite appalled by it, and I am so much more so today, because there is a new tripartite agreement which responds to the challenges that at least one side had indicated there was in connection with this bill. This brings us to a completely new place politically, when it is the case that one of the old parties, by the way, one who wants the post of Prime Minister, does not recognise the tripartite institution, and I think that is something that all the parties in the Danish Parliament will have to take a position on, because it puts us in a completely new place. At any rate, it is a clear signal to the parties and a distrust of both the employees' side, but also the employers' side, that even if you go in and negotiate a result agreed by the employees' side, the employers' side and the state, Conservative thumbs turn down. It is certainly a completely new standard, and it certainly makes me fear the way to do things in a future if it is the case that Conservatives went and got the PM post at some point. Then it moves on the tectonic plates in politics, if that is not possible. Now I can see that Conservatives are laughing, but I actually think this is deeply serious, and I really think that the last 24 hours are a very good example of why the tripartite institution is so important. We took a decision in the middle of a time of crisis to turn up so that there was a possibility of taking apprentices into a very, very uncertain time during the coronapandemic, and this was done precisely in the tripartite institution. At that time none of us could assess that's what Conservatives call a mistake when we try to estimate how many companies dared take an apprentice in this situation, and thus what the bill will be. Fortunately, many companies dared to take an apprentice, and that is why we are faced with the really positive problem of taking responsibility from companies, from employers, towards a whole generation of young people and ensuring that there were more apprenticeships last year than there have been in the past. I think this has been extremely well done by companies and I believe that there is a whole generation of young people who can thank employers for having taken that responsibility. Then you face the challenge that we so misjudged, that is, that we were actually too pessimistic, compared to how many companies dare to take in extra apprentices, and a bill comes out of that because there were more who did it than we expected. And there is the tripartite institution that is extremely flexible, because when you are in this situation, you can do exactly what has happened in this context, namely that you can say from the employer side: this presents us with some challenges, and the thing about having to pay back this one-year bill at a time when there is still uncertainty in many of the companies is not going to work. So can we not open a negotiating table in which we can negotiate with government and with employees to depart from it and have a longer period of time to repay? This is one of the things I love about the Danish system and the Danish model, namely the flexibility that lies in negotiating solutions in place and that things have not been chiseled in granite, and that is why it has fortunately succeeded in establishing a tripartite agreement on the issues raised in the consultations. That is why, of course, I had also had the expectation that at least the old parties, and at least those who expect to sit in government at some point, would support the negotiated results that were, because this is the foundation of the labour market model that we have in Denmark and which I have great hope of can continue. I do not remember how many tripartite agreements the country was in total under the coronate, but that was what carried us through, both companies and employees, namely that it managed to land as many tripartite agreements as it did. And it can be said that if it is not the case that the Folketing will then take responsibility for making them a reality because legislation is needed, the institution will no longer stand, and that is the foundation of what I think the Conservative Parliament is moving by when you choose to vote against the result negotiated home. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124934	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211015124945	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 26 October at 2.30 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
