ParlaMint-DK_20210422100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100010	The item listed as No. Ten on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100021	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. As usual, I would ask you to check that your name is on the voting panel. There are three proposals for adoption. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 111 by Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Thomas Jensen (S), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 76 (S, V, SF, RV, EL and 1 (KF) (by mistake)) voted against 16 (DF, KF, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) abstentions 2 (NB). Proposal for adoption No V 111 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 112 by Jacob Jensen (V) and Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and proposals for adoption no. V 113 of Niels Flemming Hansen (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100142	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100201	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Mona Juul (KF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 16 votes (KF, NB, LA and EL (by mistake)), 56 abstentions (S, DF, SF, RV, Pernille Skipper (EL), Jette Gottlieb (EL) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), 23 abstentions (V). Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of Mona Juul (KF) and can be voted. The vote will end. in favour of 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 61 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. That is why we shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2, put by Mona Juul (KF), lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100258	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100306	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100331	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100347	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 4 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100414	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100426	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100449	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100505	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA and 6 (EL) (by mistake)), against 2 (EL) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100530	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100546	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 4 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100607	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100624	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 86 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, LA and 1 (EL) (by mistake)) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (EL, NB, Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100646	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100700	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions 2 (NB). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100722	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100739	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 87 votes against (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB and LA), 7 abstentions (EL), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) abstained. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100808	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100826	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 10 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100850	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422100909	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 8 (DF and NB), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. I shall now postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 10.25, where we begin first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422102502	The sitting is resumed. Here you go, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422102532	Motion for a resolution B 114 proposes that the government should abolish the requirement for parental payments in respect of placements for children and young people. Firstly, the abolition of parental payments is justified by the fact that the placement is a social task for which parents of children and young people should not therefore pay. Secondly, it is pointed out that, at the same time, many resources are being spent on managing the rules and on collections and that there is a concern that this hampers cooperation between the municipality and parents. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the SF for sharing the government's ambition to improve the placement area and to contribute concrete questions to how you think we do best or how the SF thinks we do best. I do not think that direct charges should be used, so I can preempt a rebuke; I'm sorry, President. When you have a child, hopefully there will be a lot of joys and a lot of lovely moments, but there will also be responsibilities and a number of obligations. As parents, you have the right to set the framework for the child's upbringing and upbringing, and as parents you have the right to determine the overall conditions in your child's life and everyday life. On behalf of your child, you have to decide everything from school to health care. But, of course, there is also a great deal of responsibility and a number of obligations. As parents, care should be taken for your child. You have to help, support and ensure the child's well-being, and you have to support your child. If you fail to carry out the task of caring for your child, then society must and must take action. If you fail to lift that obligation, the authorities must take over so that the child can have the care and security that a child needs. In other words, as parents, you do not have an unconditional right to have your child with you. But that doesn't change the fact that you have an obligation. Although the municipality goes into shorter and longer periods and takes over the task of ensuring the child's well-being during growing up, the biological parents are still parents. And that is why it is here in Denmark also the parents who continue to have custody during a placement. It also follows from the legislation that municipalities must ensure that the relationship between the child and its parents is maintained just during placement, for example. through association, as well as ensuring that parents receive information about the child's everyday life. As long as you are a parent and have custody, you still have some parental obligations, and one of them is the obligation, which, during your placement, will be in the form of self-payment. Therefore, the starting point of the current rules is that all parents with an income above a certain amount are obliged to contribute financially to their children's support. I think that basically is the right starting point. At the same time, however, there are also rules on how high the maximum self-payment must be. I think that is also sensible. Of course, the financial circumstances of the parents must be taken into account, because the self-payment of a child's placement must not mean that the parents do not have the day and the way. And good cooperation between the municipality, the custody holders and the placement site must be given priority, because it benefits the child. Therefore, the existing rules provide for the possibility of derogating from the principle of self-payment, so that account is taken of the fact that the self-payment is not necessarily the right thing in all cases. Municipalities may choose to exempt in whole or in part from their own payment in specific cases. This applies, for example, if the stay has a distinct treatment objective, since the parents do not have to pay for the treatment that a child may need during the placement. It is also possible to opt out, in whole or in part, of self-payment where an exemption has a particular impact on parents' involvement in the provision of support to the child. And if parents have an income below a certain amount, they can also be exempted. This has already taken into account the fact that each case and every family are different and therefore have different conditions for example. the parents' own payments. Of course, the conditions of families must be taken into account... so far we can agree. Such legislation is already in place today, so there is already the possibility of exempting parents from self-payment in the specific cases where it is judged necessary or most appropriate. In addition, I think it is a healthy principle that you as parents have rights, but also some duties, such as that when you have custody of your child, you also help to pay for your child's stay with a foster family or an institution to the extent that you have the opportunity to do so. Against this background, I do not see a need to exempt all parents from self-payment, and the government cannot therefore support motion for a resolution B 114. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103019	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103023	Thank you. Of course, I'm a little sad that the government doesn't support it. In this way, I agree that parents still have a caring task in relation to their children when they are placed. But they actually lose a number of the benefits they have when the children live with them. And if you're supposed to be able to be parents who can also maintain proper association with your children, that you can have toys at home; some clothes for them at home when they're visiting at home; in fact, if you're a parent, then the limit is 2021-money. a year, after which you start charging this parental fee. At the same time, we know that the municipalities administer these rules incredibly differently, from the fact that some municipalities do not charge any parental fees at all to a few municipalities that charge a lot. Can the Minister not see that there is something illogical in the way we have set up that system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103136	Thank you. But the various financial contributions and benefits mentioned by the questioner are, after all, some that you have the right to receive when you have children living at home, and that is what they are related to. And when your child is not resident at home, and it isn't, even if you still have custody when it's placed, you don't have the right to those benefits. So that's the logic in it. It is dealt with very differently, says the rapporteur, and one can say that this is a good starting point, because the starting point is that it must be a concrete and individual assessment, what is best for the child in the specific case, for the cooperation, and you look at the financial situation of the parents. So there has to be a variation. That is also what the legislation does not only allow, but, in a sense, has the expectation that it will be different on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103222	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103224	But it's exactly the variation and the many exceptions that exist in order to make these specific individual assessments that, firstly, create incredibly large municipal differences and, secondly, actually make it very administrative for the municipalities to have this scheme. That was among other things. Therefore, that Aarhus Municipality in its time encouraged us to take up this case because they experience that it is very resource-intensive to make these assessments in the cases. The question is, is it worth it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103258	As far as I'm aware, the last survey we have on this is the Ankestyrelsen's study on parental pay for 24-hour offers from 2016. As I understand it, there is not such a clear picture in the assessment by the municipalities of the advantages and disadvantages of the parents' own pay. That is why my conclusion is also based on some fundamental considerations, namely that the legislation we have today is, in principle, right and that there is also the possibility of flexibility, which I fully agree with the rapporteurs in having to be there in order to ensure the best possible cooperation for the benefit of the child. That is what is at the heart of the matter here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103335	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. This means that we can now embark on the rapporteur's round, and first of all it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103359	Thank you, President. As a Social Democrat, I have always believed that children must have the very best opportunities in life, and unfortunately not all children have been given the opportunity to realise their potential and create a good life. This is particularly true of children who grow up in vulnerable families of parents who have and struggle with different kinds of challenges. As a society, we have a special responsibility to care for those children, so we must create as secure a framework for them as possible. That's why the government has also played out the children First, just put the focus on vulnerable children. There is no doubt that all parents love their children and try to do the very best for them, but there are also some parents who have great challenges themselves and where the children are put in second place. As a society, we abandon those children when we allow them to grow up in families with neglect, abuse and violence. That is why I also agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution and thank you for raising the issue that placements of children at risk are a social task, but that does not mean that parents should be deprived of their responsibilities as parents. It is still important that parents play a positive and active role in children's lives to the extent that they can now do so. Precisely when you are a parent, there are also obligations, such as: As parents, you have an economic and social responsibility. Therefore, parental payments also cover a number of expenses that parents would otherwise have had to bear if the children had lived at home. When SF here proposes to abolish parental payments, it is among other things. with the argument that the necessary cooperation with parents becomes more difficult. I agree with the SF that parental payments must in no way interfere with the cooperation of the municipalities with the parents in connection with the placement. This would greatly affect the children at risk, and no one wants to do so. Nor is it acceptable in any way if a municipality can reap more from vulnerable and vulnerable parents than they actually pay, but if that is the case, it is important to look at it. In relation to the motion for a resolution, I believe that if the SF considers it essential to negotiate parental payments, the SF could raise it in the negotiations on the children first. As it is now, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103634	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103639	Thank you. This motion for a resolution was made and tabled before the government came out, so for good reasons I could not really know when we were going to start those negotiations. But I'd be happy to take it to those negotiations too. I just want to ask you something. Back in 2016, when SF made this proposal for the first time, it was partly because we received a request from Aarhus Municipality, from the Social Committee in Aarhus Municipality, where the members of the committee, from the Social Democratic Party, from the Left, from the Danish People's Party and from the SF, wrote that they invited the social rapporteurs to work to abolish it here. And it was precisely because they experienced these shortcomings in cooperation with the parents that they experienced the administratively heavy, and they were in fact seeing as a municipality how far they could actually go to create an administrative basis where they did not actually charge it at all because they thought it was inappropriate. Does the rapporteur disagree with the Socialists in Aarhus City Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103747	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103748	To the first, which Mrs Trine Torp addresses, I would like to say that it is fair that the motion for a resolution has been tabled before. One might have chosen to say that this would be drawn because there would have to be discussions on children first, but full respect for what I fully understand, and I accept that. Whether I disagree with the team from Aarhus, my own hometown, I would say that the Social Democracy is a large party, and it contains a lot of different views on how to see a society, that is, how it looks from a local perspective from Aarhus, and how it looks from our chair. I am leaning completely against the Minister, who says that the variation that there has to be makes sense. I would say back to the committee members in Aarhus that they are welcome to make some other decisions in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103855	Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103857	But that is also what creates an incredibly uneven picture across the country. So it is evident that if you have a child placed, it depends on which municipality you live in, whether you are going to pay for parts of the placement or not. There the question can then be asked whether it is actually fair. The second question I would like to ask is whether the rapporteur believes that cooperation in general affects the fact that the caseworker has the dual role of assessing both whether a child should be placed with or without consent and also clarify this parental payment part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103934	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422103936	First of all, thank you. In fact, I think that in all our work on how to create the best possible placements, we really affect the work of the case workers and the relationship they have with both parents and children. And this point is central in terms of how we achieve the best results, i.e. children who are doing the best possible, children who are developing. I think it is essential that we discuss it, and so do we. Time's ticking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104015	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. And now it's Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104034	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution here deals with the abolition of parental pay claims for the placement of children and young people. The motion for a resolution states, firstly, that placement is a social task for which parents of children and young people are therefore to be exempted. Secondly, the motion for a resolution also points to exempting parents from payment, as payment constitutes an obstacle to good cooperation between families and municipalities. Finally, the motion for a resolution points out that the payment rules are complex and resource-intensive for municipalities to administer, and that there are major municipal differences in whether or not parental payments are collected at all. The Left agrees that it is necessary to inspect the location area in the municipalities, but it must never be bureaucracy and complex rules that cause parents not to pay their share of the placement. In 2015, the then government had a study anchored in the Ankestyrelsen, which should gain knowledge about the municipalities' management of the rules in the payment notice. The study showed that there is a lack of registration and that there is a wide variation in municipal parental pay collection practices. In addition, the survey also showed that on average only parental payments are charged in approx. 14% of all matters relating to placement. By that I mean that it is only fair that parents with an income above a certain amount should have an obligation to contribute financially to the support of their children. And that's whether they're placed or not. The rules governing placement, as they are today, are characterised by the fact that all parents have a duty of care and a financial obligation towards their children. And this is true even if the children are placed outside the home for a shorter or longer period. This means that as long as parents maintain custody of children, parents still bear responsibility for providing care and financial support to the child. In fact, we in the Left think that makes a great deal of sense. In cases of placement of children and young people, people often have to deal with vulnerable children and families who, for one reason or another, may have financial and personal challenges. This is recognised by the Left, which is why we believe that we must help as best we can. The placement of a child or a young person is a serious intervention in the life of the child and the family, whether or not consent has been given to the placement. Nevertheless, a placement of a shorter or longer duration may be the right tool for children or young people to have a better future. That is why it is important for the Left that the rules are properly and fairly administered and that there should be a clear ceiling on own payments as there is today. This means that we must ensure a much more uniform application of the rules across municipalities. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104308	There is a brief comment to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104311	Thank you. I actually expected it, because that was also the position of the Left when we last discussed the proposal. However, I would like to hear from the Left rapporteur whether the Left believes that it makes a difference whether it is placements with or without consent. Is it not a double penalty in those cases where it is actually against the parents' will that the child be placed, that the bill should then be returned to them for payment of the child's placement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104346	No, actually, I don't think there's a difference in that. The financial responsibility that one has as an official and as a parent, and which one has just wanted to continue in this placement, whether it is voluntary or not, I do not really think there is any change in, and the signal that one sends to the child on the outside is the same, and it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104412	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104413	But can the rapporteur see that it can actually affect that cooperation and that opportunity, for example, for example? to change a placement without consent with consent because there is a conflict between parents on an economic issue, which is an incredibly tiny part of the overall placement costs, but which can have very great and very damaging impact on the course of the case and thus also on the calm and stability of the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104444	The last thing that the rapporteur from the SF says about calm and stability for the child is quite crucial for us in the Left, and that is indeed what we have been working on both in the negotiations on children first and also in the legislative proposal L 68 that came last year. I just don't think it's the economic part that fills up. Now I myself have been on the children's and young people's committee in Odense Municipality, and the economic part has not been full. On the contrary, I think that there are many other examples where it is the whole emotional register that you are through, but I do not think it is the economic part. I simply do not think that the economic aspect, regardless of whether that is what determines whether or not cooperation between parents and authorities is working, should be what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104523	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And after a short cleaning, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422104545	Thank you. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that children are primarily the parents' responsibility and therefore not the responsibility of the state. The state must, of course, step in where families need help and support. At the moment we are in a debate on the children first, and I think it would be appropriate to raise this proposal there as well. Having said that, it is our view that if parents have the opportunity to contribute to their child's diet by placing them in a foster home or in a place of residence, they must, of course, as a natural part of having children. However, I also believe that there is a difference between cases, including whether there is treatment inside the home, that is, a placement outside the home may be, because a child has extensive disability and, in addition, that there is treatment inside or that a young person has a massive support need. That's why I think we should look at the family's overall situation. The municipality is now obliged to give a reasoned opinion as to whether the parents are covered by one or more grounds for exemption in the notice of payment, and if so, the municipality must then decide in concrete terms whether a full or partial exemption from payment can be granted. Paragraph 7 of the Order of Payments provides for the reduction and, where appropriate, exemption of parental payments in the event of daily bookings. And there are several different grounds for reduction and exemption, of which § 7, no. 1 and No 2 is the most widely used: although the financial situation makes it possible to impose payment, the municipal council has the possibility, on a case-by-case and individual basis, to grant full or partial exemption. The exemption may be justified on grounds relating to the child or the young person or the parents, for example, that (1) the stay has a distinct treatment objective; (2) the exemption from payment is particularly important in order to facilitate parental involvement in the implementation of the aid.... That is also what Mrs Trine Torp asked the former rapporteur, precisely in relation to the proper functioning of the cooperation. But around the country there is a very different practice in the municipalities for determining parental pay in the case of day-to-day placement, as is also evident from the survey that has been made today. The Board of Appeal, which is the supreme review body in this area, has made several decisions on parental pay in the case of day-to-day placement and establishes the principles for exemption from parental pay in the case of particular treatment purposes. But there are also dilemmas with this, because is it reasonable for the state to be able to bring a child against the will of the parents and then send the bill to the parents? Child benefit, child support and child support are no longer granted to parents. On the other hand, as parents, you have a caring assignment and a parent's assignment when you bring children into the world. And that's when that's said, I think SF also has a point in raising this. We have also mentioned this in previous readings. It is the case that, as rapporteur, you come back with your proposal when you do not get it adopted, and that is the re-submission of an earlier proposal from Mrs Trine Torp. There we also discussed the Ankestyrelsen's report, precisely in relation to the large difference in the municipalities. Some municipalities collect money, others do not; some municipalities do not know how to calculate the amount, and others do not really know if they get the total amount they have charged. And that is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is worth examining the calculations relating to the collection of the municipality, including the resources used to administer the rules relating to the collection of parental payments for placements of children and young people. If the amount exceeds what they actually receive in parental payments, it is simply bureaucracy. Whether there should be change in legislation or what the solution should be, I do not want to be determined at this stage. However, I would certainly like to help us discuss and examine the challenges in this area, including how we can possibly find a better solution to this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105009	There is a brief comment to Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105012	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for at least recognising that there are actually some dilemmas associated with this, and actually also try to see if there are any ways out of it. I appreciate that openness. I also know that some of what the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party are really concerned with is how to ensure parental cooperation and how to ensure proper association during placement, but also how to ensure a good transition if the child is to be returned home. One of the problems is, of course, that in this way parents' finances can be eroded in a way that may not be able to stay in the apartment where there is the extra children's room, or they cannot establish the opportunities that exist to actually bring the children home for a visit, without feeling like some guests who are visiting, i.e. they really have opportunities to be parents when they are there. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur is thinking that the removal of parental payments will be a way of making association better in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105124	Yeah, well, that's what I'm thinking. But there is an opportunity for the municipality to do so today in order to have better cooperation, also in relation to what the rapporteur mentions about housing and such things. And there one can then hope that the municipalities are in and assessing in relation to it. But I fully agree that there are some dilemmas associated with this. Now I have not had so many inquiries in this area, so I also have a lot of doubts about how big the challenges are in this area, but I think it is important to clarify. That is why I think that, as we are now in these negotiations, the SF could have included it as part of the negotiations we are having at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105210	Trine Torp, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105212	I've had that question before, that is why I haven't done it and that. It is partly because I have put it forward I could of course have chosen to draw it, but I have not done so, among other things. Because we know very well that in these negotiations we are talking about a thousand things, so this tiny part would probably drown, and I really think that it deserves its own treatment, because it is a fairly fundamental question whether we think that what we should use the powder on in cooperation with the parents is a fight about a few thousand kroner in the municipal accounts, while in the parents' accounts and trust and cooperation with the municipality it may be a pretty big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105253	Now I did not just hear a question, but I recognise that there are some dilemmas. In fact, I think that we should take the issue into account in the negotiations, because the negotiations we are holding are very extensive, one might say. So, in the Danish People's Party, we do not want one to have as one's goal, that one should have more forced placements and more television adoptions, and I also fully recognise that there is that dilemma: then one will have to bring his child against his will, and then there may be a bill afterwards. That is why I think it is important that we simply have an overview of how and how this is done in practice in all 98 municipalities in relation to the challenges that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105335	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105354	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the suggestion. It is a very relevant discussion; we are sitting right now, as has already been said, and discussing how we should all put the children in here first and in this context in relation to placing children outside the home. For the Radical Left, the fundamental point of departure is that children are parents' responsibilities, and in relation to the SF's proposals, for the Radical Left, it means that there is a difference in why a child is placed. A placement may be voluntary or a measure agreed upon and may have been made by coercion. In the first case, we believe that there should be parental pay as for any other publicly funded offer, from nursery and kindergarten to leisure homes and youth club. Here is the payment of parental payability, but of course it must reflect both the scope and type of the concrete measure, including disability. In the second case, I believe that the task is public. Parents should not have the wallet up for a placement they did not want. To that part of the proposal we are ready to discuss, but I also think we have to say that it already follows from the practice that, in cases where there are children placed under compulsion, these are families who do not have a means of payment. So that is the approach we want when we go to committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105511	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105515	Thank you. Maybe that's the overview we really need to get, that's what it looks like. There was indeed a case in Hjørring Municipality, I think it was, in January, when a couple had put their children and had received this bill, which actually meant that they would not be able to sit in the house in which they lived. The municipality of Hjørring has then later chosen to withdraw it, perhaps because there was so much attention around it. But that means, of course, that even if it is enforced, it is also used. One might, of course, wish that at least the municipalities themselves made the assessment that the rapporteur makes in his speech and assessed whether it was reasonable. But I could at least see that in this particular case that it did not, but then the decision was changed. So does the rapporteur think that we really need to know how it is distributed? Because we have a picture of how the municipalities manage it, but of course not of how it distributes itself in relation to placements with and without consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105614	As I understand it, the latest overview we have is from 2016. It's been five years, and it's an eternity in this context. There may be good reason to be curious about how practice is and develops over time, so I understand that we are looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105627	Then it is Ole Birk Olesen who also has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105633	Thank you. It was because of Mr. Henrik Vinther and the Radical Left's view that parents should continue to contribute to the support of their children in the case of voluntary placement, but not in the case of compulsory placement. Is Mr. Henrik Vinther is sure that this proposal has been entirely thought about? Because that would mean that parents who are in a situation where the authorities are asking for placement would very often not participate in voluntary placement, but would say no to it and wait for compulsory placement because they would then be free to pay part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105709	I trust both the case workers and the parents and that they know well what is good for the children who are out there and when there is a need for one thing and the other. If there are signs of anything else, that is exactly what we need to look at in relation to keeping track of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105721	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105723	It is no use every time you point out that certain interests can lead to some unfortunate outcome, that the Radical Left or other parties just say that you trust that all the people in the world are good. It is simply pointless. It is simply blue-eyed naivety to think that all people are doing only what is most appropriate for society as such and for their children. You can't just say the word trust and then think it's a password that makes all the problems go away.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105750	Let me now venture to say that trust is a good starting point for the dialogue we must have with each other about what is best for the child we face, and that is also true in this case. I would venture to say that if we now get the figures in a moment, hopefully in a moment, we will see that what I am saying is right, namely that forced labour is largely not paid for in advance. But let's get the numbers on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105809	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105823	I would like to thank the SF for an important proposal. As the SF rapporteur said in a brief comment earlier, this is a small area, but an important one. We are dealing with the fact that when families have their children placed, it is often, not always, but often just to emphasise the very vulnerable families we are dealing with. Of course, the fact that you have additional economic problems on top of the social problems you have, while at the same time your child may be forced to be brought, is not beneficial either for parental cooperation or for the desire to have your children placed voluntarily or, incidentally, for such confidence in the system. Nor is it good for the whole possibility of establishing a good homelife when the children are back home with their parents. When we hold it against the fact that more money is probably spent on the administration of this than is demanded, it makes very, very little sense. The Enhedslisten can support the SF's proposal and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105938	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we can go further with the rapporteur to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422105959	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution proposes to abolish the requirement for parental payments in connection with the placement of children and young people. The abolition of parental payments shall be justified, inter alia: the fact that a placement is a social task for which the parents of children and young people in care should not pay. In addition, the motion for a resolution mentions exempting parents, because payment can be detrimental to good cooperation between families and the municipality. It is also mentioned that the administration of the rules is resource-intensive for municipalities to manage and exceeds the amount they actually receive in parental payments. After all, the rules on parental pay are based on the principle that all parents have a duty to care for their children and that they also have a financial obligation, even if their children are housed. It is therefore the case that all parents with an income above a certain amount must contribute financially to their child's support. Conservatives believe that this principle is right to stand firm because parents are still the parents of the child and they maintain custody even if the child is placed for a shorter or longer period of time. At the same time, we believe that it is sensible that there should be a ceiling on the maximum amount of own payment. Conservatives cannot therefore support the resolution, but we are always open to discussing how municipalities can apply the rules in a more appropriate way, both in terms of administration and uniformity in local authorities in relation to the application of the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110146	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110150	Thank you. In relation to the argument about parental concern: does the rapporteur recognise that it can actually have an impact on parents' ability to be parents, that they lose both the benefits they would normally have if the children lived at home with them, and on top of this get paid? So that it can affect what kind of accommodation they can stay in and what opportunities they can give the children when they are with them. Is this a consideration on the part of the rapporteur that it is also the responsibility of the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110230	But it is true, as the rapporteur says, that there are some benefits, children's contributions and such benefits that fall away when the child is placed. At the same time, there are also some expenses that will not be in everyday life when the child is placed, and it is done in such a way that you have to pay this parental payment only when you have an income above, I think it is DKK 140,000. a year if I remember correctly. And then you do a calculation based on a distribution key in relation to it. And, of course, it can affect what the overall economy looks like to anyone. It is quite possible that this may well be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110318	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110321	That's right: it's $15,000. a year in such 2021 figures. Does the rapporteur think that this is a high income?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110333	After all, it is over in a slightly different discussion about what one earns and does not earn and what one has of public services and not public services. At any rate, I think it is fine that there is a limit on when you have to pay parent payments, and that there is also a ceiling on how much you have to pay in parent payments. Precisely to accommodate it, that is, if you do not have a very high income or income then that is exactly how it is taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110410	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And that's why it's after a little cleaning, and thanks for that, Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110437	The children are the parents', not the state. That's as simple as that, and that's why it's the parents'responsibility, of course... because they continue to have custody when the child is placed. Children are only on loan because they are the children of their parents. Some time ago, an older lady called me. She was 91 years old, and she has had many children in care in her and her husband's warm and caring home. Her clear message was: The children are on loan, they must have care and closeness while they are placed, but then they must then return to their parents if in any way possible. I fully agree: we must never think children and parents as detached parts, but think them as a unit. Like a tree or a flower torn from the ground, something breaks when you remove children from the family. In New Citizens, we do not share the ambition that more children should be removed from their families. Placement can never be avoided for some children, but it is the most invasive intervention in a family, and every forced detention must therefore be carefully considered and preferably prevented if possible. Of course, we support the question of the extent of the problem. It's always good to have more facts on the table. However, I would also like to say that we already have the possibility of exemption. This is specifically stated in Order No 712 of 19 June 2013, § 7. Let us look at more facts, but as a starting point we do not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110631	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go. Mette Thiesen It would also surprise me otherwise).
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110635	This is the whole thing about the kids being only on loan and having to go back. There I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that it is important what the economy of parents is and what opportunities they have for maintaining association and maintaining the housing where there may be a children's room for children. Does this have any bearing on their chances of actually bringing their children back home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110707	No, I think it's gonna be a little distracted. As a matter of principle, I think it is quite good that we should also support financially, in other words contribute to this, which is of course a help and which hopefully will enable the children to return home. But there are some other benefits that lapse. Now it says quite specifically 104,000 in the notice, but I could understand from the rapporteur that when it is converted to present figures, I would have almost said that it corresponds to approx. 140,000, and then there's an opportunity to make this individual, concrete assessment of whether you can maintain it here. But as a starting point, I think it is quite a fine principle that you contribute, of course, because the children are the parents, they are not the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110748	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110751	I wonder if those parents really don't want to contribute. I wonder if they wouldn't quite like to contribute by giving some things to their children, buying some clothes for them. Why should it be something that the state interferes with, that is, that they have to hand over money for that placement? Would it not be possible to have the confidence in parents that they are actually interested in contributing to the lives of their children?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110817	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110820	I think it's a little strange something you go in and discuss it. If we are in such an economic situation and if we have not used the opportunities already available in the announcement I mentioned before to exempt, then it is probably on the basis of an assessment that we can do so here. And then, as parents, in connection with the great work of proving your worth and showing that now you can bring your children or child back home, you may not just start to go out and buy a lot of toys and everything else, but like trying to hold back a little, so that you can prove that you can also make it financially coherent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110857	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110900	Thank you. I just want to hear about something. New citizens often believe that we have to save in the public sector and that we are able to save. I think it's about 50 billion. kr., which the party will use for tax relief, and which is believed to be to some extent to be found in the public sector. It's a very high amount of money. So if it turns out that more money is actually being spent on the administration of this than is actually being paid, what will New Citizens do about that problem financially? Should we then put up the parental pay in New Citizens' optics so as to cover administrative costs, or should we save the money that is after all on administrative costs, and then cut it off? What would be the approach here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422110953	In fact, that is precisely why I said quite specifically in my speech that I think we should look into this. That is actually what I referred to. Because if we have something that merely creates bureaucracy, we have to look at how it is actually screwed up. So it was really just to acknowledge that there are some facts I think we're missing about this. I also believe that we can all agree that the more facts, the better and that it can only make us wiser on the whole issue, so that we can therefore take a decision on a more concrete basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111019	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111022	So if it turns out that it's actually a public expense to recover this parental payment, is New Citizens willing to cancel it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111033	I would say that I think we should look at whether that is what the facts show. Because then I think we should take an active position on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111040	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. After a despriting, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111109	Piet Hein has written many good grubs it, and I know some of them in the head, and I think I can do this in my head... it sounds like this... little cat, little cat, little cat on the road, if are you? I'm my fucking own. And I know you can't fucking say from here, but I'm thinking, when it's a quote from a grit or a poem, it's gonna work anyway. The same is true of children: they are not parents, they are not state; they are their own. Fortunately, we have arranged our society in such a way, both biologically and culturally and legally, or that it is so that parents, when their children are born, love their children very much and deeply in a way that they have never loved anyone else before. And this leads, of itself, to parents having a desire to help children, to care for them, to care for them and to make their lives as good as possible so that they can enter adulthood and fend for themselves. In other words, it is a responsibility that they feel and a responsibility that they have culturally and legally in Denmark. Then it happens sometimes that some parents fail. They often have so much trouble in their own lives that they don't have the ability to take care of their children's lives, and then we're some other people in this society who say that we have to do it. And we have to do this either because we know the families, or we do it in the public system or in the municipalities or in the state, which we have set to handle the tasks when the parents cannot themselves. And then the children are placed outside the home, either by voluntary arrangement with the parents or by coercion. And that means that the responsibility to provide for the children on a daily basis has been taken away from the parents, because they cannot handle it. But the responsibility to support children, which they can handle because they have an economy for it, does not disappear for that reason; it still exists. The only responsibility you take from them is what they cannot handle themselves. The responsibility that they can handle, namely to make a financial contribution to the provision of their children, can be dealt with precisely, which is why they still choose to charge them some money to pay for some of the costs involved in the placement of their children, which the parents would still have if the children were at home with them. This could damage the economy of some of the families who have incomes that are high enough to contribute. And that's because while they've had the kids, and that's perhaps part of the problem, they've spent too much money on things that they shouldn't spend money on, and spent too little money on their kids. It will then be an additional cost for their children that the children will be placed, because there you will actually bear the financial costs that will be required to enable the children to have a proper childhood and the cost that the parents have not paid in the past. They have spent the money on things that were more present to themselves, rather than on those things that were unnecessary for their children, and therefore they find that there is now a minus in their economy when they are forced to pay what a child costs. That is why they must reduce their finances, and we do not think that is a problem; we think that it is a problem that they have in the past downgraded children and prioritised their own needs. And now they are forced to give financial priority to their children, and we would like to help them continue to do so. So for these reasons we are voting against the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111504	It is the case that when one chooses to quote, one must of course quote correctly. That's the way it is. A brief remark from Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111513	Thank you. I am a little surprised that this is something that parents should be obliged to do. Because if it is true, as the rapporteur says, and I actually agree with the rapporteur that children are their own children, that fortunately we are driven by love between parents and children, even if we may not have the full ability to care for the child in this way, in full, but need supplement to it, would it not also be possible to imagine that this paying to your children was actually something that was driven by love? Is that something we have to force our parents to do like that? The second question in this context is: what does the rapporteur think that means for the cooperation that should be with the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111611	I am quite sure that Mrs Trine Torp, who is very aware of this area, also knows of examples of families where parents spend their money on things that parents think are important, where they should spend more of the money on things that are necessary for a child to have a good upbringing. It is very obvious in families where there are abuse problems that the mother or the father or both often give priority to buying the things they are abusers of, rather than buying the things that are necessary for a good child growth. So the children are second in economic terms to those families. Perhaps this is also one of the reasons why children are placed, that parents have the attitude to having a child, that they come in second place financially in relation to parents' need for drugs, for example. So it is not always the case that, although we biologically love our children, we always do so in practice. Parents can also think very short-sightedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111716	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111719	In fact, we do not know what that is, which is why the children are placed in a position whether it is because they do not give priority to the children financially, but spend the money on something else. You know what I'm
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111749	Yes, at least financially, because the parents are charged, and it then goes to the children. And then parents have less money at their disposal for what they, while the children still lived at home, would rather spend the money on. This is bad. It is not just where we are talking about heroin abuse or the like: it is also people who would rather buy cigarettes than spend money on their children; it is people who would rather play games than spend money on their children; it is people who would rather have expensive housing than spend the money that is needed on their children; it is people who would rather spend money on the dog's food than on their children. So this is a widespread phenomenon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111824	We thank the rapporteur because there are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422111844	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the debate on a subject in which there are various dilemmas. When the SF has put forward a proposal here for the abolition of parental payments in connection with placements for children and young people, we have done so because we see a number of issues arising from the law we have today. It is already a vulnerable situation when a child is placed outside the home. In SF, we believe that good parental cooperation in placements is important. A child placed in e.g. a foster family, doesn't get a new family, no, but the child has a larger family, more adults to care for. Therefore, good parental cooperation is important, not least for the child. Parents still need to maintain a home with a children's room with extra clothes and shoes for the child in order to continue to provide a good framework for association and activities with the child whenever possible. Parents lose the right to child benefit, child support and child benefit in the event of a placement, and it is therefore only reasonable that a parent's allowance should not be included in the placement. Parental payments may make cooperation between the municipality and the parents more difficult. It is problematic when the same authority which places the child, with or without consent, also collects payment from the parents. The caseworker is given a dual role in parental cooperation, and that is not fair to anyone. Another major reason why we want to abolish parental payments by placements is that the rules are so complex that it is difficult for both employees and citizens to understand them. This applies both when the municipalities have to calculate how much the parents have to pay and when assessing the possibility of exemption from payment. Ankestyrelsen's study of the parental pay for daily offers from 2016 also concludes that the municipalities administer the rules quite differently. Some municipalities require payment in almost all placement cases, and other municipalities never require parental payments in placements. Then there is a great coincidence in whether you are the parents of a child placed in one municipality and in the other municipality. One of the reasons is that the resources used to deal with the rules are greater than the amount that the municipality receives from the parental payment itself, and I understand that if you are a sensible municipality that has done the math and says that you simply spend too much resources on it, you make an administrative basis that saves that unnecessary bureaucracy and that resources can be used better. I've got one of them. spoke with the City of Aarhus, who also recommended the abolition of parental payments when considering a corresponding proposal from the SF in 2016 and who then sent the call to the social rapporteurs. I have talked to them, and it is not the municipality's experience that any clarification has been provided by the Ankestyrelsen in relation to the interpretation of the rules. The difficulties with the interpretations of the rules remain therefore the status quo, which is why it was also important for the SF to resubmit our proposal from 2016. Because we do not really believe that the problems have been solved. Then a great deal has been said about this parental obligation, and I am very much in favour of maintaining that parents actually have an obligation and a responsibility for their children, even when they are placed, precisely because the child does not have a new family, but it has a larger family. But I'm just not sure it's the right place to use the gunpowder on what can you say to claim them that commitment. I think that much better energy should be devoted to ensuring good parental cooperation, ensuring that parents are more involved in their children's lives. In fact, I also believe that there is a completely automatic desire to engage in the lives of your children and perhaps also to contribute financially with the things you can. Then I think that this thing about having rules in the public sector, which probably cost more to administer than one gets into them, only because one has a fundamental view that parents should contribute, is basically nonsense. We often argue that the case workers already have a great deal to do in these cases. Is that where we think they should spend their time, that is to say to administer some rules that also have the battle page that I have described? But, of course, I also take down the positive statements that I can, of course, both from the Enhedslisten, who fully supported the proposal, but also from the partial statements that came from the Danish People's Party and from the Radical Left, that one would like to look at the dilemmas that are there and that one also wants some knowledge of how it really is distributed on placements with and without consent. So I hope that in committee we can get some answers to that, but also that we may at least, if nothing else, be able to land a report that we are pursuing it, and I have received the call a few times during the debate to include it in the debate on the children's debate first and, if it is possible at all, I will of course do so. However, I also thought that the issue deserved its own debate here in the Assembly, so I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112454	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112456	Thank you. In fact, I think there are many issues concerning the children first, which deserve their own treatment here in Parliament. But what I noticed, and I am actually very happy about that, was that the rapporteur said that children could not just be given a new family. For it has been the case with the play-out • The children first that the government will simply give children a new family and almost wipe out the biological source by stating that you will have more forced placements and more forced abortions. That is why I should like to hear about it from the rapporteur. I think that the rapporteur should take this into account in the negotiations, because I do not think that such legislation, which deals with the children first, should be rushed through. But I would really like to hear from the rapporteur about this: is it also the rapporteur's view that children should have the right to have their biological origin? One cannot erase the biological source, but unfortunately we can see that the government tends to want to do so by simply wanting to have more forced labour and more forced abortions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112604	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112606	Now I will let the government defend their views and just say a little about what I and what SF think. In other words, we think that parents mean something to children, even if they have little or no opportunity to have them with them for a short or long time, because they have some problems that they have to solve or because they really need more adults around the children because it is too big a job for themselves. We still think the parents are important. We also know from those who were placed themselves that their parents matter to them and that having association with their parents means an incredible amount to them. So it's pretty basic, and we also basically know that and that's also why I think this is so important that parenting is also important for the children in order to settle down in their placement, in other words, in relation to simply trusting that you have ended up in the right place. If your mother and father back it up, it's also easier for you to settle in, and if there's something that's harmful to children, then it's conflicts between adults.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112711	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112713	Well, I fully agree with that, and that is why it is also worrying about the placement reform, one might almost call it the one that was presented by the Prime Minister back during the New Year's speech. I hope, then, that SF will fight with the Danish People's Party precisely to increase the focus on prevention, i.e. the whole area of prevention, also in relation to alternative placements. It doesn't have to be either-or. If you have a mother who is mentally ill or a father who has some challenges for a few days, it may be that they can then make a positive contribution in all other ways, so that you can be with a family of friends and at home in a 7-7 scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112752	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112756	Thank you. At any rate, I would say that what is important to me and to the SF is that the children and families get the right help in time. And it is incredibly individual what is needed, and that is also why it is so crucial that we create a good framework to assess what children and families need, as for some it is some preventive measures, while for others it is placements. But that is the basis for the assessment and the decisions that are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112828	We thank Mrs Trine Torp. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112841	The debate is open. Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422112913	We shall now consider a motion for a resolution on nursing home boards and, as the President just reviewed, the motion is tabled by the Left, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. With the motion for a resolution, the parties will require the government to submit before 1 July 2021 a draft law on the introduction of mandatory local nursing home boards in the country's municipal nursing home. The aim of the proposal is for the nursing home boards to ensure better involvement of everyday life, residents, relatives, local fire-souls, municipal representatives, etc., and for the boards to have insight into and influence on current and local decisions affecting everyday life in nursing homes. I would like to start by saying that I, like the authors of the motion, want a welfare society based on the needs of the individual elderly and where the individual elderly experience self-determination and influence on their own lives. I therefore also share the intention of the proposers to ensure greater involvement of the elderly and their relatives in nursing homes. Older people are experts in their own lives and must therefore be involved as much as possible in relation to the care and help they receive. I also agree that the present and visible management of nursing homes, which residents and their relatives have the opportunity to go to, is crucial. The elderly have the right to a dignified, good and secure care of the elderly, in which presence, care and professionalism must guide the way in which care and care are provided. We in the government are not opposed to the idea that nursing home boards can be a way of ensuring greater involvement of the elderly and their relatives in nursing homes. A nursing home board can be a central body to which residents and relatives can go if there are challenges at the nursing home. The nursing home board would be able to hold the management responsible and ensure greater insight into and influence on the decisions that affect everyday life in the individual nursing home. It is also important to make it clear that there is nothing in the legislation today to prevent the establishment of a board of directors at each nursing home. We have set aside 245 million from the government's side in our first Finance Act, together with our Finance Bill parties. kr. to a number of projects and experiments aimed at providing more care and presence in the care of the elderly. Here, three municipalities are testing Brønderslev, Holstebro and Vordingborg right now new methods in relation to nursing home boards and citizen involvement in nursing homes. We are following the many experiments closely... that's 31 trials in 30 municipalities in total. I met, among other things. with the three municipalities that have experiments with nursing home boards, and I think that was Monday 12 April. Despite start-up challenges due to covid-19, all three municipalities are about to get started. The focus of the work is that the boards should strengthen the nursing homes by opening up to give influence to good local forces, including the relatives. One focus of the experiments is the recruitment of members to the boards. In all three municipalities it is not only relatives who have to sit on the boards, such as us. knows it from the school area. It can be difficult to recruit relatives who may live far away or have a busy everyday life. Therefore, there will be on the boards of directors, among other things. people from the local area, from associations, from the friends of nursing homes and other interested people who have something to offer. The municipalities also stressed to me at the meeting that it is absolutely crucial that the boards of directors should not mean more bureaucracy, but that the work of the boards should be about the citizens, just as a focus is on how long the boards should sit and how the members should be replaced on an ongoing basis. I am very much looking forward to following the three municipalities and the experiences they experience. That is why I would also like to stress, and this applies in general, but perhaps especially in the area of the elderly, that we must not legislate just to legislate. Before we begin to legislate on nursing home boards, it is important to collect both the experiences of those nursing homes that today have boards, councils or contact councils, or whatever it is called, but also the experiences that come from the ongoing attempts in this area, which we have helped to support financially with the financial law parties. Finally, I also think it is important to include the experience of the statutory department boards in the nursing homes. It is the departmental boards which must, as a general rule, consist exclusively of the residents. The departmental board shall approve, inter alia: the operating budget and the annual accounts of the department. If the residents have not chosen a departmental board themselves, the municipal council may decide to appoint the departmental board from among relatives or others who will be able to look after the interests of the residents. This means that there is already a statutory board of housing departments. Another initiative that we focus on in the government is among other things. to ensure greater involvement of the elderly and their relatives, and this is in our welfare agreements. With the welfare agreements in the area of the elderly, we release three municipalities from the vast majority of state and municipal rules. Our hope is that the municipalities will take advantage of that freedom to increase citizens' self-determination and strengthen the quality and flexibility of welfare for the benefit of the elderly and their relatives. Involvement and cooperation with relatives is also one of the six tracks being worked on in the follow-up to the Elder Summit. Elders The case is a rope-holder on track here, and a working group has been set up to identify the challenges and make recommendations for better involvement and dialogue with the relatives. It is exciting to follow the work and ultimately see what concrete recommendations it results in. Another track in the follow-up to the Elder Summit is management. As part of the work, pointers must be drawn up on how to carry out good professional management in practice, and different strategies are identified to reduce management constraints in the care of the elderly, so that there is a shorter relationship between management, citizens and their relatives. The motion for a resolution mentions the importance of a current leadership. I very much agree that it is essential to have visible leadership that is close to the citizens, and therefore I am also looking forward to seeing what comes out of that work. We in the Social Democratic Party and thus in the government have always been concerned with ensuring the involvement of residents and relatives in nursing homes. We were against it when, among other things, we were against it. The Left and the Danish People's Party in 2010 abolished the mandatory consumer and family councils. In this respect, it is worth noting that the then VK government considered that the abolition of compulsory consumer and family councils gave an administrative saving in the municipalities of 26 million. kr. annually, then back in 2010. It is an amount that we must assume is higher today. It therefore seems somewhat unrealistic that the motion for a resolution considers that the introduction of compulsory nursing home boards will not entail substantial additional costs, especially when one also considers the difference between the consumer and family councils that were abolished when the government was in power, and then nursing home boards with real influence, which must be more than just consultative. There will be administrative costs associated with the nursing home boards for management, for staff at nursing homes and probably also for management, just as it is unclear to me whether the proposers are thinking that the board's work should be paid or should be paid. As I have said, we share the intention behind the proposal. We, like the proposers, want to ensure greater involvement of the elderly and their relatives in nursing homes, and we have set in motion a number of initiatives on this. However, we cannot support the proposal here. On the one hand, we must await the experience of the experiments that have been started and, on the other hand, the proposal will require greater funding for current expenditure which will result from the content of the proposal. But thank you for the floor. I look forward very much to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422113713	Thank you. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422113717	Thank you. Well, one might wonder a little about the Minister's speech, because I remember when we had another senior minister named Thyra Frank. At that time, as rapporteur for the elderly, the Minister was the banner leader when speaking against our Minister for the Elderly, because there was a government, said the rapporteur, who had not put the elderly on the legislative programme. And now the Minister says that we should not legislate in the area of the elderly, but that a lot of initiatives have been put into the sea. Well, it seems a little strange to me. I think the Minister has forgotten what she said when she was rapporteur for the elderly. But I would like to hear about something, because in the Danish People's Party we have made several proposals in this area precisely to ensure that the elderly receive more valuable treatment. I mean, it is, for example, that the right to care should be written into the Service Act. But the government does not want that. It is also that the right to the rock card scheme should be written into the Service Act. You don't want that either. And to understand that, I just want to ask, how do we get out of here in relation to this whole nursing home board thing? Could it be imagined that the government will take the initiative to convene some negotiations in this area so that we have a dignified and caring care for the elderly? We can all continue to remember the TV 2 documentary, which was shown this summer, which showed some terrible neglects that were committed against our elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422113834	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422113838	It's always good with these questions, because if there's any misunderstanding about what you've said, you can solve them. I mean, I was just trying to tell the Danish Parliament kindly that we shouldn't legislate just to legislate. there are municipalities working on it under the 31 different development attempts in order to gain more presence and care in the care of the elderly, which was set in motion in the wake of the first Finance Act of this government. There are three municipalities which, under the welfare agreements, have been largely freed up, and I know that they are also working on this issue all together. So there's quite a lot going on. How are these boards of directors in the resolution, for example? play with the statutory department boards? I do not know what the proposers see. That would be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422113946	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422113950	In other words, the former rapporteur for the elderly has now become an elderly minister and has the opportunity to do a great many good things for our older fellow citizens. And this applies both to nursing homes and to home care, yet you do not want to be involved in anything. We have put forward several proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I can only mention the suggestion that criminal records should be obtained for public use in relation to nursing staff. It's shot down. Our proposal for a law on the elderly, which gives older people more rights, has also been shot down by the government, and now this is going to be shot down on nursing home boards. And the Minister answers that you do not have to legislate just to legislate, even though the Minister blamed a former Minister for not putting anything in the law catalogue. Well, it's a little embarrassing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114042	Thank you. In other words, the rapporteur wants to know now that the rapporteur was the rapporteur on the subject that we have already been law-reading in this area during the time I have been Minister for the Elderly, so it is a rather thoughtful criticism to raise. This government is deeply concerned about the elderly. The area of the elderly is, of course, one of the creators of our welfare society and our social model, and that is why from day one we also have a • unlike the previous government, which the Danish People's Party supported • insisted that the money should accompany the municipalities when more older people arrived. And so far that means a boost of over 3 billion. kr. Every year to the municipalities, for example. a dignified care for the elderly. In addition to this, we have initiated 31 specific development attempts with the care of the elderly under the heading "More care and presence in the care of the elderly," which among other things. is about what we are discussing here today. We ourselves together have a process going on in relation to supervision. I can say that one of the incredibly exciting things I heard at the meeting I had with the three municipalities where you work on this came from an senior Council President who called for us to think about this together with local supervision. I find that incredibly exciting. So far, we have two meetings on the calendar together before the summer break. So in order to be able to say that nothing is going to happen, I guess you have to put your eyes in front of the blind eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114147	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114155	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I note that the Minister said that the Minister was not opposed to the motion for a resolution. You might call that a soft landing, and you have to remember to take hold of the small straws which are, in some way, able to invite you to dialogue, so I have at least noted that the government is not dismissive. But I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who says that much of what the Minister says sounds a little hollow. The minister says that the government wants influence and self-determination for the elderly, then, minister, we are in the process of law-making a bill here in the Danish Parliament, which is supposed to deprive older people of the right to free elections. So it sounds hollow. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: what is the government's response to the thousands of relatives who sit out there with a mother or a father or a sister or a brother and feel and many of them rightly feel that their loved ones do not get the care and care that they need and that they need? They are not listened to by the staff, by the management and, as history has shown us in many cases, not by the municipal council either. What is the Minister's answer? Is it just that now we have to wait for these little experiments that the Minister has started around to end in two or three years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114320	Thank you. No, you cannot say that in any way, even if you listened to the answer I just gave to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. We are faced with quite a lot of quite major joint discussions on our care for the elderly, which are about better involvement of relatives, better involvement of the elderly's own self-determination, greater self-determination for the elderly than today. This is what we do in the welfare agreements, which hopefully can bring us some new solutions, some new breaks, some answers to some of the fundamental problems of our care for the elderly. We are also doing so in the six tracks following on from the Older People's Summit. We do that when we discuss supervision here in the Folketing. I would say that I am not opposed to the idea that nursing home boards can be a real solution. I wish we could look at the many different forms it has out there already today and look at where it works well and what is of drawbacks. There must surely still be some reflection in the Left about why the compulsory consumer-related advice in the area of nursing homes was abolished at the time. That's something the Left did. Social democracy was opposed at that time. That is why we must ensure that we have legislation that actually ensures an increase in quality out there for the elderly and their relatives and does not become another layer of bureaucracy and over-management that is being put down over our care for the elderly. Our care for the elderly has more than enough of that. I think our care for the elderly needs us to think very carefully before putting new bureaucratic demands on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114439	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114441	Thank you for that, President. But, Minister, there has been nothing happening on the part of the government since the Elder Summit. It was last fall. The Elder Summit has to date! Nothing has happened in terms of strengthening the management battles. Nothing has happened in terms of strengthening involvement or in terms of strengthening dialogue. I agree that the government has launched what is called development cooperation or a forum for dialogue, but that has not led to action. Nothing happened. Everyday life has in no way changed out there in reality, where the elderly sit and look out the window and the relatives go and are sad because the dignity, care and empathy are lacking. So what's the government's answer? What is the government's honest answer to the relatives who have been listening for almost a year now to the fact that we have had an older summit?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114553	Thank you. Both the Minister and the rapporteur speak for a long time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114558	I'm sorry. That's the way it is when you're passionate about it. It is weird to have to listen to the Left's criticism, which was behind a government that would not allow the money to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people in the municipalities and that nothing is happening in the area of the elderly. In our first financial law, we set aside funds, which means that 31 municipalities are now in the process of implementing, among other things. to develop models for autonomous teams, for closer related involvement and a wide range of exciting things. In this year's Finance Act, we lifted care for the elderly by 1.8 billion. kr. to higher professionalism and more employees. We have made an extraordinary boost to the taximeter grant at the sosu schools. We have allocated funds to demography and more to both our economic agreements. We are going to make a welfare law so that hopefully we can tie up a future bourgeois government to keep up with the money when there are more elderly people. So I'm gonna have to call in the house when the Left is trying to draw the picture that this government isn't deeply committed to the elderly. We are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114647	Thank you. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, because there are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422114708	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank you to the parties for putting forward the proposal to set up boards in nursing homes. In the Folketing I think all parties agree that it must be important for all municipalities to be concerned about citizen-close welfare, that aid to the elderly fellow citizens takes place in close cooperation with the individual citizen and, of course, also the relatives. No one can disagree that good care for the elderly, among other things. depends on whether the citizen himself has an influence on the aid. Last summer, when the story of Else and other older citizens filled the media, we were all reminded that good care for the elderly is not just about resources. Good care for the elderly is also about good management, employees' conditions It requires high professionalism of both managers and employees, but it also requires the possibility of providing professionalism. We must realise that, with politicians' eagerness to streamline and control for a number of years, we have tied the public sector so tightly that it has not been able to breathe. There is a great deal of regulation and bureaucracy which has pushed out the opportunity for employees to make presence in the care of the elderly in many cases. Relatives experience difficulty when they want to engage in dialogue with staff on the care of their loved ones, citizens experience that they are seen to be demanding if they have a need that does not exactly fit in with a quality standard, and employees find that they cannot provide the citizens and the relatives with what they need. So yes, there is a reason why we, a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, have said that we would like to set seven municipalities free to return to professionalism and set it free. Thank you to the many parties that have sent the very clear signal to both citizens and employees: you know best. I am therefore somewhat surprised that four parties have just today put forward a proposal to oblige municipalities to set up boards in all nursing homes. I have no doubt that it is very well-intentioned, but when I have asked out in the municipalities, I do not meet so many people who can see the model quite clearly. Several have raised the question: What can a board of directors like a user/family council, for example? Can't? And what should the responsibility of the board be, since it is now the responsibility of the municipalities to comply with the legislation? How much time and energy does it really have to be taken from management and employees and used to service a board of directors instead of serving citizens? Then it is also the case, as the Minister said, that there is nothing to prevent us from setting up boards in a nursing home if we want to. There are also relatives who tell me that they really want to be allowed to be relatives and not spend time sitting on a board of directors. You may know that there isn't much time left to be a relative in. I would also like to say to the four parties that I am sure that in future good care for the elderly will be characterised by more citizen involvement and more family involvement. It just makes really good sense. We must remember that the homes in a nursing home today are rental homes in which citizens pay rent to live. The nursing homes are private homes, and we must have respect for that. It is the case that if you are a citizen or a relative experiencing the need to turn something around with an employee or management, it should not wait for a board meeting. Of course, there must be an opportunity to get in touch with an employee or management during a normal day in everyday life. So, like the Minister, let us at least wait and see what is happening, not least in the municipalities, but also in the follow-up to the older summit. I firmly believe that the municipalities are in full swing to focus on precisely this area: better user and family involvement. So social democracy cannot support the proposal, but we certainly do not close doors to the fact that boards can also be an option. We just don't want all municipalities to do the same. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115137	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115141	Thank you. Respect for my own home is shared; it is the home of the elderly. But it has been seen here under the corona that the government has at least banned the elderly from having a visit to their own home and could almost also get out of the nursing home. However, having said that, I would like to say to what the rapporteur says about who is going to be yours and who is going to be in relation to these nursing home boards, that it says at the bottom of page two of the motion for a resolution: the concrete field of action and powers of the Board of Directors must be defined together with stakeholders in the field of legislative work. The proposal is not considered to entail significant additional costs for the municipalities. Any costs incurred in starting up the boards in 2021 shall be financed by the Danish Finance Act 2021. It was just like there in relation to the work of the board. If the rapporteur has not read the motion for a resolution correctly and properly, I would just inform the rapporteur of it in relation to what it is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115242	Thank you. But of course I have, and I totally agree with that. Well, what we in the Social Democratic Party are so concerned about right now is that we are not once again making this solution from Christiansborg, where we say one size fits all, but that the municipalities themselves have the opportunity to do exactly what the proposer may in fact want to do. The municipalities are already free to do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115301	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115305	What is interesting is that the rapporteur says that a very good agreement has been made to set some municipalities free. In relation to the welfare agreements, there are some municipalities that are, like, allowed to put the legislation out of effect. And I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that, in relation to the rights of the elderly today, we have the option of being free to choose which nursing home you would like to live in, and the possibility of being able to choose your helper in such a way risks the elderly losing all the things and rights in relation to the welfare agreements. Middelfart Municipality was at the time saying that the supervision we have in nursing homes today, which is mandatory in relation to the Board of Patient Safety, one does not want. So can we not at all see that there can be some challenges in relation to what the Social Democrat rapporteur calls welfare agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115406	In the welfare agreements, the municipalities have to provide the elderly with the care and assistance that the elderly need, which is why it is the responsibility of the municipalities, and it is also the municipalities that have the opportunity to assess exactly what is appropriate in our municipality. And I guess there's no local authority I can't see that... that's gonna make it worse for the citizens. On the contrary, I can easily see that, by looking at new paths, you can see how things are doing in new ways that fit better into the reality of the municipality in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115427	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115430	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Socialist rapporteur for keeping a door open for that, at least. The rapporteur is asking a little rhetorical: who is even supporting this motion for a resolution? I think I will just be able to quote briefly from the article of Everything today, and that is the Elder Case, which I shall quote very quickly here. It says: 'Olders The case is positive about the proposal. And, of course, it is crucial that the elderly and their relatives are heard. It's their life it's all about," says senior consultant Nina Bruun. So who's supporting? Yeah, it does, among other things. Older Case. Do the Social Democrats not even realize that the Elders case actually backs this proposal and listens to the Elders' voice? And no matter how you turn it around, you have to say that the Elders Case, after all, is talking to a certain amount of gravity in such a case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115530	I am quite sure that the Elders Case also speaks on the basis of great knowledge in this area, and I have great respect from the Elders Case. What we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned with is that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the care of the elderly in the municipalities; it is the municipalities that have to make the decisions that are best suited to their care of the elderly. There aren't two municipalities that are the same, and there aren't two nursing homes that are the same. But great respect for the Elders Case, of course, and the Elders Case is also one of the very close partners of the Elders Summit, with which I also know that the Elders Minister is in close dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115600	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115604	Thank you. I am not surprised, in fact, when the Socialists say that they are concerned with the municipalities, that is to say, with such a strong system of thinking. And that is where the roads really divide, in other words, in the Left we are concerned with the citizens and the citizens' perspective. But of course respect for the fact that the Socialists are the guardian of the system. The Social Democrats will wait and see. That is what the rapporteur said in his speech. But I just want to say that on the Left side we are extremely impatient. We want to get started, and we think that the relatives, but also the elderly, deserve to listen to them. What is the Socialist rapporteur's response to the thousands of relatives who lack better care and more dignified care for the elderly? We heard that the Minister had no answers to the relatives, but do the Socialists have a clear answer to the relatives who are worried and sad and lack care, dignity and empathy in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115700	I do not know whether the rapporteur of the Left has been in contact with employees and relatives here recently, but my experience is that there is incredibly good care in the public sector and that it is not as bad as it may sometimes sound. But it is quite clear that what is our message to relatives is that we take this very seriously and that we take it very seriously. That is why it is also very important to us that in the future we look into more citizen involvement, more user involvement, more family involvement, but it must be the case that the needs of the individual citizen are taken into account and that this must be based on the individual citizen in the individual place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115745	Thank you. There are no comments, and that is why it is the next rapporteur, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422115811	In the summer of 2020 TV 2's heartbreaking documentary was rolled around. Else Marie Larsen from Aarhus over the screen. Not only unworthy treatment, derogatory speech and neglect of care were identified, but also how the relatives' influence is totally absent. Family members have repeatedly complained about failure to provide care, both to the nursing home staff, the management and the municipal council, without being heard or taken seriously. It is simply not acceptable for older people and their relatives to be driven over and over again without anyone listening to it or acting on it. It is simply unworthy when the neglect of the worst drawer is allowed to continue unsatisfiedly. When older people, as we saw in the documentary, are made into one thing that the system has to deal with, the raw materials are seriously moved under the skin and it must be stopped. Older people must be treated with dignity, care and care of high professional quality, just as we treat all other groups in today's Denmark. On that backdrop, the motion for a resolution is tabled here by the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party, and I would like to thank my good colleagues for their cooperation on the motion for a resolution. One might have wanted the pictures from Else Maries and Niels' everyday life in Aarhus and Randers to be single swallows, but there are many such cases, unfortunately. The Left and the other three parties want the government to put forward a bill on the introduction of mandatory local nursing home boards in the country's municipal nursing home. The nursing home boards must ensure more and better involvement and, not least, dialogue in everyday life. On the boards of directors, for example: nursing home manager, staff, residents, local fiery souls, municipal representatives and relatives have a place. With local nursing home boards, we ensure greater insight into and influence on current local decisions affecting everyday life in nursing homes. Each nursing home board must be able to hold the management responsible in order to ensure that elderly people are met by dignified care with close presence and care, and of course also in relation to ensuring that the value base is lived out and is intact in everyday life, for it is clear after TV 2's documentary, which was called the care homes behind the facade, that care, presence and empathy are totally absent all too often. I am, of course, aware of the fact that there are nursing homes which contribute a great and important effort, both where care is at the top and where the relatives feel listened to and taken on board. After all, they are also the ones who know their relatives best, so that should be the case everywhere. In the wake of TV 2's documentary, an already planned older summit was held in the autumn of 2020, and that was it. Since then, the government has been quiet, virtually. Last week I read a mandate from the municipality of Brønderslev, and that was also what the minister referred to where it has already been decided to introduce boards in local nursing homes, and these are very fine objectives that are being worked on, among other things. satisfaction among residents and relatives, strengthening management and attractive jobs and raising quality, care and presence. I would like to quote a little from the terms of reference, in relation to what the task is: The board's task is especially to help fire the care center and to be a good sparring partner for the management and, in addition, to involve civil society, so that Brønderslev Municipality has opened up accessible care centers. There must be a huge praise to the municipality of Brønderslev for making the attempt here. We know from, for example. free care homes, that local boards raise both the level of care and the level of care, and that raises the level of dialogue and reduces the level of conflict in general. I am aware that the experiment in Brønderslev has been initiated by finance from the Red Government, but it does not change the fact that the municipality of Brønderslev should be praised for doing the experiment and for creating a forum where professionalism and interests can meet through fruitful dialogue to make everyday life as good as possible for all parties. We know about it, among other things. from the school board model. The school board does not control the choice of manager, but one has influence on both large and small, also on the choice of headmasters. Many years ago, when I was the student council chairman of my primary school, I sat on the school board as a student council representative. It was super educational, and I have often in the years to come thought about how beautiful democracy can be when you listen at all levels and dare to have an open-minded debate or dialogue. We lack this in the municipal nursing homes: a space for open-minded dialogue, where the elderly and their everyday lives are placed at the centre. I am pleased to note that among other things. The Elders case supports the proposal here, and I hope that Parliament will support the motion for a resolution so that together we can get closer to both dignity, care and empathy. Our elders deserve that after a long and hard life. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422120315	Thank you. There is no comment on Jane Heitmann, so we move on. This is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422120342	Thank you. This proposal is about us wanting the government to put forward a bill on the introduction of mandatory local nursing home boards in the country's municipal nursing home. The nursing home boards must ensure better involvement of the residents, the relatives, local fiery souls, municipal representatives in everyday life, i.e. greater insight and more influence on current and local decisions affecting everyday life at the nursing home. The individual nursing home board must be able to hold the management responsible in order to ensure that the elderly are met with dignified care with presence and care. In the Danish People's Party we want a welfare society based on the needs of the individual elderly. A nursing home is the home of the resident and therefore the elderly, their relatives also need to have a greater influence on the everyday life of the nursing home. It is therefore vital that there is an active and visible leadership, and that residents and relatives have a direct opportunity to shout if the leaders are unable to carry out that task. Visible management means to me that you have a manager who is not only present from 7 to 15 or from 8 to 16, but of course also knows what is going on in the evening and at night, on weekends and on public holidays, in short, a manager who is responsive to the employees, relatives and knows the wishes of the residents and their life stories, and not least their needs. In addition to management and employee representation, the nursing home board at each municipal nursing home may also consist of residents, relatives and fire-souls. It may also be a member of the municipal council, yes, it may be more. That is the kind of thing we can put ourselves together and possibly negotiate on, that is, how and what it will look like if we get that far. We have witnessed unacceptable failures in the area of the elderly, relatives who have neither been heard nor listened to. The Alzheimer's Association has published a report on phone calls to the association's telephone line, and it is shocking reading. The main conclusion of their report was that there are so many examples of poor and dangerous treatment and serious failure in the basic care and care of people in nursing homes that it resembles a pattern of systematic failure to some of the most vulnerable and sick patients in the Danish healthcare system. The conditions in too many nursing homes in Denmark are not only unworthy but also directly dangerous to health and pose a serious risk to the lives and health of dementia patients. In particular, relatives have pointed to the lack of professionalism of staff as the main cause of the many problems of care failure and inadequate and dangerous care. The complaints, which the Alzheimer's Association has so noted, are an important testimony, which is basically a huge declaration of bankruptcy, because we fail to ensure a vital quality in the treatment and care of too many seriously ill patients and elderly citizens in the country's nursing homes. The issue • Care homes behind the facade are clearly on the retina. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that action is needed, and that is why we also drafted a proposal for an older law that should help to ensure that older citizens receive more dignity, care and direct influence on their daily lives. The Older People's Act should include minimum standards in the care of the elderly, a strengthening of supervision in nursing homes and the right to care, which is also not currently enshrined in Article 83 of the Services Act. However, with the introduction of a genuine right of care, the elderly are also able to react if it is found that the citizen does not have the care to which he or she is entitled in the event of neglect of care. Unfortunately, in the Danish People's Party we were right alone in the Assembly Hall, and our proposal was shot to the corner. Older citizens must, of course, be involved in their lives and help control their own lives, and this also applies in cases where the elderly citizen suffers from dementia and may only in some cases be able to make some decisions themselves. After all, the rock card system is a good example of a good system in which the elderly citizen can choose for himself what the extra aid he or she has is to be used for. It could be a trip to the hairdresser or a bike ride on a rickshaw bike, it could be several different things. Several municipalities have unfortunately chosen to abolish the cutting-card scheme, which is why we of course also believe in the Danish People's Party that it should be statutory. We also hope that there will be support for this proposal that we are discussing today, if only we hope that the Minister will call for negotiations in this area. It is also true, as the Minister says, that we have dealt with a bill to strengthen supervision, and I would like to say that this was something that the Danish People's Party raised in the negotiations we had on the reserve, precisely in terms of strengthening supervision, but it should also be the case that relatives had a place to approach. Finally, I would like to say that there are a great many skilled employees in our care sector, but unfortunately we have also witnessed stumbled vessels. So the most important thing for us is to ensure that our older fellow citizens have good and dignified care and good care for the elderly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422120859	Thank you for that and there are no comments here either. The next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422120918	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting it forward. I really think there is a lot to do when you get old and fragile and need help. And if, at the same time, you find it difficult to express your own needs, we will see more examples of the fact that older people simply do not get the help they need. We're not gonna solve that with nursing home boards. We only solve this with well-trained permanent employees who have a good relationship with the elderly. Relatives are often a vitally necessary support, and I am concerned about many of the elderly who have no close relatives who can help. Good and close cooperation is essential for dignified care for the elderly. We also agree that the foundations of the welfare society risk crumbling if we fail to provide the services, presence and care that older people need. It's heartbreaking when Else and Niels in the TV documentary obviously don't get the help they need. It's just that it's not a board that's supposed to take care of it. It is the responsibility of the local manager to ensure that the residents receive the necessary help, in cooperation with the resident and the permanent social and health assistant. When the proposers compare school boards with the proposal on nursing home boards, I really think it is important to remember that we do have custody of our children, at least for a while, but we do not have custody of our parents. This is far from always true for our parents when they move to nursing homes, and many residents will not have the time at all to perform the duties of a board of directors. The replacement of residents in nursing homes means that there will be a lack of continuity on the proposed boards, and if the nursing home board is to have decision-making powers with regard to management, it also requires that the board members are the same over a longer period of time, and we think that is actually really, really difficult at the country's 900 nursing homes. It is equally difficult to determine what decision-making powers a nursing home board should have, but I note that the resolution states that the specific field of activity of the board should be defined with stakeholders in this area. But Else and Niels must first of all have help in a way that they themselves find worthy, and in direct cooperation with permanent employees, and not through their neighbors' relatives. Need for help We support in the SF that in the country's nursing homes you can have relatives' councils that can coordinate activities in dialogue with the nursing home. However, we do not support forcing the country's nursing home to introduce compulsory nursing home boards. This does not mean that we do not believe there is any need for improvement, because it is there. If I were to give just some examples, and also some of those that the proposers have actually highlighted, then I think it makes great sense to invite the town council members to the nursing homes and let them get involved more. I also think that supervision should talk to both residents and relatives when it is the case that they are there. And I also think that care and care are healthcare, which should be covered by the rules on patients' compensation. I think that the municipal council should be obliged to collect complaints from citizens and relatives. I also think that the municipal council should be obliged to explain when older people will be refused an application for help at a nursing home or, for that matter, at home care. And I also think that the municipal council should be able to explain what citizens are paying for when it is the case that they receive bills for more and more user payments in the care of the elderly. And, above all, I think that I think it would make sense to have more permanent staff with time for relations with the elderly. It is just to mention some examples of improvement measures. But boards aren't one of them. Boards will only mean that we have to hold more meetings and that creates more bureaucracy. I am concerned that, when we improve the care of the elderly, we do so with more staff who can provide citizens with the help they need, no more and no less. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121354	Thank you. Now there are some comments. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121359	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. After all, I very much agree that there is a need for well-trained staff. That is then one way to go, and there are more ways to get a good and worthy care and care sector. But that is why I would like to hear: is there, on the part of the SF, a complete exclusion from nursing home boards? Because I'm thinking that one doesn't rule out the other. The rapporteur then had a number of things in relation to improvements that the rapporteur listed, and the Danish People's Party has among other things. minimum standards proposed, including with regard to legislation on a clipboard system and the incorporation of care into the legislation, but the SF rejected that in relation to making an older law. So is it the case that we can see that there is a motion for a resolution from the SF in relation to ensuring a better and worthier care and care sector in the area of the elderly? Or what can we expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121458	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121500	But care for the elderly is a priority, among other things. also in the recent Finance Act, which has also provided an opportunity to do some of the things that need to be done to bring about improvements, and I am concerned that the help that we agree on is the help that directly benefits the citizen. I think we tend to create a new structure or, as in this case, a board of directors every time we see a problem. However, the need is really to be present and able to have time to listen to Niels trying to say that he needs to go to the bathroom, and if you saw the broadcast, you also saw that there was a lot of staff who did not actually manage to see that it was what he needed. I think that, as I am now, and with the background I have, was about simply not knowing the resident well enough, and I do not think that is worthy of care for the elderly. That is why I believe that permanent staff and continuity are the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121600	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121602	Yes, we agree with that. I know the area from before because I have been working as a social and health assistant and helping out in the sector, and it is crazy to witness that so many staff can go by Niels and not register at all what he wants and what he actually tells, and it is crazy that it can happen. But I would like to hear the SF's rapporteur: how do we get there if the SF does not want to be part of this, which is a solution, and the SF does not want to be part of minimum standards or an old law? So how do you actually get this closeness and dignity and care done in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121650	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121651	I really think that, as we have gotten more and more standards, it has become harder and harder for the citizen to get exactly the help that the individual himself seems to need. That is why I think it is actually sincere when I say that the aid that the elderly should be offered is the help that the elderly agree with a firm helper and that, in cooperation between the citizen and the employee, there is the possibility of making the arrangements necessary to provide dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121725	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121729	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. After all, the rapporteur's party is also very committed in the area of day-care in relation to our smallest fellow citizens, and management boards are very much used there. I have two small children myself, and one goes to the crèche where there is also a board of directors, which among other things. struggles a lot to ensure that there is a gold mark in ecology in the institution. It is a battle that the board has chosen to engage in. It is, of course, such a small but very specific example of how you can help shape the institution in which some of your allegiance has their everyday life. And my daughter only goes to an institution for a few years, as well as in a nursing home may be that it's only a relatively few years you have your next of kin that. Why can the rapporteur not see the scam on a board of a nursing home when, for example, you have it in day-care institutions, where it gives this participation and participation to something that is your family so close?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121826	But the first crucial difference is that I do not have custody of my parents as opposed to my children for whom I am responsible while they are young and for which I also have to take care while they go to day care; and I am responsible for them while they go to day care. At the same time, as parents, we live close to where our children go to institution. It's pretty practical, and fortunately we do. That is not necessarily the case when we talk about the elderly, where you can live at different ends of the country. So there are already many differences that make it difficult to do so. Then I would say that as a person I would find it difficult to go to the neighbor's next of kin, who happens to be a board member, in order to take care of my own personal interests in relation to the care and care that I need. It is a matter between the individual citizen and the employees. And I also think it is important to remember that it is the citizen himself who really should make those decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121932	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422121934	I don't think anyone feels less responsible for their parents just because they don't have custody of them, so I don't think the comparison quite lasts in relation to our children. However, the rapporteur does not recognise that there are some cultural problems in some of our nursing homes, such as: Is it also what has been expressed in the TV 2 documentary and that something like this could be addressed to a greater extent if one had a more close place as a board to go to where one felt one could address such concerns about culture, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122003	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122004	Well, first of all, I think this is a management responsibility. When we talk about culture in a nursing home, it is the responsibility of management to ensure that the tone and the way we communicate with each other are in order. But I also think it is important to bear in mind that there is a real difference between how to approach two different citizens. I also know this from my own practical experience. And then I would just like to stress: yes, we as relatives have a huge responsibility for our parents, and I am really worried about those who do not have relatives who can help in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122038	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122041	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It is quite so, what should we say, rather bizarrely, to hear the rapporteur speak so committedly against nursing home boards, when we have just heard from the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, that the Red Finance Act has in the past set aside funds to actually experiment with boards in nursing homes. I'm just wondering why the SF has even supported that bill when you basically think it's a really bad idea. Because what I understand is that this is the responsibility of the local leader. If we are now trying to rewind back to the summer of 2020, when TV 2's documentary was rolling over the screens behind the facade, and the rapporteur is just thinking about the nursing home in Aarhus, how does the rapporteur think that the nursing home management there has lived up to their responsibilities? Is that really what we have to stick to, that is, that it is the responsibility of the nursing home management? In other words, does the rapporteur think that it was quite right to leave that responsibility to the management alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122145	In the end, it is also the responsibility of the municipal council, but it is then the responsibility of a care home manager, how culture is at work, as a nursing home is also. I sincerely believe so. And I also think it would be difficult for a board to have an overview of it. I think it is crucial that we ensure that there can be good relations between citizens and staff, because it is in this context that we can ensure the proper care of the elderly. And it is not, in fact, because I stand here and speak against nursing home boards as such, but I am concerned that we are not creating more bureaucracy, and I am concerned that the proposers are just highlighting this television documentary and saying: Therefore, we must now set up nursing home boards at all nursing homes in Denmark. Because it creates more bureaucracy and it just creates more meetings, and it does not solve the problem of the lack of time to create the relationship between citizens and employees that can make the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122254	Thank you. Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122255	I just have to say again that I am a little puzzled that SF would like to have relatives' councils that should have an impact on the activities of nursing homes, but that you do not want boards where the relatives should have an influence on whether you live up to the value base of nursing homes. I mean, I think it's a bit difficult to say, and I actually think, if I'm to be completely honest, that it's a lot if I have to say it nicely, disrespectfully to say to the relatives: you can influence activities, but you can't influence the value base that we have at the nursing home, and whether the management lives up to it, and if my loved ones, my mother, my father, my sister or brother get what to say, seen and cared for, for example. high standard of health care. We can't leave that to the next of kin. I think that's actually very disrespectful. I'm sorry, I'm gonna say it out loud. I note here, too, that the SF notes that if we can maintain the status quo, in other words, as we are doing today, then everything is good. And there I just have to say that the story, among other things. from TV 2's documentary, of course, has taught us that neither in Else's nursing home nor in Niels' nursing home were management responsible. Does SF really think they did it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122413	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122414	The SF is not in favour of the status quo. That is why we have also fought to ensure that, among other things, we do not lose sight of the fact that we are in a position to do something about it. In contrast to the previous government, the municipalities had the opportunity to follow demographic developments, that is, when we get more and more elderly people, then there will also be relatively more money. And then we are concerned that we can work for more permanent staff, so that you do not have to have such a swing door staff at the nursing home, and so that you actually have time to get to know each other. And I am concerned that it is the individual elderly themselves who should help define what worthy care of the elderly is for the individual and not a board of directors. And you can only do so if you ensure that there is a good relationship between the employee and the individual elderly. It's important to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122456	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122501	Thank you so much. I wasn't really going to comment, but I just have to. I myself come from the world of school, where we are very used to boards, and there you also sit as head of school and have a board that can indicate if there is something that they are dissatisfied with. As a starting point in the area of the elderly, that board consists of relatives and in the school world of the parents of the children. Why is the SF so afraid to listen to those who can actually follow the treatment their relatives receive in that nursing home and that the manager is also obliged to listen to them to ensure that the elderly receive proper care?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122547	SF is not afraid of boards. SF believes there is a huge difference between a school board, where we have a common goal that our children should learn something, and where parents also have custody of the children who go there, and looked at a nursing home where residents are older people with individual needs, who have lived different lives and who have different perceptions of how they want to live the rest of their lives. It's the craftsman, it's the baker, it's the academic, it's the chief doctor, and it's the one who thinks that jazz is cozy, and whoever wants to hear a little more Birthe Kjær and what else it could be. That is why it is also important to me that the individual citizen in a nursing home is seen and that it is the individual citizen's own needs that are being met and that it is not such a misguided collective effort that must be drawn down on all the elderly, because it is simply not suitable for a nursing home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122651	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122653	SF's argument simply makes no sense, for each of the representatives will, for example, raise their concerns and pass them on. Now there are also many elderly people with dementia around these nursing homes, for whom it would also make very good sense to listen to their relatives. But I would really like to ask SF something else if we walk away from this, because I just don't think that SF's argument holds water. SF talks about this with more people, so I understand from the Socialist People's Party that they really just think that the solution is that there could be more people who watched Else join in this swing, instead of ensuring that you were actually stopped providing proper care for the elderly for those who helped build up our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122734	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122735	I am sure that if it is the case that citizens have some permanent staff around them, then you also create the good relationship that makes it possible to provide decent care for the elderly and develops a bad culture, it is the responsibility of management to take care of it. I do not think there is anything paradoxical about denying that a board member should speak up for my old father. Of course, I'm the one who's gonna talk to my old man if my dad thinks he needs my help with that. If he can do it himself, he must do it himself; if he needs my help, I must do it, but it should not be a random board member who should be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122820	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur, so we will move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422122842	Thank you. This is one of the motions for resolutions which we are tempted to vote in favour of as a matter of urgency. There are wordings about proximity, transparency and local dialogue, and these are values that sound good in a radical way. However, when we cannot support the specific proposal, it is because the good values here are actually wrapped in an inflexible demand that all nursing homes should have a board without exception. And even if the proposers in the proposal point out that they believe that the proposal is economically neutral, there may be doubts about that, at least there is a risk that it may be a bureaucraticly heavy round in some places. At a time when we are talking about debureaucratisation and freedom for the municipalities, a command to set up boards is turning the wrong way from our point of view. On the other hand, we would like it to be an offer so that the municipalities will have the opportunity to set up boards if they experience problems or wish to do so. We want to safeguard local autonomy and the right to local freedom of action. That is why we look forward, as the Minister, to seeing the experience of the experiments currently under way. Before anything else, it is about creating the good local dialogue to ensure trust between those involved. This kind of thing requires good management and well-trained employees, and that all men and women work for the cause. What is crucial is that there is an opportunity for dialogue on everyday life, on care and care in each nursing home. That is why we say no to the specific proposal, but hope to be able to gather together on a report that supports local flexibility for local authorities to be able to adapt as they see fit, including low boards, if they think it best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123011	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123014	Thank you for that, and also thank the rapporteur for proposing that a report be brought together. It is, of course, a possible way to go, and I shall not dwell here on whether we are going to do one thing or the other. This must be based on the dialogue in committee afterwards. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because the rapporteur has a concern that such a nursing home board will be a bureaucraticly heavy round, I think the rapporteur spoke of it as such. What is really being proposed is a board that looks like or leans on what we have in schools. Does the Radical Left also believe that the school boards are a bureaucratic trick?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123055	It may be, but it is a necessary process, because there are children who are not of the age to speak up for themselves. In a nursing home there are adult people who are of age and whose own home we are talking about here. I'm not against boards in nursing homes. I'm against our decision from Christiansborg. I would like to uphold municipal autonomy and the right to local freedom of action. That is my appeal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123118	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123119	The rapporteur does not at all recognise that in nursing homes today it is perhaps 80-90 per cent. by the residents demented or have a dementia diagnosis, and that a large part of them cannot actually take care of themselves? They have a guardian, just as we saw in TV 2's documentary, where Else Marie's guardian just stood up on her behalf. Does the rapporteur not realise that there is the problem that we have a very vulnerable and vulnerable group, which is clearly being run over over and over again, and that the people who should take care of them, namely their guardians, are doing so too? They're not being listened to. Then the rapporteur does not recognise that we need to do something other than what we have done so far, where we can see that many managements have failed, as we have, among other things. Did you see it in TV 2's documentary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123210	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123211	We must be careful that bad examples do not turn into bad legislation as well. I would be sorry to legislate on something that the municipalities can really best solve themselves, which is why I also allowed myself to quote from the Left's website about the living government of the people, that is to say, always to safeguard local self-government and the right to local freedom of action. I think that is where the decisions have to be taken. That is where life is lived, and if it is wrong with management, the municipal council has a duty to act. When it does not, there is an opportunity to complain, and we must, of course, stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123239	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123258	Thank you, President. I would like to start by saying that we in the Enhedslist are really positive about the whole intention of the proposal and also the whole idea of a kind of nursing home board where there is a greater degree of involvement of users and relatives and, above all, more access to information, which is also a very important element of what the proposers want to promote. The documentary also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, the care homes behind the facade, was a very shocking documentary. It was some of those pictures that stick to the retina of everyone who has seen them, and which are also some of them that I personally will never let go either, I think. Well, if you know an older person, it gets stuck. And for me it also goes into the series of pictures from a number of documentaries, we have seen in recent years about the state of our welfare society, too, along with the documentaries about the kindergartens that have had poor standards. I'm sure that those who have little kids like me who sit a few in the hall can remember that little girl sitting inside the wardrobe who gets I think it's 17 minutes of adult time in a day. This is the kind of thing that makes us have to react. And fortunately, it can be said that, as in this case, far from being normal, employees in the care of the elderly stand and treat the citizens whom their professionalism requires them to protect and care for as things. And that is not something that can be explained away with hurry, I will hurry to say. It is a rugged culture, which may well have a background in many years of busyness or poor professionalism, but it is not something that can be explained away. These are very special cases. There is no doubt that this hearing as a relative is extremely difficult in many places, and it is a big problem for a lot of nursing homes. That is why we very much welcome the intention of this proposal. We were also opposed when compulsory consumer and family councils were laid down back in 2010 to save some money. And so we are prepared to find a model too, so that we can restore it. We have a number of concerns about this specific proposal. One is about the explanatory statement of the proposers, which is a desire to promote what is called free choice. It is a fancy word for competition postponement and profit in the care of the elderly, and we strongly oppose this in the Enhedslisten. This is one of the things which, I believe, is a slippery slope and which has been shown to lead to poorer care for the elderly. We need to go the opposite way. The second concern we have is that, in addition to this additional element of competition exposure, we are also afraid that this proposal will convince people that this is how we solve the problems of care for the elderly. Too tight management and a very tight financial framework makes it possible for me to say almost impossible, but it is not quite right but very impossible to change very much for a board with relatives in a nursing home. It is a very narrow framework within which such a nursing home board will have to work. They will be subject to financial management and also to a number of bureaucratic rules that make it difficult to act very much. But having said that, more democracy and influence for residents and relatives is good. We agree with that, and we can certainly support it. If I had many more minutes, I would also say what I think more needs to be done, because much more needs to be done: a better framework, a solid economy, greater professionalism. One of the main demands of Enhedslisten in the last Finance Act was at least partly passed through; we ensured that we had 1,000 more employees in the care of the elderly and that they were skilled employees at the same time. We have ensured that some of the unemployed who have become unemployed because of the corona crisis can get 120 per cent. allowances if they are trained for social and health education. In this way we can also ensure a higher professionalism in the care of the elderly. They are both more hands, but they are also better hands. Then there is the strengthened supervision of the elderly that has been mentioned. And, by the way, before the bell rings out, I would like to give my support to minimum rights which have been on our agenda for many years. Specifically, we cannot support the resolution because it is not financed and the money would be taken from time to time by the residents. However, we would very much like to enter into a dialogue on how to create a model which is as unbureaucratic as possible and which ensures more influence for residents and citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123822	Thank you. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123825	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and also thank you for the fact that Enhedslisten is actually handing out a hand by asking if we can find a model. I will choose to take that down positively. We know that many free-care homes, for example. have boards where the management, the staff, the fire souls, the relatives and the residents have room just to mention some • have space. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not think that we can learn something from the way they have organised themselves? If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at such things as sick leave, when you look at many municipalities, there is a very large difference between the absence of sick in the municipal nursing homes and the home of free care. There are many places in the free-care homes a different working environment, and I am not saying that it is only because there are boards where relatives also have space, but it can matter what influence you have. Does the rapporteur think that we might be able to lean on that part of the care area and learn something from the care homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123934	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422123936	Now I am not going to be completely wise about how all nursing homes are arranged, but as I understand it, there are also many municipalities that have voluntarily established resident and family councils and are being used diligently. In addition, we recently set aside a great deal of money here. It was in the previous Finance Act to among other things. to set up experiments which may also mean that some kind of local council is being set up and that the residents and relatives are being involved more. So I would actually object to the premise that it should be necessary to learn from the home home for free care. But I fully agree that this is the way we should go. We must ensure both that there is enough time and that there is sufficient professionalism. I think that is some of the major areas. There is a lack of redress, which I did not have time to say in my speech, but there must be a right of appeal for relatives, also specifically about the level of care, and then there is a lack of involvement, no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124033	Thank you, Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124035	It's fine to make a small piece of paper, and it's with a little bit of emphasis on finance, so you can try it out in some places, and I also praised that in my rapporteur's speech. I also praised the municipality of Brønderslev for having taken up the thread. However, I do not think that the rapporteur really answers my question as to whether we can learn anything from the home home and from the way they have organised themselves. It's not that I have a preference myself. For me, it is not crucial whether you as an elderly person choose a community nursing home or a free-care home. What is important to me is that there is something to choose from and that you may also be able to play better with each other. That is just why I am asking the rapporteur about this. Now that we know that there are local boards in many free-care homes, where fire souls and, of course, relatives also have a place, could we not learn a little from this in the municipal sector if we now also have a strong municipal sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124129	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124130	But it also exists in the municipal sector that in some places you are good at it. I simply do not want to buy that premise. I agree that if only free-care homes were able to do so, it was the free-care homes that we should learn from. But I think we should learn from the nursing homes that are able to involve the relatives more and better. Moreover, I think it is extremely important that we set the individual nursing home much more free, in terms of how they will involve the daily lives of residents and being able to take account of the residents who are in the specific nursing home. Their health situation, their special wishes and needs obviously involve, especially because, as Mrs Jane Heitmann pointed out earlier, so many people have dementia that we must be better able to involve relatives too, and they must also have more to say. So I'm open to the dialogue. This is going to be a no to the resolution because it is simply not funded and therefore time would go away from the elderly, but the intention is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124231	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. It is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124303	Thank you. Thank you to the Left, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance for having tabled this motion for a resolution which gives us the opportunity to have a good and important debate in the Chamber today. Although I have the feeling that the many listeners in the gallery may be a little more waiting for a case that comes on a little later in the day, it is nice to see that you have followed our debate here about boards in nursing homes. The fact that the Conservative People's Party is not a co-sponsor here is really just an expression of the fact that we just needed to discuss the proposal once more in our parliamentary group, but we fully support it and think it is a very good proposal that lies here. So thank you to the parties that have put it forward. As the text also says, it is, after all, an end to the terrible documentary which many others have also mentioned in the Chamber today and which has made such an impression on all of us. From my point of view and from my party's point of view, there is no doubt that what you see in that documentary is an expression of a really, really bad culture. This is not an expression of the lack of money, but it is an expression of the loss of some of the basic humanity in our dealings with each other, in that it has all been professionalised. We believe that a quite important tool to get rid of it is to strengthen local management, and it is obvious that making local boards at the nursing homes can help keep the focus on culture by keeping management responsible. That is what is needed in the end. We don't think that's all it takes. We want to help change this, so that social and health workers are also covered by this licensing law, so that they can be deprived of their authorisation. It does not necessarily have to be difficult to get, but it must be possible to leave if there are cases that justify it. As Mrs Jane Heitmann also mentioned a short time ago, there are many places where you have these boards at home today, and you can see that it works very well. Was it a mistake to make that decision in 2010 in relation to these family and user boards? I don't know. I want to be completely open and say that it may well be that it was. That was before I became involved in politics myself. I do not know the whole history behind it, but nevertheless it is necessary that we strengthen that link in our nursing home. Then it may be that we have to say about our parents that we do not have custody of them. On the other hand, we have adult parents, but nevertheless our commitment to them should be just as great as our commitment to our children. It has nothing to do with custody. It has something to do with the fact that as people we have the family at the heart of our lives, and it also entails responsibility. That is why we are very much in favour of this proposal, which we can also see that, for example, the Elders Case and Alzheimer's Association are positive about, and it is a couple of rather solid organisations to meet the support of. In practice, we have the opportunity to look at and tailor along the way. This is something of the beauty of the resolution, which is why I hope that as many people as possible will support it here in the further work. So thank you to the parties for having tabled the motion for a resolution, which we fully support in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124638	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124701	We all remember Else and Niels, Else, who shouted that it hurt, and who hung there and was humiliated by the staff at the nursing home in Aarhus where she lived, and Niels, who for hours walked around with stool in the diaper, and who didn't get help, although he obviously asked for it, and the examples are many. I myself met Jennie and her mother, who both saw that Jennie's grandmother, who is an older woman with dementia, did not get help eating, and who actually weighed only 32 kg when I visited them. Therefore, the entire area of the elderly must in a completely different direction, with more freedom and more free choice. This is what New Citizens want for older Danes. The money must follow the individual elderly so that they or they, in consultation with their relatives, can choose and choose from. It is important in all aspects of life that you can actively vote with your feet and choose good offers and bad ones from. Far more free-care homes must ensure that you can really choose an alternative to the municipal, and all offers must compete on equal terms to be the best offer, because it is only healthy for the quality and for those who have to use these offers, namely the elderly. With boards at the individual nursing homes, we take a step in the right direction. In New Citizens, however, we do not want the members of the council to be part of the board, but with a board of directors, for example, consisting of relatives and management at the nursing homes, there is better opportunity to ensure that cases such as those we saw with Else and Niels do not happen. There, unfortunately, many requests from relatives were ignored, there was no listening, and we have to change that. This is a small step in the right direction, but we need a completely new direction in the area of the elderly. We must ensure more freedom and more free elections. We owe this to all the elderly who have contributed and built up our society, because they deserve only the very best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124920	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422124939	Thank you for the floor. One of the things I appreciate most about Denmark is that we have so many social institutions, which are called something where the term popular or otherwise is included. You can think of the public libraries, you can think of the public church, you can think of the primary school, and when you stand here on the platform, you must of course also think of the Folketing, where we are doing our work right now. In the 1800s and 1900s, where these institutions got their names, it meant that people were put in front of the institution's name, that it was for everyone, that in principle everyone was welcome and that no distinction was made between people. In our day, you would say something that doesn't sound nearly as good; you would use the term inclusion. But that was really what was meant in the old days; the popular institutions did not sort out in their clientele, and if you were a citizen of the country, they stood open. And in this popular tradition, you also have a decentralized and local administration. This has been done with the church councils, which help to make the church Denmark's largest grassroots organization, and with the primary school, which is also managed in a decentralised manner, although there have been many attacks on decentralizism and attempts to create central administration. That is why I think it is only natural that we should make nursing homes into foster homes according to an old Danish tradition and custom and ensure that they have a local and decentralised administration and that we ensure that everyday life is, to the greatest extent possible, a reflection of the wishes of the residents and not a reflection of the needs of the central administration and desires, or perhaps just a reflection of indifference and incompetence, of which we have also seen examples. So with this proposal, we make the nursing homes more popular after old Danish model, and that is why we naturally support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125207	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion that is needed, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125227	Thank you for that, President. On behalf of the Liberal Alliance, the New Citizens' Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left, I would like to thank my colleagues in this Chamber for a very committed, very vivid and very important debate on how we can restore dignity, care and empathy in the care of the elderly. I can hear from the statements here that we are far from agreeing on how we achieve the objective of getting both care and dignity back in the care of the elderly, but I am extremely pleased with the comments and comments that have been made in this debate and I look forward to the further examination of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125311	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125325	The debate is open. Secretary of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125345	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here today is about requiring the government to increase the defence budget to 2%. bnp by 2024 at the latest. The security situation has certainly not improved since the defence settlement was concluded in 2018. We are experiencing new breaks in many ways. It is clear when we look towards the Arctic and the North Atlantic, and it is even clearer when we look towards Ukraine, where we witness the greatest strength building since Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014. Massive Russian forces are currently deployed on the Crimean Peninsula, along Ukraine's northeastern borders and in the Black Sea. Looking further southwards to North Africa and the Middle East, terrorism, militant Islamism, fragile states and migration remain a major and serious challenge that requires our presence. Nor should we forget climate change, which has major security implications both at home and abroad. In addition, technological developments create opportunities but also new challenges: daily cyberattacks, hacking, impact campaigns, artificial intelligence and threats to the satellite connections that are crucial for our daily lives in such a digitalised and open society as the Danish one. And most recently, the coronapandemic has shown how sudden and surprising our society can be put under serious pressure. The security policy situation is thus rapidly evolving and has direct consequences for Denmark. The demands for Danish defence are increasing, and that is precisely why we have just reached an agreement on the Arctic Capacity Package, and that is why we are working to strengthen the cyber area, to name but two examples. Changing governments have been working on the Wales objectives as a prerequisite since 2014. That is necessary, and the government stands by it. The Wales objectives provide that we stop the decline in our defence spending, increase the cost of our defence and move towards the 2%. We are fully engaged in this so much that we actually spend the fourth most money on defence among our allies when the defence costs are measured per year. citizen. The Wales objectives are also about running, and we do so, even when it is difficult. We are at the top of NATO when we look at the number of soldiers that can be deployed and when it comes to deploying our forces into operations. We are among the most effective when it comes to transforming our defence spending into forces that can be used in operations and missions. We must therefore continue to invest wisely and in the right capacities. It requires analysis and well-thought-out purchases. The Government has therefore initiated an analysis of the security policy challenges facing Denmark and its consequences for the defence. I have no doubt that it will require more of the defense. The government is fully behind the Wales objective and I do not expect us to spend less money on defence. The Ministry of Defence's Procurement and Procurement Board is also already in the process of purchasing. They are in the process of acquiring all the equipment that was decided in the current defence agreement. And they are about to start acquiring capacities for another 1.5 billion. kr. to the Arctic Capacity Package. This will require a great deal of effort in the whole area of the ministers, so that we ensure that we invest the funds properly and it takes time. I agree with those parts of the resolution which deal with the importance of NATO, the anchoring of the United States in the alliance, and the threats in our neighbourhood, as Europe must take greater responsibility for our own security. We are already doing this with the forces of high preparedness and forces in the Baltics, in Iraq, in West Africa, in Afghanistan and in many other places. We should therefore not forget who ultimately defends our values: they are our soldiers and our veterans. We must not forget them in this debate. That is why I would also like to thank them for the work that has been and will still be crucial to Denmark's security. Normally we have a principle here in the Folketing that funding should be indicated in motions for resolutions. That is not the case here. And although a large part of the House agrees that more money needs to be spent on defence, we are talking here, after all, about 17 billion. kr. a year from 2024. It is crucial that we are fully in the process of achieving the Wales objectives. We are spending more money, we are fulfilling new capabilities in defence, and we must continue to do so. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125847	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125850	Thank you very much to the Minister for the speech. Does the Minister believe that Denmark is currently able to defend itself satisfactorily in the situation we are in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422125902-2	I believe we have a strong and good defence, but Denmark is also part of the NATO alliance, and that means that if Denmark is challenged, we will also receive help from our NATO allies. That is precisely what is involved in being part of an alliance. It is an insurance policy where we contribute, and we also contribute in other countries, we help and support other countries, but of course we also expect help if Denmark is in trouble. I would also like to say that Denmark is already under attack today. In cyberspace we are attacked or tried on a daily basis, and we must not forget that is also part of our defences. That is why it is so important for us to strengthen our cyber protection, our cybersecurity, and I will join with the conciliation circle in discussing and highlighting this in the coming time, because this is probably the place where the risk is greatest and the threats are already affecting today: it is in the cyber area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130003	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130005	Now Denmark has received quite strong criticism from NATO for its lack of defence capacity. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130019	Thank you. Well, it is not surprising to me that NATO has some desires for Danish defence, and in this way NATO is also a political organisation that makes some requests to the countries. I think it is essential that we also have a Danish Defence Command which provides wishes and guidelines and military professional advice. And that is what they did when we reached the last conciliation, where we chose some other things than exactly what NATO pointed out. It was because we listened to the Danish Military Counselling and I think we should do the same in the future. That does not change the fact that there are some things that we have a lot of work to do and that NATO is pointing out. There are other things about which we are in dialogue with NATO and which we do not have and where we think it might make more sense that, as a small country, we have some other capabilities. But, of course, we are going to expand our defences, but it must also be sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130117	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130119	Thank you to the Minister for a very clear and clear speech and also for the support for our membership of NATO. I would like to ask the Minister when the Minister expects us to reach 2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130136	I have an expectation that we were working towards the 2% we have promised. I do not want to put on a precise date, because it also depends on when the Danish defence, the Danish defence command, is able to deliver the things that need to be purchased and implemented for the money that will need to be spent to strengthen security in the coming years. So I don't want to put on a date, but with the threat picture we have today, I find it very difficult to see that we are going to spend less money. And, as I said, the objective of Wales, and thus of strengthening our defence, is the prerequisite for a future settlement. But it must be negotiated, and I hope that the Left will be involved in those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130222	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130224	I can guarantee that we will. But I would still like the Minister to give a clear signal, so one thing is, when do we reach the 2%, but is the Minister prepared and is the government prepared for us to spend more money in the next period than we do in this period?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130241	Well, with the threat picture that we are seeing today, I certainly have no expectation that we will spend less money. And, as I also said, we are working towards the Wales objective, and that is, of course, spending more money on our defences in the future. I also believe that this is the right thing to do with the threat picture that we see. However, this must be based on a specific discussion. Right now, a security policy work has been undertaken to identify the threats that exist and, on that basis, the various authorities in the Ministry of Defence must, of course, point out what the capabilities will be. And I believe that this should be the starting point for a forthcoming conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130321	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130324	Thank you so much. I do not know whether the Minister remembers the old great strategists in the field of social democracy, I do. I'm afraid I'm burdened with my age. We had many years when the Left and the Socialists agreed that it was very good to keep to a ratio between development aid and defence of 50-50. Since 2000, development aid has systematically decreased and defence expenditure has systematically increased. What does the Minister think about this development, that is to say, the failure of the great strategists who had little knowledge of what development aid was and how to create a peaceful and better world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130410-2	I have little surprising respect for the great socialist strategists and have grown up with them as bedtime reading. But the reality is also different today than it was when they wrote their great visions. The terrorist threat is a very good example of that. It could not be imagined to exist at all, as it does today, when they made their thoughts and reflections. However, I believe that, and I think that is also important to say that it is always crucial that there is a humanitarian effort, a stabilisation work when we send in military contributions, and that is why the area of the Ministry of Defence also has a great deal of stabilisation work, which is crucially accompanying our military efforts. I think it goes hand in hand. What the distribution is, yes, in the region for which I am the minister, must respond to the challenges that we see, and there we see just enemies who are capable of something quite different today than they were years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130517	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130519	Now, of course, I expect me to support a government that has an overall view of these things and that knows that development aid actually creates more peace than defence. That is why I would like to say that one third of development aid and two thirds in defence are wrong developments. You can change it in two ways. You can cut development aid and increase military spending or, if you want to live with 50-50, you can just let development aid increase at the same time. If you believe it. However, I am beginning to wonder whether the Socialists believe in the peace-promoting effect of development aid at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130559	I can assure the questioner that I firmly believe and believe that stabilisation work is essential and must be seen in a whole with military efforts as well. But it is not the case that the hacker who sits and attacks Denmark with high-tech instruments disappears just because we invest in more development aid, or that the terrorist who wants to destroy the foundations of our society and create uncertainty and insecurity goes away, even if we do projects around the world. That is what I, as a minister, am responsible for, namely that we can deal with the threats that exist against Denmark and that are around the world, so that we can run for it, so that in many communities too, we can contribute to the failure of the enemies who will do everything in the world to prevent relief and development coming to small communities. In this way military and development go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130705	Thank you! Once the President has stood up, it is because the speaking time has been long exceeded and the President was even extremely patient. But thank you for noticing, after all. The next brief remark is from Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130718	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. After all, it is no secret that there is a relatively broad definition by NATO of what can be contained in the 2%. What does the Minister see, if we look at the future in such a way, that it is going to be spent every year? After all, the Minister was talking about 17 billion. kr. Before. Now we have any idea what the real figure that is needed on the minister's order is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130748	Right now, a major analysis has been undertaken to identify precisely the threats that we see around the world, and thus what we need to address. I think that is the first step in that we can then talk about what these capacities are and what resources are needed to address the challenges. And I think that this is the right way to do it, namely to start by pointing out the threats; why is it that we have a defence? Yes, it is because there are some threats around the world that need to be dealt with. And then we look at capabilities, and that is something we have to do in a political agreement. But I do not think that I am revealing too much when I say that the Arctic is one of the areas that I believe we should pay particular attention to, even in the future and also in a forthcoming conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130837	No, I do not think the Minister reveals too much by saying that either. Will the Minister work to ensure that this very broad definition, in relation to what is to be included in the 2%, which is of course interpreted in very many different ways around the world, is narrowed into a common level, which one can then work from in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130858-2	Yes, I must be careful not to exceed my speaking time here, so that will be the short version. In other words, it is no secret that we as NATO Member States are very different in structure and that there is a very different degree of efficiency around the countries concerned. There are also various ways in which one has cut one's defense, so that there is something that counts with some places, but which does not do it elsewhere. I think we should be aware of this too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130926	The next brief remark is to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422130929	In his speech, the Minister himself said that it would be a fairly large grip on the pocket if you had to reach the 2%. Well, it'll be about 17 billion. kr. extra a year in 2024 and we'd probably have to find about 10-15 billion. kr. more, if we were to do it from now on. I'm just wondering. Is it really the policy of the Social Democratic Party and does the Minister think it is desirable that we should spend so much more money on defence? Is that responsible? And a little further to what Christian Juhl is asking, I would say that when you look at what is being used to prevent wars and conflicts, that is unfortunately not quite enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131013	I sincerely wish we didn't have to spend any more money on the defense, and why would I want that? Yes, because it would mean that the threats around the world had diminished. That's what we saw in the 1990s. There were not the same levels of tension around the world. We are just in a different situation today and we have a completely different level of threat. We have a greater complexity and some threats that also come much, much closer. That is why it is necessary to be able to address it, which means that we need to have a greater and stronger defence in the future. If development suddenly turns, so that it goes the other way, the situation is different, but unfortunately there is just nothing pointing or suggesting in the time we find ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131100	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131101	We are also on the back of a major health crisis, which also requires us to spend some money on our welfare. If I look out into the world, some of what I am really worried about, which one can see will destabilise the world even more in the coming years, climate change, which provides more refugees and which causes conflicts around land, country, migration, etc., creating much more war and conflict. This requires that we actually intervene. This is one of the major challenges now. I would like the government to proceed a little more aggressively to prevent this rather than to get to the rear and only pay attention to what it takes afterwards. Because it has to be said that our experience does not show that much larger military budgets lead to more peace and happiness, on the contrary, if things are to be put at the forefront in this way, and I think we should actually do so in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131148	That is always the dilemma in this debate. On the other hand, does the enemy also think that it is better to start investing the money spent on fighting each other in prevention measures, and so can we withdraw and not pay any attention to what the enemy wants? I do not think we can. Terrorists who will fight our values will still be there. They will try to harm our society, even though our priorities are different, and we must, of course, be able to stand up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131223	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. This is how the rapporteur can begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Jan Johansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131242	Thank you for that, President. This motion for a resolution, B 193, has been tabled by new citizens and it proposes that we increase the defence budget to 2%. of bnp before 2024. We fully agree that for Denmark, which is a small country in a large world, it is a very good idea to be a member of NATO. There are now 30 countries which are members of NATO; this applies to large and small countries which are helping to look after each other if anything should be done in relation to peace. It has also become much more topical to unite over the last few decades. The world has become more troubled and uncertain. We became a member in 1949 when NATO was founded, has been active all these years, and has kept our commitments well in cooperation with NATO. We agree that the world in which we live now has become more uncertain. It does not provide the same security with regard to world peace. We are in the process of implementing a defence settlement that is widely agreed on where we increase defence spending and acquire modern material. With the current conciliation, we are increasing the defence budget by 4.9 billion. kr. from 2017-2023 and by 1,5 billion. kr. further with the Additional Agreement on the Arctic. Social democracy stands by the agreement that the Wales objectives are the starting point for the next defence debate from 2024. This means that we must work together towards an increase to 2%. of bnp. We are well on our way to that, and with the more uncertain world we are looking at, we find it hard to imagine that we are going to spend less money on defence. The questions of how many more billions we need and what materials are involved will form part of the work that lies ahead of us in the conciliation circle in connection with the defence settlement. I would very much like to congratulate the Danish defense... which applies throughout the organisation from high to low... for the work they do. In fact, we are at the top of NATO, both in terms of the number of our soldiers who can move quickly with the right weapons and in terms of deploying our forces into operations. Actually, I think we should be very proud of that. In Denmark, we also have the lead when it comes to using our defence costs wisely and effectively. We get a lot of money. Of course, we must continue to invest wisely in the right materials and the right competences in the future. It is a great and important work which, of course, takes its time. The proposal is based on bnp, compared to the fact that we do not spend enough on defense. I ask myself the question: is this the right way to figure it out? Because we're looking at how much money is spent per. We are no longer a member of NATO, but a citizen of the defence of NATO countries. 4 on the list, and we bring the efficiency that we perform, yes, then we're at the top of the list. Denmark's responsibility for NATO's cooperation is much more and more than the 2%. It is about doing what is required and using our resources properly; it is our strategy. For that reason, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131642	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131650	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Does the rapporteur not think that we should live up to the 2% that we have committed ourselves to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131700	Thank you. I think I have said in my speech that we are heading towards the Wales Agreement, and we have started the conciliation that is already in place. And then the negotiations for 2024 on the new defence settlement must show which way we are going. However, I must also say that the efficiency we have all the places we are stationed and where we show the Danish flag is very good, and we have some effective soldiers. So when we measure how much money we need, it goes on what we do and how effective we really are and what it really is, we don't always do so much on the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131737	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131738	I think that was a slightly unclear answer to the question of whether the rapporteur thinks that we should live up to the commitment we have made on the 2%. Then I would like to ask you about the criticism that has come from NATO. How does the rapporteur feel about this? Does the rapporteur think it is satisfactory that we are getting such a harsh criticism from NATO for our lack of defence capacity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131801	Thank you. Well, I mean, as I also said in my speech, we are very effective. And I think it's calculated wrong when you figure it out from bnp. I believe that what we are giving is very effective in relation to what many other countries are doing. I think we need to measure what we are actually doing and where we operate around the world. And there I think that Denmark, even though we are a small country, is very good with many places, and we are making a huge effort. It should be measured in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131838	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131840	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'd like to ask you a question about another model. Is this something the government and the Social Democrats intend to address in the negotiations that are in NATO? In other words, the rapporteur says here that the model is wrong. It will be a bit of news here today if it is the case that the government will work for us to have a completely different model than the one that is now, with a 1% contribution. of bnp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131907-2	The comments I made about the way in which it is calculated are my assessment of the situation. I haven't talked to the government about that. But I still believe that the way it is done, i.e. that it is bnp that decides how much we really have to pay, but not how much we do and what we do, is a wrong way of looking at it. You could also say that not even the one and a half billion people in the Arctic have been counted into this, and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131939	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131939-2	Thank you. Well, if that's a problem, why don't you work to change it? Well, I think it's a little a free round, sir. rapporteur, to say that the model is wrong, without even looking at some part of it, saying that you will actually change the model.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422131955-2	Now it probably doesn't do so much that I little rapporteur is standing up here telling me what I think about those things down in NATO. But I just want to say that I think it is unfair that we are being measured at bnp and that we cannot get the Arctic capacities in. So I really think we should try to look at what we do and not always how much money we actually spend and how sensible we spend it. We are currently in the NATO superliga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132021	There is one more brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Beazley's report. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132026	That is because I think the Minister is a little too eager to focus on his isolated task as Minister for Defence, and then it could be that the rapporteur had a slightly broader view. Could we make an agreement that if defence expenditure increases, development aid also increases, just as Christian Kelm-Hansen, Svend Auken and others have fought for, rather than the opposite, namely that we steal money from development aid and cut it down and throw it into the defence budget? It is not a wonderful sight to see from a party that once said: Break the saber! Break the crown! It was when it was thought that one should have a demilitarised society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132112	I think that the things that Mr. Christian Juhl mentions is important, but so is the defense. It is also very important with the uncertain world we are living in now. So I think that both are very important and I think that this is something that should be discussed with the broad majority of the Folketing and with the entire Folketing. Sir. Christian Juhl has raised the issue, and that is what the Folketing will have to discuss in the future if there is to be the weighting that Mr. Christian Juhl suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132141	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132142	Could we then make a prior agreement that every year in the Finance Act we allocated at least the same amount of development aid that we give to the defence? Then we have started it instead of saying that we can discuss it. Then there would be some concrete content to it. The two of us could make the agreement that this is what we are doing in the future, and then the Minister must try to conform to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132206-2	I can only answer what I said before, namely that this is something that the whole parliament should discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132214	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for just preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is on the verge of leaping forward, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132239	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the new citizens for having tabled this motion for a resolution. In fact, I think it is a good motion for a resolution. This helps to put pressure on us to get up to 2%. But it is also clear that there is also funding. It's a bill of the order of 17 billion. kr., and the money may not be done away from one day to the next. But we have to go up to 2%, and we have to work towards the 2%, and we have to do so in the negotiations that are coming, about a future defence settlement, where I also hope that New Citizens will take responsibility and help ensure the future of Danish defence. We will have that debate in the coming years, and then we will have to see when we will manage to reach the 2%. But in the case of the Left, it is clearly an intention that we should reach 2%. We have to do so in a way that the defence is also able to spend the money, because it is also one of the challenges if you get so much money from one day to the next. We have seen with the current conciliation how there can sometimes be challenges in this context. There we need to have a guarantee that it will also be possible to handle and use in a sensible way the influx of extra money for defence. But we agree with the New Citizen in intention. We're just worried about how right here and now we're gonna find that funding of 17 billion. This is why we are referring this proposal to the conciliation negotiations on a future defence settlement. Against this backdrop, we refuse to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution at this stage, but I would like to thank the new citizens, because this is helping to put massive pressure on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132432	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a number of brief comments. First of all, sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132438	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and, at least, his sympathy with the intention of our proposal. Hopefully, after the next parliamentary elections, we will have a change of government. Does the rapporteur agree, then, that it must be a bourgeois priority for us to honour our commitments in NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132457	Thank you. It is a clear bourgeois priority, regardless of whether we will have a new government after a forthcoming election. It is the voters who have to decide. I would also like to say that it is a clear case for the Left and also broad for the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party and also New Citizens, and I think it is very good if we can jointly put civil pressure on the government to ensure that more money is spent on the Defence and that we reach the 2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132528	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132529	Thank you very much for your answer. In Altinget.dk on 18 January this year, the rapporteur has said: it is the Left's ambition that Denmark increases our defence budget, and until then the Left will be open to discuss whether we can do more here and now. So my question to the rapporteur is: what is the rapporteur going to do here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132550	After all, in the parties that have reached a settlement, we have an ongoing discussion with the Minister on how we deal with this task. We have, of course, reached an agreement on the Arctic area not long ago, where 1.5 billion are being allocated. kr. At the same time, we are looking at what the threat picture looks like: Is there a need to invest even more? We will be positive and open to this if there is a political will to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132623	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132626	Thank you. Normally, when we discuss economics in the Parliamentary Chamber, the bourgeois say: are we now sure that we will get something for that money? And are we now sure that spending that money will benefit you? Otherwise, we should not spend taxpayers' money on that expense. Is the rapporteur sure that spending more money on the military benefits anything in world peace and in the development of the world? That's question one. Question two is: When in Danish history we have spent 2%. or more of our gross domestic product on defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132703	To the first question, the answer is clearly yes. I am convinced that there is a need to spend more money on the Danish defence. By the way, we share that view with the government. There is an international threat picture that means that we have a task to do. We have assignments in the Arctic we have to solve. We have tasks about cyber, we have tasks about terror. There will be a need for more money to be spent on defense in the future. How the budget has developed over the years I must say that we need to look at. I have not read that up for today's debate. I can just say that for us, it's not about looking back. For us, it is about looking forward, and when we look forward, we are going to increase the overall defence budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132750	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132750-2	If I had said this in an argument for an expense I would have liked through the Folketing, then any bourgeois politician would have said: yes, it is good that you think so, but can you argue a little bit for it? I would also like to make this the rapporteur of the Left on this issue. I believe that the argument that more weapons actually increase the risk of war and crisis is just as valid as the rapporteur's belief in the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132823	For us, this is about peace, security and stability, and Denmark's contribution to the stability of the world, our contribution to the size of our country and the international commitment we have made to NATO cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132842	The next brief remark by Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132846	Thank you. I note the intention in the rapporteur's speech to achieve the 2%, but also to make sure that the money can be spent with meaning in defence. And I'm very happy to hear that little reservation. The fact is that gross domestic product is increasing and increasing. So if you want to keep up with it and increase the share, that's a lot of money. We are now talking about 17 billion. kr., but no one knows if it is more when it comes to the matter in 2027 and 2028 and 2030. So there is well in what the rapporteur of the Left says here that if we cannot spend the money sensibly then if they are not needed in the Danish defence, so to speak, it would also be a bit crazy to drop the money without being able to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132938	It is absolutely crucial for us that the money that we put aside should be used wisely. Anything else is gonna be crazy. After all, we must not just pour money into defence to pour money into the budget; we must do so because we also find a sensible use for the money we spend in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132955	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422132956	It also follows that if we cannot find a sensible use for all the money, it is not a hundred per cent certain that we reach the 2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133006-2	For us, it is a bottom-up task, partly to reach the 2% and partly to ensure that we can spend the money in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133014	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133018	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur has any other good ideas than the measuring stick that is measured on the basis of bnp. Does the rapporteur think that it is okay to be measured on this when we are much more effective? And if we need 2%. More and we cannot use the money for anything sensible, is it sensible to be measured in this way? Isn't there any other way to be measured?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133049	Thank you, sir. Jan Johansen. I'm sure you could find other ways to measure it. I was just asking Mr. Simpson. Jan Johansen just before, whether he had other good ideas or wanted to bring something forward internationally in terms of finding a different yardstick. That is the yardstick used, and we cannot see that there are any alternatives to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133107	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133109	Well, you could work on it. You could start thinking differently from what you have done so far. Because you can bet that you are as effective in the defence as Denmark is that you do not have to spend the money. That would be great. Then there is no need to spend the money there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133130	I find it hard to see what an alternative model is. I asked about it just now, that is, about Mr. Jan Johansen and the Social Democrats had an alternative model, and I didn't hear that there was. And I am delighted that we have a high price in Denmark. This is good for our overall welfare, and it is also good for our opportunities in general to contribute, including in terms of defence. And I also welcome the fact that we have an effective defence in Denmark. That's really good. When Danish soldiers are deployed, there is great respect for them because they are really, really capable and really, really effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133200	Thank you, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. And I would ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur. Thank you very much. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133226	Thank you very much. I thank New Citizens for bringing this proposal forward, and we very, very much welcome it. After all, we are about to negotiate a new defence settlement, and, as you know, a defence settlement is the framework for the work of the defence, the preparedness and the Home Guard, but that is just as important a power arrow for where we want to go with the armed forces of the country, a vision and a direction. What are we gonna do with that? That is why we in the Danish People's Party demand a fundamentally new approach to the purpose of the Danish defence towards the next defence settlement. We want an approach in which the fighting force of defence is not determined by the Ministry of Finance, which indicates the financial framework for defence, but where instead we ask ourselves a fundamental question about what should be the primary task of defence: how long should Danish forces be able to defend the country independently against an enemy attack until our NATO allies come to our aid? In this way, we would like to have the order of the day in the settlement turned upside-down, where the defense today must confine itself to defining and solving its tasks within the financial framework assigned to the defence before looking at what tasks the defence should perform. In the Danish People's Party and I have written a chronicle about this in Politiken a few days ago we think that Danish forces should be able to defend Denmark for at least 14 days until our allies can come to our aid. Then we will have to calculate how many soldiers and how much material it takes to achieve that ambition. The Danish defence, as it looks today, has some of the world's best soldiers. Our soldiers have done a good job in operations around the world, including, for example, the fight against Islamists in Iraq and Afghanistan, and contribute in a distinguished way to NATO's reinforced presence to the east with the deployment of planes as well as soldiers in the Baltic. The Danish soldiers always carry out exemplary tasks. But the question is whether the defense will be put to the right tasks. Every defence's most important task should be the defence of the homeland. As far as Denmark is concerned, this means that we should be able to contribute crediblely to the defence of Denmark together with our allies. The defence cannot do that today, and certainly not independently, in the 14 days that we in the Danish People's Party want the defence to be able to hold an intrusive enemy rod. The defense is short and good, soldiers, resources and more material. In the Danish People's Party we therefore want a significant shift in defence policy, from an expedition defence to territorial defence, which can also contribute to a real defence of Denmark and the Commonwealth within the framework of NATO. It is worth considering whether such a significant change in defence, as we are proposing here, should begin with a proper defence commission, as has been done with previous marked changes in Danish defence policy, where I myself took part last time, moreover, under Mr Beazley's name. The leadership of Hans Hækkerup. This in itself is not decisive for the Danish People's Party. For us, on the other hand, it is heartblood that the defence once again achieves a size and a robustness that enables it to contribute to a credible defence of Denmark and the kingdom at all. And then, when we in the conciliation circle have got hold of what is needed by equipment and personnel, we can set the price. It may well be a different price than the 2.4 billion. kr. But I think it is essential that we get that change in, and that is what we are proposing. As I said, I would like to thank the new citizens for tabling the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133719	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I very much agree with the rapporteur's wish to focus on the defence of Denmark's territory and the kingdom. Now the rapporteur wants an explanation to be made before you find out how much money you need, but what is the rapporteur's expectation that we should increase the cost of defence in relation to what we are spending today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133745	Yes, I think that is quite implicit in my speech, so we have to. We got it closed by 1.5 billion. kr. recently in connection with Arctic, where we were also involved. It was a really good investment, and it was good that it happened. But if it is that more is needed, then we have to do it. What bothers me is that, in a way, we have for a long time had such an expedition defence in the expectation that some people would come and rescue us if it affected the Danish territory or the kingdom's territory at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133820	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133822	Thank you. The rapporteur then expects expenditure to increase. What does the rapporteur think about the 2%?? Does that sound like a realistic figure, or do you need to be higher than that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133836	I think that sounds like a very, very fine figure. This is, of course, not a doubling, but at least we are going to pay something similar to 40 billion. kr. every year. This isn't a one-night stand. It's something that has to happen year after year if you keep it there. Then it is a little regrettable if Denmark gets richer, because then we will pay more. Perhaps that is what can be said to be a bad idea in relation to the way in which it was worked out, as there was a debate about before. I agree with that, in fact, that works artificially. But that is now the opportunity we have and we are following it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133911	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422133933	SF is in favour of Denmark having a defence and we are in favour of Denmark's membership of NATO. We must be able to defend our sovereignty and respond to any threats that may be against us. This requires us to soberly identify the threats and adapt our military efforts to it. New threats in the form of cyber war, misinformation and attempts to destabilize can then, in turn, not be overcome with fighter planes and more soldiers. Cyber war will fill much more in the future and both Russia and China are very active, but the defence agreement continues to give priority to traditional areas such as the army and the Navy. With good reason, we are watching Russia's armaments and aggressive foreign policy, but militarily they are far too weak to actually threaten NATO, which is of course much stronger. It actually borders on manipulation when Russia is used as an argument for arming NATO. The challenges are particularly facing neighbouring countries, and it is ominous at the moment to follow Russia's action towards Ukraine. It is good that NATO, with Danish participation, has forces that will defend the Baltic; it is an absolutely necessary signal to Vladimir Putin. In 2018, one of the most expensive defence reconciliations was made in recent Danish history, and already a year later, after pressure from Donald Trump, it was further increased. The money is largely spent on arms and standing armies rather than the more real security threats that a high-tech society like the Danish will face in the future. That is why we do not need more money, but a different priority. The order must be: the assessment of the threats, the assessment of the response to be given and the means by which, the assessment of whether the money we want to allocate can be translated rationally into defence, and then an assessment of the amount. It makes no sense to link armaments to the size of gross domestic product. After all, the threats to Denmark and NATO are neither greater nor less, depending on the state of the economy. 2020 was a year that made the world more insecure. Denmark had a 3% drop in GDP, and that means, according to the 2-percent logic, it has to mean less money for the defence. The other periods we will be able to see a clear increase in bnp, but in a safer world. Does that mean that, in this situation, we are insisting on arming up? It doesn't make any sense. When you measure the military strength of a country, the effect is more important than how much you feed the machine. Fortunately, Denmark is in the low end when it comes to military expenditure, but at the same time Denmark is one of the most efficient and robust members of NATO. After all, you can calculate expenses in many ways, and if you measure our costs in relation to our population, Denmark is actually suddenly at the top. In 2014, the NATO countries agreed at a meeting in Wales on a target to use at least 2%. of the military, and according to a reply from the Minister of Finance, this will mean that Denmark will need between 17 and 20 billion. kr. extra a year. However, the SF will not cut back on the elderly, primary school or health care to find the huge amount of money, and in this respect it is interesting that this resolution comes from New Citizens, whose policy is otherwise to save 80 billion. kr. in the public sector and tax relief for 100 billion. kr. like this, within whole shoe lengths. The United States claims that the objective is a concrete commitment, but that is precisely an objective, a declaration of intent. And if they cared so much about the issue of objectives, where is the United States' willingness to live up to the UN's development aid objective? To those who think that objectives are important and that the size of the bnp is important, I would just like to remind you of the UN's objective of providing 0.7 per cent. EC 7/8-1984, point 2.1.109. OJ C 30, 30.2.1984; Bull. Here, Denmark is one of the few countries which meets the objective and, as I recall just now, it is only followed by the UK, Norway, Sweden and Luxembourg. It is much more important to focus on combating global inequality, which often leads to wars, rather than buying more missiles and fighter planes to start them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134417	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134419	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that Denmark is capable of defending itself satisfactorily at this stage?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134425	The rapporteur. No. I'm sorry! I'll give you a hand, sir. Peter Seier Christensen's opportunity to finish his first brief remark. I got to interrupt too fast. Here you go for the first brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134437	Okay. Well, my question to the rapporteur was whether the rapporteur believes that Denmark is able to defend itself satisfactorily at this stage, of course, in cooperation with our NATO partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134448	It's again one of those out there in the air-like question: Are we able to defend ourselves? In relation to what? I ask. It is a question of identifying the threat picture, so my answer will be that it simply requires that Mr. Peter Seier Christensen focuses on the threat we face. I do not think we are sufficiently strong today to defend ourselves against cyber attacks, misinformation and destabilisation. Actually, I don't think we're ready for that. In fact, I believe that something more could be invested in this area. The answer is just not: more fighter planes or more missiles or more soldiers in the army. Otherwise, the answer in a short version: Nor does it make sense to talk about Denmark's ability to defend itself, separated from being a member of a NATO alliance, which I said in my introduction that SF is in favour of us being a part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134531	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134532	No, of course this must be done in cooperation with NATO, but we must also make our contribution. As I understand it, the rapporteur does not believe that we should increase our military spending. Is that correct? Does the rapporteur think that we should lower them in relation to what we are using today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134550	Well, that's the thing again about me being a little... hmm... disappointed in the debate. What we are talking about is something like whether we should raise or we should lower, instead of talking about what the threat is. In other words, we cannot talk about the amounts broken down, and therefore with the way in which I at least reason, the amount comes at the end of my list after the threats have been identified, after we have identified whether we can make a sensible use of the extra money at all. But it stands and falls with our membership of NATO. I do not think we should talk so much about the amounts. We need to talk more about changing and prioritising differently, so we address the real threat to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134621	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134625	Yes, when we made the final defence settlement, no one knew that Russia had changed its character in this way. We were, in fact, a kind of ally with Russia. That is the problem. But in relation to that, sir. Karsten Hønge depicts it as if he is able to assess how the threat picture is, 5 years before we enter into the next defence settlement, I would say that I don't even think that any of our best military analysts dare to predict that. That is why we are very much in favour of a general defence. But is it even possible to assess the threat picture five years in the future in this strange world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134659	No. Well, sir. Søren Espersen is absolutely right in saying that it is not possible to evaluate the picture in this way five years before. But I also think that there are some things that are quite obvious. And that is the fact that Russia, which has an economy largely similar to that of Italy, has a worn-out military and their carriers must be dragged around with tugs. This is not a military threat to NATO; Russia is not a military threat to NATO. That is a rather objective assessment of it. So that's one point. That is why Russia's objective armament, which is also taking place, must not only be used, especially in the Arctic, with new aircraft bases on the islands up there. In fact, however, I think that the debate is being manipulated by bringing Russia forward, in that it should justify increasing our defence budget by EUR 17-20 billion. kr. And I think we can maintain that in future there will be other things that matter to Denmark in relation to cyber war, destabilisation and misinformation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134801	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134803	But it is strange that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and Poland, and a whole lot of other former members of the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet system, have a completely different view than Mr. Karsten Hønge. Well, they probably know there's a threat they can assess. So do thousands of military analysts from a number of countries. So I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge in this case puffs himself up to having an expert knowledge that he really doesn't have and that none of us here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134839-2	No, I don't have to pretend to be a military expert all of a sudden. However, as I also said in my speech, I can see that Russia is and one does not need to be a military expert to see that it is obvious that Russia is threatening and intimidating Ukraine. It is obvious that it is a good idea for Denmark to contribute with NATO in sending forces to the Baltic to show some signals to Putin, as I also said. But that is one conclusion: it is not that Russia as such is a threat to NATO. I do not believe that any sober people will claim that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134914	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422134934	Thank you very much, President, and thank you to the new citizens for raising this debate, which is important and which I really think is important to take in good time before we start the next defence settlement. But let me start by saying that we cannot support the resolution, and there are three reasons for that. We do not share the view, which seems to be fairly broad here in the Folketing, that Denmark should have committed itself at 2%. I myself was Minister for Foreign Affairs when we signed the declaration in Wales. I negotiated the text myself. We spent a great deal of time on it, I should say, and the text that this declaration ended with, and which Denmark signed, contained, as far as the debate we have today is concerned, two things: we wrote and now it is going to be in English, but I hope that everyone can keep up with the fact that all members of NATO are going to move towards the 2% rate, that is, try to approach something similar to 2%. If you are dealing with diplomatic texts, that is not a very hard binding statement. On the other hand, what was binding was the second part, namely that all NATO countries had to reverse the trend, spending more money on defence rather than less money, which had been a trend for a long time. That is why we can vouch for Denmark to live up to the Wales objective; you just have to read what it says. That is one reason why we cannot support the proposal. The second reason is that, as several have said, this is a strange way of calculating Denmark's contribution. We have nothing to be ashamed of. Denmark is the country that delivers the fourth or fifth most in NATO per year. citizen. We have one of NATO's most effective defences, so the money we spend is spending significantly better than many other countries, and then we are even willing to actually contribute. We have nothing to be ashamed of, and neither should we. In addition, the price increases and increases, which is why the amount will continue indefinitely, and that leads me to my third argument in favour of voting no, and that is that Denmark should spend the money on defence that is needed. Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt mentioned this, and I fully agree. We need to spend the money that is needed, but it does not make sense that when Denmark becomes more effective in defence, it has no bearing on how much we should contribute. We could also just decide that the entire Danish defenses should sit and scratch their hair and eat Danish bread. Then it would be easier to reach the 2%, because then we would spend more money on nothing. That objective and measuring it in this way make no sense, and we must be allowed to insist on that, and that is why we did not want to commit ourselves more to 2%. of bnp. So, what does that mean for the future defence settlement? Indeed, I do share the view that there is a need to spend more money in Danish defence. I believe that we will see in the world we are looking into with a multipolar world order that the United States will not, no matter what we think of it, take on the role of the world police force and cannot take on it any longer, because such great powers have come into play out there and you have enough to watch and you expect Europe to take more care of its own neighbourhood in cooperation with NATO and the United States, but with a greater emphasis on that Europe will. I also think that the four years of Trump have shown that for political reasons, for its own sake, Europe should stand more on its own feet. So we go into the future defence agreement with an extremely realistic assessment that we will probably have to spend more money on Danish defence, but not with an objective to commit to an arbitrary 2-percent objective, to which Denmark, in our opinion, has not committed itself, but we tied ourselves to spending more money, and we would like to stand by that. And, by the way, there is the whole discussion about what to count on, what to spend the money on, and there I do not think we are done looking down in what can be counted with. Let me mention research, green research, with which other countries count, even if it may not be in the Ministry of Defence, but making Danish defence greener is something that both benefits our security in a greater perspective, but also benefits the operationality of defence if it is going to work in the right way. That is why the United States is one of them. Going ahead in that area. We see for ourselves that the Arctic must play a greater role, because Denmark can and must something unique, and I could go on like that. We look forward to these negotiations. We have a realistic entrance to them, but it won't be by 2%. by bnp as header from our side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135434	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135438	Thank you very much. I just want to say something about this: if we get richer and richer, we're going to pay more and more. That is also true, for example. The development aid rate, where we have a corresponding percentage, is 0.7 per cent. I would like the rapporteur to take a look at why this is a good idea, because the Radical Left will think so. With the second question I would like to ask, what is it, sir? Martin Lidegaard believes that Danish defence should be able to do so. I mean, how long are we supposed to be able to defend ourselves? That kind of thing was set up, even in relation to the speech I made. You set it up when we had a real cold war. Our defenses knew exactly how long it would be possible to hold the enemy pole before the replacement was due to come before the support was to come from NATO. Could the rapporteur imagine that we were looking at something similar, that is to say what we should be able to do and that we then assessed what we should pay for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135535	In other words, as the questioner's question suggests, we shall probably go back to the Viking Age to reach a time when Denmark was able to defend its territory on its own. It is only in a NATO context that it makes sense. I do not know whether it makes sense to postpone the same kind of thing, you might say wait-time criterion, because the point is that, as far as the defence of the whole of NATO is concerned, as far as Russia is concerned, and that is what we are talking about here for all practical purposes. It is Russia that might come under threat from NATO and from our own services, etc. that the threat to Denmark is very modest. So what everyone is looking at is the Baltic countries and how we should be able to contribute. And that makes sense at least, I think that we should help to make their safety great, because ultimately it will also be our own security. I do not think it can be compared with development aid. It is simply because the need to reduce the world's suffering, the flow of refugees and migration is enormous. The need is enormous and the need for more funds is enormous. I do not believe that Danish defence has an endless need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135643	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135646	This may happen, but I remember times when foreign aid suddenly increased by almost 1 billion. kr. because of our continued welfare, and I also wondered at that time, what if it went the other way? Then we should still hold on to the 0.7 percent.? I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Martin Lidegaard in that the way you fight it is not smart. But I think, as I believe, sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt said it: we don't have anything better, so we have to stick to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135721	You could, for example. calculate it per year. citizen. It could also be calculated on the basis of a different efficiency standard, etc. So I think we could actually work for that in NATO with like-minded countries. But let's just leave it alone. There is also the fundamental difference that development aid, as agreed by the United Nations, is an attempt to reduce the gap between the richest and the poorest and to reduce inequality in the world. There is of course the logic that the richer you stay in the bnp and that's how we measure it the more you can then contribute. I do not think that this is the best way to do it, but I do believe that it makes more sense in terms of development aid than it does in the military.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135802	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135805	Thank you. Now we are talking about development aid and defence expenditure, and that is where I have been very many times close to radical people, for example. in the UN League, in various peace groups, etc., where we have agreed with the politicians who up through the 1980s and 1990s until the year 2000 here in the Folketing said: the two things must go together, because defence and foreign policy are both about both legs; so both about what we prevent and make sure that people live well where they are, so that they do not want to escape, and so that they do not start fighting with each other, and then about a defence. There I understand that the Radical Left has gone a little further than that principle, or will the Radical Left help to restore it and then say: if we are to have more for the military, we also need more for development aid, as it is basically preventive work which is the most productive if we are to have a better world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135900	I do not at all disagree with any of the points that Mr. Christian Juhl is coming with us here. I could see very well that we had development aid up to 1%. and then maybe got 0.5%. additional to what could be called global common goods, i.e. the whole UN sustainability objective, etc., while the defence then stood at 1.5%, as it does today. That would suit me very, very well, and I think it would be the wisest thing to do, and then more money would come to the defense, because bnp the rise • it would come completely automatically. But I'm not sure I like any kind of automatics in this. In fact, I would like to see a targeted approach to the needs of solving them, but if you could get a majority of the people on that one, do not think the Radical Left would block it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135949	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422135949-2	Now I can hear that we are very close to each other in terms of the 1 plus 0.5%, and that is positive enough. So let us realize it and then assess the real military need, for I mean: The threat to Denmark has not increased; the threat has not increased. The Russians are no greater danger now than they did 30 years ago. But the threat has changed to other areas. And there I agree that old-fashioned soldiers in uniform may be a little outdated in relation to the threats we have now. That is why I think it is important that we carry out the task that is most important at the moment, namely preventive work before we start experimenting to find more money for traditional defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140037-2	Well, there I think the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left are more disagreeable. I mean, I agree with preventive work and I agree with development aid, but we think we need a strong Danish defence. And we believe it is in great national interest both to make a difference in the Arctic, also if what you want is peace and stability in the Arctic, or perhaps for this very reason it is important that Denmark itself takes responsibility for peace and stability and is not only dependent on, for example. The United States and NATO, just as I am convinced that we need stronger European defence and cooperation in this area. I know that we do not share opinions either, so we will probably not agree as much as we do on the first half.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140116	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140119	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. After all, the agreement says that you have to work towards the 2%, and that means working towards the 2%. Does the rapporteur not think that we should do so? The Radical Left tends to be very concerned about complying with the international agreements we conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140140	You have to try to work towards it. That is the direct translation of the text. This is a very little binding statement compared with other similar declarations. That's just my point. So, yes, we should try where it makes sense. That's the whole point. If it is the case that we get into a situation where we need to spend that money on Danish defence, then the Radical Left is ready. But we do not want to put money into something that we cannot see useful use for just because we have to try to achieve an arbitrary goal. I think this is where the difference is between the new bourgeois and the radical left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140220	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140221	If you convert these two percent, we're talking about about 17 billion. kr. more than what we're using today. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur also believes that we will spend more money on defence. Can the rapporteur give some indication of where it is between 0 DKK? and 17 billion. I should like to ask you what the rapporteur thinks we are going to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140243	So I do not dare to do so today on this basis. This is a major discussion and it also requires a great overview. All I can say is that I would like to answer that at some point, but it will not be as a share of bnp. This will be the number of good Danish crowns that we think are needed. I don't know what bnp Denmark has in 2, 3 and 10 years, and that's my whole point. I would like to discuss an increase in funding for the Danish defence if needed, but it must be in crowns and ears and not as a percentage of GDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140313	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140329	I wish your children would say/dad and mother they were now quite equal and they didn't get but by any wars/even though there were weapons and crazy heads enough. It is a small song that a local silk fortress named Lars Lilholt wrote in 1982 and which is from the album and the hell showed up and said yes! Hopefully it will not come as a crippling surprise that we cannot support a proposal to spend more money on the military. Basically, we do not believe that the world will be a better place for us and other countries to arm themselves more and more on military and weapons. It does not create stability to buy poor from others. the American and Israeli arms industry, and the war in Afghanistan and Iraq has clearly shown that military action often does not bring peace. The biggest threats to humanity and our planet and what creates the most conflict, uncertainty and war are the climate crisis, the galloping global inequality and also the global health crisis that we are in the midst of. Here, more hardware and support for NATO is not helping. If Denmark were to increase the defence budget so much, it would mean that we would have to add 10-15 billion already this year. kr. More in that box. That's a lot, and then you can multiply the numbers yourself. The Finance Act clearly shows how to expect bnp increases. Especially at a time when our welfare is deeply pressured by corona, it will really hurt to have to raise the defence budget, and if we look at it from an international perspective, think about how that money could be spent on peace work, on climate action, on development and stabilisation and on vaccinations for the world's poorest. This is all something that would increase global security to a much greater extent than military armament if it increases any security at all. Especially if we look at the Arctic, Denmark, together with Greenland, can play a more important role in peace by contributing to disarmament and political agreements on stability, for example. defend the Ilulissat agreement instead of helping to break it. That is the direction we must take in our foreign and security policy. More weapons don't guarantee fewer refugees in the world. More weapons don't guarantee fewer starving people and fewer people who don't go to school. The Enhedslisten cannot support New Citizens' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140615	It is tempting, of course, to thank the rapporteur for the song, but I think that the most correct thing to say is that the platform is used to speak out and not to sing out, but nevertheless I would like to thank the rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Most would now complain about calling this a song, but that's the way it is). Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140647	Thank you very much, and I would also like to thank Mr. Christian Juhl. The former Lars Lilholt also sang that if you are to be honest, you have to be naked, and I would like to disapprove of that in the Assembly Hall. Thank you very much to the new citizens for putting forward this proposal for 2%. to the defense. This is a proposal which we have no doubt could also support, as money for defence is needed, especially with the great terrorist threat that is against the country at the moment. What the proposal perhaps needs to say is the funding, that is, from where they come about. 17 billion. kr. I expect new citizens to have a solution to this problem. What is also interesting in this question is what is included in the 2%, and thus how much money we really need. According to the Ministry of Defence, NATO's general definition of defence expenditure includes expenditure incurred to meet the needs of its own armed forces, Allied forces and/or the needs of the alliance. Whether expenditure has been incurred within or outside the national defence budget is therefore not decisive. From 2023 we get closer to the 2%, because you start to count on more things, for example. the defence's revenue from the sale of phased-out material and properties, which is approx. 200 million kr. per year, healthcare in the general health system for current defence employees, which is also approx. 200 million kr., qualifying civil education, which is 50 million. kr., and a retirement pension for former defence personnel, which is approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. So the amounts are increasing, and we are approaching a definition of the 2% that is closer to the rest of the world. Now I was told the other day over from the Danish Occupation that the United States has chosen to take research that can support the green transition into their measurements of how much one gives to the defence, and that is something that is also beneficial across society. So I actually expect that if this is going to be dealt with in committee, we will be debating what should be included in the 2% and what we need afterwards, and then we will have to see how far we are going. For it is quite right, as the former Foreign Minister said from the platform just now, that it says that we must work towards the 2%. I am not going to stand and shoot the proposal down, so I might be slightly optimistic about the resolution, but we look forward very much to taking part in it if it should be dealt with in committee and see if we can also vote for it when we have finished the debate and have seen New Citizens' bids for funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140933	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422140937	Thank you, and thank you for your positive reception, at least to a certain extent, and I would like to make a proposal for funding. If I can get other parties on our proposal, then we will have to take it when we get to it. The rapporteur has said in the past that the Conservative People's Party would like to take the lead in ensuring that we live up to our commitments. Can the rapporteur elaborate on what he means specifically by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141008	Yeah, you bet I will. Our obligations are described in Wales Summit Declaration, which states that we must work towards 2%. In 2024, and there is no doubt that we will do so. In addition, we have also taken the lead in the Arctic debate itself and the agreement reached with 1.5 billion, and I do not believe that the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party can say, at least with truth in his voice, that Conservatives do not stand on the side of defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141035	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141036	No, I didn't say so I can also look forward to the Conservative People's Party wanting to lift our defence reserve in the European Union. How can this be linked to the fact that we need to spend money on the European Union and defence cooperation in the European Union when we cannot meet our two-percent objective in NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141102	That is how it is true that there has been talk of whether we should not support an EU army and whether we should support the border guard specifically against the EU, and that is something we have looked at and are looking at, but that does not change the 2%. Because what's important in the 2% is how much is involved. Well, how much do you agree to be included in this 2%, how much is left and how much does the defense need? That is why my question to the Minister earlier about how much the Minister thinks it takes. And that's kind of what's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141138	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. There are no more brief remarks to the Conservative rapporteur, and the next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141157	Thank you for the floor. I was going to use my speaking time to be honest, and it may be that it is a little strange that you should stand and advertise it from the parliamentary platform, but a few years ago I spent a few hours in the media being honest right after the election, and it simply cleared the entire broadcasting area. So this honesty thing is a lot of breaking news when politicians are. So this whole thing, we're gonna try to use 2%. of the gross domestic product for defence, as several have said, is something that dates back to 2014, and it was a completely different world that we lived in at the time. It was a summit held in Newport in Wales on 4 and 5 September 2014, and it was the last summit where Anders Fogh Rasmussen was Secretary-General of NATO, the Danish Prime Minister was Helle Thorning-Schmidt, and the most senior member of the American delegation was Barack Obama. So it is a very long time ago, and here it is honest: I have simply never understood that changing Danish governments, including the one in which my party itself has been involved, obviously never intended to comply with this agreement. You just don't want to keep it, you just signed it, and you don't care about the rest. I understand that Helle Thorning-Schmidt could not reach 2%, because she had only one year to do it, and then elections were held, and then we know how it went. But we talked about it when we had the power. It was clear to everyone that they were words and words, but nobody intended to live up to these agreements, and now it is repeating itself. We are at the fourth government since the Wales Summit, and it does not sound as if it really intends to live up to the agreement. There's talk of plans and analyses, but it's just to camouflage that you're not really going to do anything. In fact, I do not think it is very conducive to respect for the rule of the people that we should be talking about in a way that everyone can hear that we are talking about. The word I want to use most is not allowed to say up here from the Parliament's platform, so I will use another word starting with B, namely "bragesnak," but it is simply useless talk that comes, and it goes beyond my understanding that one can continue with it. Do we have no honor at all? Sometimes I find it hard to see. Because what I think is the problem is that it is not just about concrete threats that the FE can tell us about, but that, firstly, it is about changing American administrations and we are up to the third, and two of them have been democratic. It has made clear that the balance between the United States and Europe in NATO is going to shift for some very fundamental reasons. The prerequisite for NATO's continued existence and for the fact that there is some substance in Article 5 is, after all, a more balanced burden sharing, and I think that should be clear. But the situation is also serious because the international balance of power is shifting. It is shifting between Russia, China and NATO, and this with a balance of power that is shifting is a very, very serious matter. I have said this before here from the platform, and I just remind you of it: Denmark has the world's fifth largest merchant fleet, and it is not per. Something, but it's just the world's fifth largest merchant fleet... there are pirates who are sailing in the South China Sea, there are plenty of problems. So I simply do not understand that we are talking so much about it. We must soon talk seriously about the world changing. I think that the only excuse I have not heard for our unstable relationship with NATO is the one that says this: it is not you that is wrong with NATO, it is just me. But we might be able to use that at some point. But, of course, we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141609	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141614	Thank you very much for your speech, which I thought was very good, and thank you for your support for the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141623	I do not see it as a question, but as a comment. So I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141630	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. There is no further brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, who is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422141657	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Minister for Defence for your speech, and thank you to all the rapporteurs for your rapporteur's speeches. NATO countries agreed at the NATO summit in Wales back in 2014: Each Member State also Denmark undertook that by 2024 we would have a defence budget of 2%. of bnp. The matter is quite simple: an agreement is an agreement, not least at this time, a time marked by threats from several fronts and changing geopolitical balances of power. It is crucial that we in Denmark show ourselves responsible. We must show that Denmark is a defenceable cooperative and respected nation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. NATO cooperation is undoubtedly the guarantor of Denmark's security. However, Denmark's security is not guaranteed by allowing others in NATO cooperation to lift our burden. In fact, Denmark is running from being able to lift our commitment in the alliance. The reality is that Denmark is a good step away from complying with the NATO agreement from Wales. At best we talk about Denmark's defence budget in 2023 being approx. 1.5% of bnp. Denmark must and must live up to NATO's expectations of the size of our defence budget. Otherwise, as a nation, we are politically and diplomatically untrustworthy in international contexts. Denmark's inadequate contribution to NATO is regularly apologized for the missions in which Denmark has taken part. However, this does not compensate for our inadequate defence budget. In a report from October 2020, NATO raises a strong criticism of Denmark's footwork. Changing US governments have so far followed with scepticism my discussions on the size of budgets. I understand if the Americans would like to see Denmark's commitment from 2014 to pay for its own security soon fulfilled, because otherwise, in Denmark, how can we expect the United States to honour its commitment to help in accordance with the Atlantic Alliance? It goes both ways. The reality is that right now Denmark is not in a position to defend itself satisfactorily, not at all against the threat picture we see in the world today. Normally, the Danish Parliament emphasizes international agreements very highly, but right here, Denmark obviously does not have to live up to our international agreements. It's amazing, especially when it comes to national security. I believe that we in Denmark must strengthen our defence. As soon as possible, we need to develop both the fleet, the army and the air force, the military intelligence service and other parts of the defence. That is the only way we can live up to NATO commitments. For Denmark's defence is affected by several conditions at once. NATO's defence ministers agreed in Wales that Denmark should give priority to three issues: the construction of a heavy brigade, which means an army of 4,000-5000 men, Joint Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance capabilities and anti-submarine warfare, i.e. ASV capabilities. But that has not happened. The consequence of the lack of funding for the defence is that Denmark cannot now issue a heavy brigade. Denmark is currently missing an intelligence image on the battlefield, and Denmark cannot fight submarines in the Atlantic, the Baltic Sea or the Arctic right now. It's not gonna work anymore. New citizens will see resolute political action on the part of the Folketing. Our motion for a resolution therefore requires the government, as I said, to use 2%. of bnp on the defense in 2024. That would be a total cost of 47 billion. kr. of 17 billion. kr. in relation to the current planned consumption. The funding is straightforward. The extra 17 billion. kr. For example, it can be followed on the following lines: the total development envelope, which amounts to 16.6 billion. kr., and business subsidies and subsidies amounting to 16.4 billion. kr. It is part of New Citizen's economic policy to abolish the above-mentioned expenditure. So the funding is in place. The savings mentioned more than meet Denmark's needs. And so we in Denmark can live up to our NATO commitment under the Wales Agreement. Denmark can no longer avoid the 2-percent objective. Denmark can no longer explain away the political footwork. Parliament should therefore make the right decision to comply with the 2-percent objective. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142132	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142137	I was close to being shocked. We'll just cross-check development aid with a stroke of the pen in 2024. That's not even enough for that increase. If that is the way New Citizens will finance this, then it will be a more dangerous world we will end up with, because then there will be more refugees, more who will fight for the fewer resources there are, more who will starve. And that means that we will have a world where there is so much instability and uncertainty. And there will also be a situation in which there will be more refugees, many more refugees, that is, if that is the way to conduct defence and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142233	I do not know whether that was a question, but of course I totally disagree with the recitals. All studies show that long-term foreign aid has no lasting effect. Lots of studies have been done, and a general feature is that they show that there is no long-term effect. So there is no need for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142253	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142255	I think we're out there where I'm at least giving up arguing if all the experts say that. That's not true. It's notoriously untrue. The rapporteur also said that we should be loyal to the agreements reached. At the moment, it is mostly about one of the most important agreements in order to have a safe and viable world, namely the climate agreements from Paris. We are not complying with them, and at the rate we are currently at, we are probably not going to comply with them. Was it not a good idea to observe the kind of agreements that would actually create a better and more peaceful world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142334	I believe that Denmark is now very much on the way to doing this if we do not already do so. I can easily find evidence rather than the statement I have made. Most of the studies carried out show that there is no long-term impact of development aid. There are a few fewer studies that show that it has a definite negative effect, and again there are a few fewer studies that show that it has a positive effect. But most, by far the majority, show that it has no long-term effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142406	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next round. Thank you very much. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142441	As you know, there is no minister in this area, as it is Parliament's own responsibility, so I will of course listen carefully to the debate on the proposal. The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142503	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party has prepared a draft parliamentary resolution on an independent lawyer's examination of cases in which the Danish Parliament has expressed criticism of ministers. The Danish Parliament must therefore decide to launch an independent law investigation into ministerial criticism in order to identify the practice hitherto adopted by the Danish Parliament in relation to the law of ministerial responsibility. DF therefore wants a lawyer's investigation to investigate all cases where a minister has received criticism, for example. in the form of a so-called nose, since 1990. In the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party lists a number of these cases as comments on the proposal, and the purpose is therefore to examine the practice which the Danish Parliament has adopted in these cases, also as regards cases in which impeachment proceedings have not been brought. We must ask a lawyer, including the Folketing, to investigate whether the cases could have led to impeachment; and if not the lawyer should have to decide whether the cases should have led to impeachment. I guess the short answer is yes. In principle, all 59 cases could have led to impeachment if the Folketing so wished, because it is entirely up to the Folketing to assess whether there is a basis for raising an indictment. In principle, the Folketing can do so without any further studies on the back of a napkin, if the Folketing so wishes. And the Folketing has done so. In all the cases referred to by the Danish People's Party, the Danish Parliament has expressed its criticism, and it has not been judged that there were grounds for indicting an impeachment. In this way, I must say, the basis for spending money, the taxpayers' money, to launch such a study seems rather a waste of time, for there is, of course, spent time and energy and effort to deal with all the matters that the Danish People's Party wants to investigate, and therefore the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142738	Thank you for explaining the proposal. When we have put this forward, it is on the basis that among other things. Mr. Jeppe Bruus and a majority in the Folketing in February decided to open an impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg for a relationship which we are at least some who believe is quite down in the same petit matter as the cases mentioned in the motion for a resolution here. And there it might be nice to have mapped out what kind of practice it is that the Danish Parliament over the past 30 years has used such a man's memorial period to emphasize just how peculiar the situation around Mrs Inger Nøjberg is. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Jeppe Bruus is, if he can not confirm, that in the preliminary provisions of the Law of Ministerial Responsibility there is, however, a definition of what ministers can be charged for by the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142834	I must confess that I cannot make the preliminary remarks on the law of ministerial responsibility on a stand-by basis. It is true that there are a number of paragraphs which define what the law is about and what responsibility one has as minister and that, therefore, if one violates those paragraphs, one is guilty of violating the law of ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142855	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142856	It was also silly to use the first question on a factual question I could just have mentioned section 5 and then the participation clause in section 3. What I want to do, sir. Jeppe Bruus, if not sir. Jeppe Bruus recognizes that there are some cases among the 60 which are mentioned in the motion for a resolution here, which could have appeared to be within the law of ministerial accountability, and that some could not, and that on that basis it would be nice for the Court of Justice to know, when it comes to considering whether Mrs Inger Løbberg is within or outside the law of ministerial responsibility, what standard the Folketing has adopted on the previous 60 noses that have been given?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422142935	Yeah, you can set out to map that out. One can ask a historian to do so, etc., but to ask a lawyer to investigate whether there should have been an impeachment, I think a little absurd, because in every case of the cases mentioned the Folketing has taken up that position, has done the estate, made the countboard up and measured the consequence that it should have towards the given minister in office. And in principle, as I said before, the Folketing can decide to raise an impeachment case on the basis of any request or on the basis of a citizen's proposal, if the Folketing so wishes. The Folketing is free to do so. The cases mentioned here have, of course, in common that they have been examined and have been the subject of a political process, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143016	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143037	Thank you and also thank the previous rapporteur for the thorough despriting. B 131 of the Danish People's Party has been explained, which is a proposal for a parliamentary decision on an independent lawyer's examination of cases in which the Danish Parliament has expressed criticism of ministers. It is not to tease, I say it, but it is probably a teasing proposal made by the Danish People's Party to illustrate a point, and that point reaches Mr. Morten Messerschmidt enough for when he gets the floor. But I would guess that the point is that in another case we have dealt with before, on the basis of a Commission inquiry, the majority of the Folketing has chosen to raise a case at the Court of Justice, and what is the point of the Danish People's Party is why it has not been done in many other cases. This is something you would have liked to have investigated. That's where I'll tell Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt and the Dansk Folkeparti (Danish People's Party) I think that Dansk Folkeparti (Danish People's Party) is aware in advance that we have a system for such a thing. If a minister has not done what he should do, there is a political system for it and there are degrees of criticism, including giving a nose. Moreover, I myself was mentioned in the motion for a resolution because, in my time as Minister of Taxation, I was given a nose for not having given some papers quickly enough to the Tax Commission, and I naturally accepted that nose, and I also agree with the criticism that was justified. There may be other cases in which a majority in the Folketing believes that the matter is so serious that it must have political consequences. It would typically be for a minister to resign. It happened to Mr. Morten Bødskov when he was Minister of Justice. It is also one of the cases mentioned. So many of the cases have had consequences and have been dealt with politically. In some cases my party did not think that there were grounds for expressing criticism, in other cases we thought that the Minister should resign. That's the way it is. There are also cases that led to a commission being set up. When you decide to set up a commission, a matter moves from being dealt with politically to becoming legal. It typically does this because it investigates the office of a minister and also the duties of officials. There's a system for the officials. For those who are employed as civil servants, there are consequences of civil servants' law if they have not complied with the law and they have done something wrong and there is strong criticism of a commission. If there is criticism of the minister who is being put before a commission, there are a number of sanctioning tools and one of them is "and it is the ultimate impeachment." We in the Left do not support going through all these old cases because most of them have just had a consequence. In many cases the ministers have resigned. I think that in some of the cases we would have liked a commission to have been set up when we dealt with the cases. This can be done again in principle, but it does not make much sense. Nor does it because we have a limitation period of five years in the law of ministerial responsibility, and in many of these cases there will have been a limitation period. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that we should change the limitation period, but it must be done forward-looking rather than backward-looking, just as we do not legislate with retroactive effect towards citizens and businesses. So we in the Left have also understood the point, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and although there is certainly a point, it is not a point that convinces us in the Left that we should support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143423	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143425	It's nice to know the point is accepted. The basic issue is to find out what the field is to assess the intent of the defendant. Well, I guess that sir... Karsten Lauritzen, as one of those who accuses Mrs Inger Løjberg, believes that she has committed a deliberate violation of the law of ministerial responsibility. And that is where it is interesting to find out what it is that you have previously assessed in other cases. And there, where I may not quite understand, sir. Karsten Lauritzen's speech and may be afraid that something hasn't slipped all the way to the Left's group room, is this about the fact that you don't have to get anyone to re-evaluate it, because when Mr. Karsten Lauritzen voted in favour of the impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg, because a lawyer's office had been asked whether they would recommend or they thought there was a basis for a case. So it is, of course, the same process that we want here, knowing that it is of course obsolescence and all these things, but nevertheless to clarify the understanding of the continuation of the law of ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143532	Yes, thank you. Well, as I said, you can choose to do that. I think that is the position of the Left, and I believe that there are a number of other parties who will share that view. Perhaps it is not the wisest place to use taxpayers' money, in other words to investigate some cases where there is still a limitation period. And in many of the cases a political consequence has been taken of the criticism that has been made. In the light of the Commission's report, it unfortunately points out that, in the opinion of the Commission, and in the opinion of the national judge, the legislation has not been complied with in the case of Mrs Inger Nøjberg. Then the Folketing asks two independent lawyers: Is there a basis for initiating an impeachment, that is, there's enough content in this? And that's what the two lawyers judge there is. Then it is the view of the Left that even though we are divided on the issue of the Left Party's position, it is very difficult to say that this matter should not be pursued. That is why we also voted in favour of an impeachment case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143641	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143643	I assume that the rapporteur agrees with the principle of equality before the law. That is why it is not reasonable for Mrs Inger Løjberg herself to carry out such an investigation or her defence to carry out such an investigation on all the occasions when a minister has received criticism. In other words, would it not be reasonable to have it mapped out so that she can say with certainty that there are 20 cases here that could have led to an impeachment case, which is clearly greater than what can be justified in her case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143722	Well, I am in favour of equality before the law, but the system we have for sanctions if a minister does something that the minister should not do is quite special, and that is why it is different from the penal code. And only then will a matter be dealt with politically, where a minister would typically resign. It can be said that Mrs Inger Løjberg did not want that in this matter, and she admits to me that she did nothing wrong. If one had come to this realization, it might be that a majority in the Folketing had not chosen to carry out a Commission investigation and that we had not ended up in an impeachment case. So there are differences between cases and therefore they are also treated differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is from the SF. Here you go to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422143838	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party wants an independent, appropriate and respected lawyer's office to be appointed to review the 59 cases in which the Danish Parliament has criticized ministers over the years. As we understand the proposal, the Danish People's Party wishes to examine whether there is a practice of when a minister's deeds or atrocities are so serious that they can lead to an impeachment • Perhaps prompted by the Danish Parliament's decision to raise an impeachment case against Inger Købberg. The purpose is actually interesting, because when is something bad enough to lead to impeachment? But the answer is probably given in advance: there is no answer to that. Because that's politics. It is the Folketing that decides whether to carry out a lawyer's examination; it is the Folketing that decides whether to carry out a Commission investigation; it is the Folketing that decides whether to raise an impeachment case. And the Folketing is changing, the power situation is changing, the debate is changing, some parties are getting bigger, others are getting smaller. In the parties the politicians are changed, the multi-numbers change, the mood changes, and all the factors and probably many more determine what the consequence will be when a minister commits some acts that the Folketing is critical of. It will probably be the same in the future. If the majority had not changed in 2019, a commission might never have been set up to investigate the illegal instruction, and without the commission there would have been no impeachment by now either. The former Prime Minister decided to vote against an impeachment, but the Left decided to be in favour. The Danish People's Party decided to be against, Conservatives decided to be in favour. But if it had been 4 years ago or in 4 years' time, the situation could have been different. What I am trying to say is that it is probably almost impossible to establish a practice for the consequences of dissatisfaction with a minister. Because that is politics, and it depends on what politicians sit at all times. That is why we can support the proposal either, because we do not think it is worth spending it on a lot of expensive lawyers who have to go through the cases to show that there has been no practice and that it is politics that decides when there will be an impeachment. That money's better spent on something else. On the other hand, we think it is an exciting debate, and we really do think it is good to have a more established practice for what happens when the Folketing is dissatisfied with the actions of a minister, which is why we are also very pleased to have established a committee of inquiry in which parties across the Folketing can decide to use different tools. The practice in the future will be that when there is a case, it should be examined and then the examination committee starts with a closed consultation. And then they can decide to do some lawsuits and, finally, a Commission investigation. I believe that such a committee can create a more established practice and hopefully also better cooperation across the parliamentary parties to control the government. But even in that committee it is, in the end, also politics. For it is the parties that must agree to use the tools, and that will sometimes require parties to agree to have something investigated that they may not see as a problem themselves. For example: It would have been interesting for the Danish People's Party today, in a committee of inquiry, to have voted in favour of a Commission study on the illegal instruction, just as we have voted to examine the process of killing mink. Well, we look forward to following the work of the Committee of Inquiry and we welcome the fact that it has now been established. And it gives the Folketing more muscle to the government in office at all times. However, we do not believe that there is a need for the legal investigation requested by the Danish People's Party, and that is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144228	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144230	But now it is 60 noses that have been given in the last 30 years because the Foreign Minister's handling of the respirator case in relation to Italy has added to it. So we're up to 60 noses. And what I think is interesting is that in several of these circumstances, something will probably have been done with a greater degree of intent than what it will be possible to prove that Mrs Inger Løjberg has done in relation to what is called the Board of Instructors or the Board of Child Bride. I think there are several professors who have been out talking about a eventuality intention, that is to say, down to the lowest degree, just accepting the risk of a breach of the rules. So I would like to ask whether Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt considers it reasonable for Mrs Inger Løjberg to be judged by the Court of First Instance for a eventuality intention, while other ministers have thus committed violations of the law of ministerial responsibility with a clearly more serious intention, for example. Mrs. Birthe Rønn Hornbech, when she was Minister for Integration. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144338	Now I am not going to pre-discount what the impeachment comes up with. We have to see that, and I don't get involved in it at all. I would not deny that it could have ended somewhere else if the Danish People's Party had taken the consequence of it before 2019, when power changed. I wouldn't deny that this would have ended up in a nose for Inger Løjberg. But it just didn't end that way. That is why a commission was set up, and when we had the two independent lawyers' assessment of it, I think we had no choice but to raise an impeachment case, because they said that there is enough material for it. Should we then have looked the other way and said: we do not? I think that is illogical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144421	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144422	So it does not violate Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt's sense of justice to know that there may be cases in this country where you do not punish for a deliberate relationship, but end up punishing a minister for an example. Involuntary relationship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144441	I think I will just repeat what is my answer: it is politics how to choose to react in the Folketing. I must also say that the Danish People's Party could have been a little more consistent if one is unhappy that Inger Løjberg has now ended up in impeachment. If you had reacted to it then, and you had every chance of doing so, then perhaps the matter had been different today. You can't say in advance how a case ends. However, it is clear that when a commission is set up which says that something illegal has been committed, and you get some lawyers who consider that a case can be brought, I think you have an obligation to do so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144518	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144538	Thank you. Thank you for your suggestion. I would also like to thank the SF rapporteur for an excellent presentation of the political element of these studies. DF's proposal is backwards-looking and a little counter-productive there could have been an impeachment in these nose cases; should there have been? However, in each of the cases mentioned, the Folketing has criticized, and they have also thought that the criticism was the appropriate sanction. There are nosings distributed which have been made by ministerial depart ments set up commissions. It has been the given political majority at the time that has measured the sanction, and that is the system that has been chosen. If you had to have something with a stricter equality before the law than a political assessment, you would have to get into the German system with a kind of bottomesverfassungsschutz. We cannot support this proposal. We don't feel it's worth the money to do this investigation, since each and every one of these cases has been assessed by a Parliament and the consequence has been measured out by reported Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144634	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144636	But Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen has helped to ensure that Mrs Inger Løjberg now has to be impeached. Is it not appropriate, then, to find out: what really is the framework, the framework of tolerance, if we are to call it what has been used and laid down over the past 30 years on other ministers who have violated the law of ministerial responsibility? Why is that not relevant? Or rather, because there is no doubt that it is relevant: why is it Mrs Inger Løjberg's job to make this possible? Should we not, in the spirit of the people's regime and the rule of law, ensure that it was made clear what the degree of intent or assessment has been of the previous cases, where impeachment has not been chosen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144719	Thank you. Well, there is a political assessment, which has even changed in the 2019 elections, where you saw Inger Løjberg's case in one light before 2019 and in another light after. So this is basically a political and not a legal assessment of some of the facts. And that will also mean, indeed, that the penalty is different and that there are people who have never heard more about their possible violations of the law of ministerial responsibility and people who have. So it's not a fair system we've screwed up. But I don't see how this lawyer's investigation can help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144753	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144754	Well, why does sir have a problem with that? Rasmus Helveg Petersen then voted in favour of it being a lawyer's office to assess the matter prior to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen voted in favour of raising the impeachment case against Inger Løjberg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144808	Well, I was very pleased to vote in favour of the impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg on the basis of the lawyer's investigation which was based on the Commission investigation which had been carried out because it was established that there were criminal offences in Mrs Inger Løjberg's case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144826	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422144842	Thank you for that, President. Ministers must keep the law, and now I quote from the Danish People's Party website, where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl writes: "But when the Folketing is to sanction that a minister or her system has not kept the rules to the letter, the seriousness must obviously be assessed. That is a statement that I fully agree with. For it is, after all, a cornerstone of democracy that ministers are complying with legislation, and I am glad that the Danish People's Party has now started to take a great deal of interest in the fact that ministers are doing so after we have a social democratic government. I must also say that it annoys me somewhat that it was not exactly the same when the Danish People's Party was the foundation of the previous government. Even today, when there is a Commission report and a lawyer's investigation assessing that there is an impeachment case, the Danish People's Party will still not recognise that the case concerning the unlawful instruction was serious. It is as if there is a double standard for the Danish People's Party, which means that if they agree with the policy followed, the ministers are allowed to break the law, but if they disagree, the ministers must comply with every comma of the legislation. It is a double standard that I simply do not understand. Whether you agree with the policy pursued, whether you agree or disagree with the outcome of a case, and whether you are good friends with a minister, a minister must always and without exception comply with the law. If mistakes happen, because that can happen, then you have to take responsibility for the mistake, and you should not ignore it. Of course, errors can be forgiven if they are recognised, but a mistake that is not recognised is hard to forgive. The Danish People's Party was not slow to call it a waste of tax dollars to open an impeachment case. And it's an expensive round, we can agree on that. But it could have been resolved parliamentaryly if the Danish People's Party had taken responsibility at that time and imposed a sanction on the Minister. But because they chose not to do so, we find ourselves in the situation we have been in here in February when the Folketing decided to open an impeachment case. The fact that we are conducting a legal investigation into all the situations in which ministers have been criticized or overturned seems to me to be disproportionate. After all, they have just been sanctioned, and then, if we are to talk about using taxpayers' money, we can also assess whether the costs are in line with what we would get out of it. But let us not agree that if it is the case that ministers do not comply with the law, then of course a sanction must be pronounced. I am therefore also looking forward to seeing the same commitment that the Danish People's Party has had on the mink case and on the security assessment of the intelligence services, if one day it should happen that we will have a civil government again. So to conclude on the study that the Danish People's Party would like to have initiated, I can say that the practice of the Danish Parliament is to sanction ministers when and if they violate the law. You can choose to do that immediately, but if you choose to take it so far that there is a new election, then the sanctions will have to be assessed accordingly, and it may end up being impeachment. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145204	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145206	I have to say that I think it is a bit of a dish of criticism, which, of course, is not just Mr. Peder Hvelplund, but also others of the Socialists, have corrected by saying that it was the fault of the Danish People's Party. I would almost like to say that the Danish People's Party has been the most consistent on this issue, as we do not think that Mrs Inger Løjberg has done anything wrong, and therefore abstained from voting for her criticism or for there to be a commission of inquiry or for there to be an impeachment. Where a criticism can be made is then against those who have first kept their hands on Mrs Inger Løjberg and then voted in favour of an impeachment if I may make that objection to the rapporteur. Oh. What I would like to ask in particular is that the rapporteur says that double standards must be avoided. I agree very much. After all, this whole proposal is about avoiding double standards so that we do not get a person convicted by the right of impeachment for matters which may be less breaches of the law of ministerial responsibility than what other ministers have not been convicted of in the past. So if the rapporteur like me is concerned about avoiding double standards, would it not be the most logical thing to vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145311	Now, first of all, on the role of the Danish People's Party, I would like to say that there is a reason why an impeachment is being brought. It is, of course, because there are lawyers who have judged that mistakes have been made that at least it is justified to be able to raise a case. That is why it is not just a question of what the Danish People's Party thinks, but precisely of being able to assess whether the changing explanations that have been given in the case that has all been able to be true and whether a parliamentary consequence could not have been drawn before. That is the answer to the second question. Because if you experience ministers who do not comply with the law, yes, you have to react, whether you are a parliamentary basis, whether you are a support party, or whether you are an opposition. That's one of them. What has also led the Enhedslisten to express distrust of a minister during this period, which led the Minister to withdraw. We have also helped to give ministers their noses. It is precisely because we are reacting as soon as we see that there is something, and then Parliament can choose to impose a sanction. That is the way that system is set up, and that is how it should be and, of course, there should be no one to watch over.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145418	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145419	That heroism isn't the only thing about Enhedslisten. The Danish People's Party has voted in favour of criticism, noses, so to speak, of a series of bourgeois politicians. Well, I actually think there are several of them here in the Chamber. So that is not the question. The question is how best to tackle double standards, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Because it was Mr. Peder Hvelplund, who was preoccupied with it in his rapporteur's speech. By running this case without any clarity as to the previous criticisms made against other ministers, it is precisely the risk that Mrs Inger Løjberg may be convicted of something that others have done even worse than, without being convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145456	It can be said that it always depends on the quality of the parliamentary basis or support party in place at any time. We have only to note that the quality of the support parties that were when Inger Løbberg was sitting was not sufficiently high to be able to pull themselves together to impose a sanction, since it could be done in time. This has resulted in us instead being in a situation where it has led to an impeachment. If we had had a parliamentary basis or a supporting party with a greater quality, we would have avoided being in the situation we are in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145533	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145555	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution to conduct an independent lawyer's inquiry into cases in which the Danish Parliament expresses criticism. The purpose of the proposal is to identify the practice which the Folketing has had so far in relation to the law of ministerial responsibility. When you decide to send a minister for impeachment, it is always subjective and depending on the individual case, where the Folketing then decides how to sanction a minister. When ministers commit some criticism, some are content with criticism in the press. There are some who get a nose on the committee. There are also some ministers who are being fired and, in addition to impeachment, yes, the second-largest consequence that can be drawn to a minister must surely be to be dismissed. When it is subjective and based on the individual situation, there is also no clear practice, as the Danish People's Party demands, and it is not possible to establish such a practice by analysing 59 noses. At least that seems difficult. The practice is that it is always subjective what criticism has to do with a minister. That then raises the good question: what should an investigation provide us with information? At least we know one thing, and that is that there are no consequences in relation to previous criticism and the 59 noses mentioned, or even in relation to some of the noses mentioned. It's not like that, sir. Nicolai Wammen as then Secretary of Defense can suddenly expect an impeachment following a survey of the 59 cases of so-called noses, and the proposers write that very well in the proposal. So when the only practice is that criticism and space of action are subjective in each case, depending on the political parties' reading of the gravity of the bread at the present time, and you can neither draw any consequences, it becomes difficult to see exactly what a lawyer's survey for several million kroner is to be used for. That is why we will not support the motion for a resolution either. But because you do not support a proposal, you can still praise it, and I would really like to praise the initiative, because behind this proposal I see an intention also to have a general discussion of what sanctions are available in our people's government today. The truth is, there are relatively few. It's a long way from a nose to a layoff to an impeachment. We in the Conservative People's Party would at least like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145839	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145842	In other words, the practice of the Court of Justice is quite limited. I think that's the fourth case, right? We have two judgments: we have Sigurd Berg, which was a violation of the supervisory authority with Alberti, and then we have the Erik Ninn-Hansen case. It is, of course, quite limited, and indeed at a completely different time. That is why we in the Danish People's Party say: Well, the areas where an impeachment could have been raised, but where the Folketing has positively failed to do so, are also part of the practice, that is, where there is a practice to simply drop the case. And that's exactly why we want this to be clarified. Now I know that Mrs Mai Mercado was one of those who acted as a prosecutor and voted in favour of raising this impeachment case. Does Mrs Mai Mercado not think that it would also be appropriate for the Folketing, which is acting as a prosecutor here, to assist Mrs Inger Løbberg in clarifying what is the practice? In all other areas, you can go in and look up the Ugskrift for Legal Service or Karnov or whatever it is you just can't do that here, because it's so few and so old sentences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422145949	Yes, but as I just mentioned in my speech, practice is quite clear because the practice for each case is that it is subjective and that it is dependent on the political situation, the political parties, contextual conditions, the spirit of time, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt even mentions himself. So that's practice. When there are matters which subsequently become the subject of criticism in the Folketing, it is up to the parties and the current majority in the Folketing to draw conclusions and impose sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150024	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150025	If that is politics, why did Mrs Mai Mercado change politics? In other words, I believe that during the period in which Mrs Mai Mercado sat in government with Mrs Inger Løjberg, you were not in favour of impeachment and then you became an impeachment. This can be justified if one says that it is law, because it could then be that something had been exposed that was not known and that, in practice, it seemed reasonable to be assessed. But if Mrs Mai Mercado is so concerned that it is a political assessment, why did she change politics on election day?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150057	I can completely deny that Conservatives should have changed politics. But since our rapporteur, Mr. Naser Khader asked Mrs Inger Løjberg if there had been any illegal relations, and we were told that it was not there, so we took it for good. Some might say we were too naive. As it turns out that there is a majority in favour of a Commission inquiry, we did not vote for it and that the Commission investigation was very clearly established that there had been an illegal situation and that there was also a lawyer's investigation which showed that the illegal situation would lead to a conviction, it was very, very difficult to ignore if you are a responsible party in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150139	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And if Mrs Mai Mercado would like to thank you very much. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150206	Thank you for the floor. There are previous rapporteurs who have described what this motion for a resolution is all about. We believe in New Citizens that it is a relevant study that is being prepared so that New Citizens can support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150221	Thank you. This did not give rise to brief comments in favour. We will continue with the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150247	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt and others from the Danish People's Party suggest here that a lawyer's survey should identify how the Danish Parliament has dealt with previous cases, where the Danish Parliament has expressed criticism of the way ministers handle their ministerial duties, with the aim of seeing whether there is a systematic or a lack of systematic conduct, and whether the initiation of an impeachment case against Mrs Inger Nøjberg is an expression of a systematic approach or contrary to a systematic approach. We can support such an investigation. We think it would be good to clarify this and if such an investigation could be carried out, if there are some lawyers who say that they can systematize it here, then we think it could be enlightening for everyone to have it done. I think the study will show something quite different from that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt wants it to show that there is a great difference between the case on which Mrs Inger Løjberg is now faced with an impeachment, and then all the nose cases that have been in the Folketing. That is because the seriousness of what has led to Mrs Inger Løjberg coming for impeachment is well-informed by a commission of inquiry, and that is serious. The message from the Commission of Inquiry is that the Minister was told by his officials that if she went that way, it would be an illegal administration, after which the Minister nevertheless ensured that the system went that way, in other words knowing that the officials had told her that it would be illegal. It is a very serious way of acting as a minister, that is to say, to enter with open eyes into something that has been told is an illegal administration and therefore there is a basis for impeachment. If, on the other hand, we look at all the many nose cases that have taken place since 1990, there are a large number of those who express the wish of a supporting party to get some attention on a matter and know that if one withdraws the support of a particular minister and expresses criticism with the opposition, one can also use it as a means of exerting pressure on the Minister and a government in other cases, that one uses it as a tactical means of power, and that the substance of the criticism itself made by the Folketing, because the support party is changing sides, is extremely thin and sometimes even completely gone. There is no substance in any of the nose cases • there is just a support party that sees the possibility of strengthening its position of power against the government by threatening a ministerial storm. I believe that such an investigation will show that there are these very great differences and that the case which has led to the Court of Justice against Mrs Inger Løbberg is quite different. That is why we can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150609	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150613	First of all, I would like to commend and thank Mr. Ole Birk Olesen for being the only one who would then seem to take the legally correct consequence of voting in favour of this impeachment case, namely in terms of getting the practice properly clarified. I think that both he and his party are honored by that. And then I just want to ask that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, in relation to the lawyer's statement requested by the Danish Parliament, will confirm that what the lawyers come up with is that the relationship lies somewhere between intent and gross negligence, and that in the event that Mrs Inger Nøjberg can be convicted of having committed a deliberate offence, it will thus most likely be in the lower degree of intent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150659	I do not remember exactly how they put it, but in the Commission of Inquiry, which is, of course, where the most time is spent on the matter itself, it is probable that the Minister has first been told that if she continues with that practice, it will be an illegal administration and that, secondly, she nevertheless gave an instruction to her official apparatus to go that way. This is a serious matter, and that is why the Commission of Inquiry and the lawyers, who subsequently interpret the work of the Commission of Inquiry, come to the conclusion that this could most likely lead to a conviction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150744	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150746	Now I have the document, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen got, in front of me here, and it says: "There is a reasonable presumption that if the Court of Justice, if the Board of Instructors' findings of evidence are not altered, or new conclusive evidence emerges, it will find that there is a continuation or gross negligence... Then I think you must be somewhere between the two relationships. And then I just want to know if not Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen can come up with a few cases among the 60 mentioned in the motion for a resolution here, where it is most likely to be said that the minister in question has committed something that was higher up in his intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150821	Actually, I can't think of that right now. So, on several occasions, the Danish People's Party has referred to the matter which Mr. Morten Bødskov had as Minister of Justice, where the police refused to let Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard go to Christiania. In that case, I was not aware of any information that Mr. Morten Bødskov, for one thing, was involved in it and, secondly, had been told that there would be a wrong course of action, but still asked his device to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150856	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422150915	I believe that most people in Denmark have heard about the law of ministerial accountability here in the past year. Perhaps some have read it too; perhaps one has only read about it. It is quite affordable; it is not one of the longest laws • try to run the equation law through instead. No, the law of ministerial responsibility is actually understandable. I think that most people who then set out to read the law of ministerial responsibility will be quite surprised at what is actually punishable as a minister. Now we have talked a lot about breaches of law, but now I quote: "If a minister gives false or misleading information or during the Parliament's handling of a case that is essential to the judgment of the Court of First Instance, one can be punished or if one simply does something which, according to the nature of the minister's position, seems wrong, one can be punished. So there is no need to be a violation of law. This means that the scope of what can actually be judged for under the law of ministerial responsibility is very, very wide. And it is in this light that it is interesting to find out what the background is for starting the case against Mrs Inger Løjberg. Several people have put out the cards openly and said: well, it is about politics. The problem for them is, of course, that they must also to some extent justify the fact that this is a matter of law. And in the law of the Western world, we usually operate with what we call a sylogism, that is, that you have a practice with regard to the legal text and that you have to have the two things to hang together. If they do so, then you can make the rule of law harmonize with a specific case, and reflect that practice, then you can pass judgment. And that is why it is important, not to say just generally interesting, to find out what practice is. the independent lawyer's office, which is actually so independent that they have hardly dealt with criminal law at all, it is quite obvious that we are at one of the lowest levels of intent. It doesn't mean you can't be punished. That is quite clear, because according to the law of ministerial responsibility, we do not even need to have done anything illegal in order to be punished; we just need to have done something that does not correspond to the nature of the position. So there is really no doubt that Mrs Inger Løjberg may be asked whether she should be Ole Birk Olesen earlier, about Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech, where, despite repeated appeals, no correction was made to a breach of the convention, which at least some think was a violation of law, that no assessment was made there. Because it is quite clear in my optics that the continuation there is greater than what can be expected from Mrs Inger Løjberg. It is quite true that lying to the Folketing is not in itself a violation of law, but it is an independent delict, and that is why one has to compare the degrees of intent in order to find out whether it is reasonable for Mrs Inger Købberg to be convicted or not. The fact that she can be judged is not, in fact, a question at all, because I am quite sure that the left-wing majority in this Parliament finds that she has done something contrary to the nature of her previous position. The question is whether she should use practice in all other contexts. It is also illegal to run across yellow lights, but it is very, very rare that such cases end up in the judicial system, because one has a practice of dealing with that in a different way. And that is why we in the Danish People's Party would like to know what this is actually for a practice that the Danish Parliament has adopted in previous cases. And these are completely unaccountable examples, because they are out of date, so these former ministers cannot be judged for anything that the rules are today like, for example. When Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen paid out 1 million. kr. to his good friend, without there being any legal basis for it, or such as... When Mr. Morten Bødskov gave lies to the Folketing, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned, or lots of other cases. So if you wanted to deal with this impeachment properly and fairly, you should perhaps first of all owe it to the one you have chosen to accuse, namely Mrs Inger Købberg, but in fact also yourself and the integrity that the Danish Parliament and the Danish Parliament should consist of, to identify what practice is. And that, in all its simplicity, is what we have been mapped out here today, i.e. that you do not want to. New Civil and Liberal Alliance would like to support the proposal; of course I am very much in favour of it. However, I think that it must be quite an open question how one can both act as a prosecutor and at the same time rob the accused of the possibility of actually navigating in practice. In relation to the red parties doing so, I would say: peace be with it. Well, this is about politics, we've heard; it's about getting Mrs Inger Løjberg down her neck. It was not possible to do so to the electorate, it was not possible to do so with one's arguments; then you use the Court of First Instance. But I have to say that in relation to the two bourgeois parties who voted in favour of the impeachment case, it seems rather strange at a time when you were in government with Mrs Inger Løjberg. When things came for a day in the press, they accepted what the situation was like, but suddenly, on election day, politics changed. I think that speaks to the history books in a rather subtle way. But we look forward to further discussion here in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Then we must see if, with good arguments, we can get our blue friends to think better. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422151453	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422151508	This resolution has just emerged from a citizens' proposal and, as you know, there is no minister in this area. It is Parliament's own responsibility and I will therefore listen carefully to the debate on the proposal. The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422151545	Thank you. We must now deal with a citizen's proposal on the mink case. One has to understand from the title, which says 'Mette Frederiksen for an impeachment now', that what the proposers want is for the Prime Minister to have an impeachment on the basis of the case. I am not going to draw the tension unnecessarily: this proposal cannot be supported by the Social Democrats. It is a little small with the justification for the proposal. It reads: "Mette Frederiksen must account for the lack of legal basis to kill healthy mink, including breeding animals. ▪ And on it says: "There are many misleading conditions that have taken place in terms of defence, police and emergency services, as well as road hauliers and mink farmers. ▪ The process and decision-making process has been described after the government decided in early November 2020, on the basis of a risk assessment by the health authorities, that all mink in Denmark should be reduced. And it is regrettable that mistakes were made in the decision-making process. Evidently, not all minks were allowed to be killed in Denmark, but only minks within the infected zones. That doesn't change the fact that the decision to knock down the minks was the right one. On 3 November 2020 there were 255 infected mink herds in Denmark, and SSI writes in a risk assessment on the same day that a continued mink breeding during an ongoing COVID-19 epidemic poses a significant risk to public health. Including the possibilities for optimal prevention of COVID-19 with vaccines. The SSI states further: "Per 2 November 2020 SARS-CoV-2 infection has been detected at 191 mink farms. This development has taken place despite the intensive efforts of the authorities in this area. to limit the infection. At the same time, infection with new types of SARS-CoV-2 virus adapts to mink (minc variants) in the local population, and there is a strong geographical and temporal correlation between the number of positive mink farms and the incidence of infection among humans. Mink with SARS-CoV-2 represents a large reservoir of virus, which is a major commercial risk associated with mink breeding in infected areas, and it has not succeeded in limiting further spread to the surrounding community. ▪ I quote further: "There is therefore a significant risk of recurrence of spread of infection among mink and people seen in West Denmark in 2020. This is estimated to present a high risk to public health, both by increasing the burden of disease among humans, and by a large virus reservoir in mink increasing the risk of reoccurring new viral mutations against which vaccines do not offer optimal protection. Overall, the flock immunity obtained by vaccination or over infection may be impaired or absent. At the same time, it is likely to significantly reduce our ability to maintain epidemic control in Denmark, which may result in the imposition of additional restrictions and restrictions on social services, etc. Why am I quoting all that now? It is, of course, because it is on the basis of that risk assessment that I still think it is very difficult to understand today that there may be parties here in the Folketing who soberly believe that one should not make the decision to put the minks down. Does this mean that, in the light of that risk assessment, a government can make a decision that is not legally binding? No, of course it doesn't mean that. That goes without saying. Therefore, as soon as the minister responsible realises that there are challenges in the legal basis, not by trying to hide the error, but by publishing that there has been an error, both to the Folketing and to the public, and in fact before anyone from outside points out that the legal basis should be lacking. There is also responsibility for the mistake, which, of course, is one of them. has caused the minister responsible to leave the post. In addition, the error has been deplored, not least against the Danish mink growers. In addition to the statements that have already been made on the progress made, the matter is also subject to a number of independent investigations, which we support from the Social Democrats, because it is the right thing to do. One of the subjects to be examined in the forthcoming Commission of Inquiry is, of course, whether the decision was actually justified. There have subsequently been various interpretations of this. This also gives us what the proposers of this citizens' proposal want, namely an independent explanation of the matter, including the legal basis of the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422151954	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422151958	Thank you. We are talking about an entire profession being wiped out, and the rapporteur then stands up and calls it a mistake. It was simply a mistake. In other words, what is meant by errors in social democratic terms means violations of law in many other parties and also breaches of the constitution. So I'm actually just gonna ask sir. Jeppe Bruus about something. If we come to see the same course as with the Instructor's Commission, where there is first a Commission allowance which shows that there had been a violation of law and then there had to be a lawyer's assessment which shows that there could potentially be a judgment, how will the Socialists stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152043	There's a lot of ifs in that. We have just debated the impeachment that is about to begin, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also referred to intent and gross negligence. Well, there's a lot of facets in why we ended up with an impeachment case that I don't think can be compared to this at all. But all of this also presupposes that you actually have a commission and that, as we say here, you naturally submit it to an independent investigation. But we have nothing to fear, and that is why we have always supported a Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152111	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152112	Let's try this one more time. Sir. Jeppe Bruus says that there are many facets and if and if and that it is difficult to decide. If we now assume that the premise is such that there will be a committee of inquiry which will be completed next spring, which will say that there has been a violation of law. It may well be that it has been done with some good intentions, but there has been a violation of law and there is also a legal assessment which says that there can be a judgment; if that happens, what does the Social Democrats intend to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152144	This citizen's proposal is about Mette Frederiksen for impeachment now. Not Mette Frederiksen for an impeachment after a commission. And I hardly have the imagination to imagine that honorable responsible parties here in the Folketing could support a proposal for impeachment on the basis of a citizen's proposal, when at the same time a commission has been set up. I do not have the imagination to imagine that that commission ends up with impeachment, I simply do not think it does. And there's basically a big difference between those cases. The first thing here is that when you discover a mistake, you point it out to yourself. You put it out openly, you explain it, and you regret it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152217	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152220	Thank you. The Prime Minister made a hovsa decision and removed an entire profession almost with a fingertips. It will then be announced that this is a mistake and you will continue to drive anyway. It's almost a confession case. You shouldn't have stopped it. In all sorts of other contexts, it would of course be said that this should have consequences. Is it not only fair that it should also have consequences in such a situation as this one? Surely it cannot be otherwise when there was no legal basis and we live in a community governed by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152252-2	Well, it's had a consequence, too. In other words, the minister responsible is no longer a minister in this area, despite the fact that I believe that he was very badly helped by his official work. It was a serious mistake, there is no doubt about that, and that is why it has also been explained, and we have also supported an independent investigation into it. It just doesn't change how you react when you discover that something has happened and that there is probably no legal basis for making the decision that you have made. You put it under the carpet? Are you trying to hide it? Are you trying to use a majority of support parties to cover it up? No, you don't. You take the bone yourself and call the Danish Parliament. You make it public to the press. And that is a very different way of dealing with such a mistake in relation to what has been seen in previous governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152332	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152334	Well, the rapporteur himself has just stood on the platform now and admitted the confession case. It was a mistake. This was said very soon after, before going out and carrying out the removal of the entire mink industry. Shouldn't such a situation stop? I mean, just to take an example, if you drive too fast and discover that you drive too fast, you will of course have your speed lowered in a hurry it will be perfectly normal. And it will be in all sorts of other situations if you are told that you have acted illegally then you will stop it. So it should have consequences when you just keep going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152410	Well, you sort of stopped, didn't you? Now we come down to the discussion of days here. But it is not the case that we did not stop; it is not the case that we did not say, 'Try to hear, we made a mistake.' And you write to the Danish Parliament and you point out to the rapporteurs that a decision has been taken here which is apparently not justified. And, of course, you have to make that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152429	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152432	Sir. Mogens Jensen was co-responsible as Minister for Food, but the most responsible minister for the Minkskandalen was the Prime Minister. The decision to embark on the extermination of the profession was taken on the government's coordination committee, where the Prime Minister sat at the end of the table. We also know from the storytelling that Social Democracy itself makes about Corona Management in Denmark, and from the whole way of social democracy to be the governing party with Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister, that it is the Prime Minister who controls this government. The person responsible was Prime Minister. We have joined the majority of the people who say: first let us have an investigation into it. But if it had only been up to us, then the fact that even the Social Democrat rapporteur recognizes that there was no legal basis, we could go straight to the Court of Justice, because we know that illegal acts have been committed. There was no legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152542	We have openly explained the process and we also had a question debate last year in the Danish Parliament on it. The decision-making process is, of course, the fact that there is a responsible Secretary of State who is ultimately responsible. Although I believe that he has been very badly helped by his system, it does not change the fact that, in the end, there is of course a political responsibility, and it has also had a political consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152608	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152611	After all, many of the government's ministers are involved in this, and over all of them the Prime Minister is hovering as the person who decides everything. After all, it is not the Minister of Food who can be designated as the villain. After all, it's the entire government that has done it, and the whole government is led by the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister has been a key person in this decision. That is why there must be an impeachment case against the Prime Minister in this case, because the illegality is acknowledged and because we all know, including from the socialist storytelling, that it is the Prime Minister who controls everything in this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152650	You can make all the stories and stories you want. After all, there is a government of ministers in Denmark which is based on a college and where each minister is responsible for the resort for which he or she is responsible. You can then bend and change that in your stories, but that's the way the rules are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152708	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152710	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for his speech. There's no doubt that this case has been almost blacked out. After all, we have seen that almost six months have passed before skilled journalists have had the opportunity to have access to documents. But some of it has been clarified, among other things. that Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, Minister for Food Mogens Jensen, Minister for Justice Nick Hækkerup, Minister for Business Simon Kollerup, Minister for Finance Nicolai Wammen, was given supporting documents at a meeting on 1 October, where it was clear that if all mink in Denmark were to be killed, there should be a legal basis. Does the rapporteur not think that it is quite aggravatingly irresponsible to order that all mink in Denmark be killed when you know that there is no legal basis for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152800	I do not agree with that interpretation. What we are now going to refer to is then an annex to the 1 October meeting, and I think that is what it is, Mr President. Per Larsen refers to, and there are no scenarios outlined that the decision taken on 3 November should, if necessary, be illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152817	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152818	I don't understand. But let me try something else. You excuse yourself that you did not know what you were dealing with and that there was no legal basis, but when you saw on 7 November that there is no legal basis, and I know that, because the Minister of Food called me on 8 November and said that he wanted us to help bring about some legislation... but continue the illegal action with the police, with the army, with the FDA on the premises, is it not a further tightening up of the law that you are in the process of?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152855	The army and the Emergency Agency are operating within the zones, and then there have been doubts about some of these action cards in relation to the police's instructions on it, etc., and that is something of which we have now started a legal investigation. But I do not agree with the idea that there has been an action outside the zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422152923	Thank you. It was a question which my good colleague from the Conservatives asked, but which I do not think Mr. Jeppe Bruus answered. That is why I would like to ask again. Can one expect, if you are a mink and a citizen of this country, affected by the very, very violent decision of the Prime Minister and the government without having a legal basis, and if the commission that is about to be set up comes to the conclusion that yes, here there has been an illegal act and if there are independent lawyers who propose to the Folketing that there should be an impeachment, that the government and the Social Democratic Party would support it, just as they supported an impeachment case against Inger Nøjberg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153007	It will be speculative and, as I have explained, I have no imagination at all to imagine that it will end there. But I have to assume that, as a citizen of this country, one can expect, as a mink, that one can expect, as the one affected by it, that the Folketing will deal with this matter seriously. This means, among other things, that when we have such a citizens' proposal here about impeachment now and at the same time we have been involved in a Commission study, we do not, of course, just support a citizen's proposal. That would, of course, undermine the investigative work that is under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153033	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153035	Yeah, but fair enough, you can't force an answer out of sir. Jeppe Bruus, if mr. Jeppe Bruus doesn't want to give it. But the question, which I really think is quite simple, was that we have a system under which a commission has now been set up and if it reaches the point that there are ministers here, perhaps the Prime Minister, who are not complying with the law... not because there is a lack of victims and consequences of the decision taken and if two independent lawyers, who make an assessment in the Instructor's Office, show that there is an impeachment case here, would it be supported by the Social Democratic Party? It's a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153111	Well, I've seen the answer, and thank you for the opportunity to answer for the fourth time. I am not sure that with my answer I can satisfy what the questioner wants. I have no problem with that investigation. We have supported it ourselves. Unlike the then government, which did all they could to prevent an investigation into the Instruction case from actually taking place, we have supported it here, because we think it is reasonable, when such a serious mistake has been made, that we are presenting ourselves with what has happened and that we will then have it verified by external forces. We have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153142	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153146	I have to say that I am a little surprised to hear from the rapporteur that we have the government of ministers in this country, so the last time I checked it, I thought we actually had the government of the people, but of course I take note of that. What I would like to ask is the circle that, as a minister, we must have done something illegal in order to be judged by impeachment and that, as the Prime Minister, we must have violated the law in order to be judged by impeachment. Will Mr. Jeppe Bruus maintain it? And if so, I'd like to know what kind of law it was, sir. Sigurd Berg had disobeyed when he was convicted at the Court of First Instance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153220	We have just had the debate on a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, where I said that we can confirm that. The Danish Parliament can decide to raise a right of credence on the basis of a napkin or on the basis of a citizen's proposal with a single title, so it is possible, and there will probably also be parties here in the Danish Parliament who will support it. I would just be very surprised if there were honorable parties who have almost always sat in the Folketing, who failed to support an impeachment case on the basis of a single line; that would seem very, very strange to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153251	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153253	Well, what I was actually asking was, if not, sir. Jeppe Bruus would like to confirm that, as a minister, you have a duty of supervision and, of course, as Prime Minister, you have a duty of supervision over other ministers, and that this will be particularly relevant. I don't think anyone imagines that the Prime Minister was so actively involved in the process, but they're probably thinking, and that's where the cat is really buried, or the dog... where something is buried... the mink
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153330	That interpretation is a little in contrast to the interpretation of Mr. Ole Birk Olesen a little earlier, but I agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in that the Prime Minister has an obligation to provide information, that is what the role is, and that is why my answer is as it was to Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, namely that it cannot be concluded that the Prime Minister is then solely responsible for all decisions taken by Resort Ministers. After all, things don't work that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153352	Thank you. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. While we are just getting the booze off the platform, I can say that the next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153411	Thank you very much. We are discussing here a citizen's proposal that Mette Frederiksen should be brought before an impeachment now. As the previous rapporteur has said, there is not much text, but it says that Mette Frederiksen must explain the lack of legal basis for killing healthy mink, including breeding animals. I believe that this was a citizens' proposal which received the rapid approval of the 50 000 needed to deal with a citizens' proposal, and I believe that it was quickly endorsed because there are a great many people who have been affected by the decision taken by the government. I personally believe that the decision was taken on a basis which will prove to be extremely inadequate. The decision was made in a situation where one should have sat down and thought about whether it was the right thing to do. A rapid decision was taken in a panic, if you will, but with very, very large human and economic costs for people who work in the mink industry and who have been operating for decades. From one moment to the next, they had to close and the animals had to be put to death. It is true that there was an assessment by the Statens Serum Institute that there could be a risk, but it is of course an assessment by other experts from among others. The University of Copenhagen has been severely challenged. And yes, there's a risk of infection among mink, but it's nothing and I'm quite convinced that that says that the only way to deal with the risk of infection is to kill all mink in a split second at a press conference. But that was the decision of the government and the Prime Minister, and it turns out, from what we know at the moment it is at least our clear impression in the Left that it was a decision that was made without having a legal basis, i.e. that it was an illegal decision with very, very severe consequences. It must be the responsibility of the government for this and that is why the committee of inquiry set up by the Danish Parliament will decide tomorrow to set up a committee of inquiry, and when the committee of inquiry is completed, there will be a recommendation from it, and then the parliament will have to act on that recommendation. And if it turns out, and I think it does, that the government has acted illegally, then of course it must have consequences, and the natural consequence of that could be to raise an impeachment case. That would only be fair to the people who are affected by this very, very violent decision that the government made on a very fast and very, very uncertain basis. Perhaps in the best opinion the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, but that does not make it the right decision and it does not change anything. And no matter how good your intentions are, you cannot, as a government, make decisions on a non-legal basis. You cannot make illegal decisions. Hopefully, we can all agree on that. So, for those reasons, the Left can support the citizens' proposal as it stands here. It's not legally binding. There is a majority in the Danish Parliament. Hopefully it is all the parties of the Danish Parliament that have decided to set up a committee of inquiry, so it will probably not be adopted. But I think we owe it to the people who are affected by this very, very violent decision to show that we take this very, very seriously. That is the position of the Left on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153800	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153804	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I have to say that I am a little confused when I hear the rapporteur standing here on the floor of the Parliament and talking about the system of the Committee of Inquiry and later the Committee of Inquiry to tell you that a proposal that mentions impeachment now, that is not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, not in three weeks' time, but an impeachment now. I would have understood that the leader of the Left, the Left Parliamentary Group, intended to follow the investigation work carefully and thus not be able to support this resolution, so what has actually happened in the Left since suddenly, as I understand it, has been turned 180 degrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153857	Well, we also support the process that has been agreed, but it is, of course, the expression of a political majority. In other words, there is no doubt that we in the Left would have liked to have set up a commission more quickly, and perhaps we would have done it differently from what is described in the review commission and the legislative work. It was the Radical Left that we should have talked about, and we are very pleased that we have reached a good agreement, but that does not mean that we would not necessarily, if we had had the majority, but unfortunately we have not dealt with that matter differently. So we stand entirely by the process that is, and that is the case with a citizen's proposal, and it is also the weakness of the citizens' proposals that, when there are 50,000 who have signed it, it will be debated in the Assembly, but it is not legally binding, and I can say that we would have done it differently in the Left if we had tabled the proposal, but out of respect for the many people affected by the resolution that we are convinced was not legal, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153957	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422153958	But, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, you say you stand by the process that has been set, but you don't. So, you are voting in favour of a motion for a resolution which says 'Mette Frederiksen for the Court of First Instance now'. Then we are not in favour of the process that we have been involved in negotiating among a number of parties. After all, the Left is a party that courtesy the government of this country. Is it really, after mr. Karsten Lauritzen's opinion, a responsible party that actually wants, if there was a majority, to scrap everything that has been agreed and then to set up an impeachment now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154033	Well, I get it, sir. Anders Kronborg's desire to protect his party's prime minister and government, but we have not agreed with the Social Democratic Party that we would not pursue the government in this matter. We haven't promised to protect the PM. On the contrary, we will pursue this matter to the bitter end, and when such a violent decision is taken on a non-legal basis with such violent consequences, one must, of course, be held accountable for it. What is a majority in favour of the Danish Parliament is then a committee of inquiry, and hopefully when it is finished and comes to the conclusion that illegal acts have been committed we think there will be a majority in favour of initiating impeachment proceedings. We hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154110	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154111	I am also somewhat stunned that the Left will vote in favour of this resolution. We have just, even before the discussion of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's proposals, examined a number of the cases that have been and why they did not lead to impeachment. In common, it has been the expression that it has been subject to investigations and so on. Can the rapporteur of the Left not just explain why they now want there to be impeachment without prior investigation into what has happened? Because you have to understand that if you adopt it here and if there was a majority in favour of it, then we would stop all the work on the commission. That's really what it is, and then we would go to an impeachment right right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154155	There I have to correct the rapporteur. That is not the consequence of the resolution. It is, of course, a citizens' proposal, and it is also the weakness of citizens' proposals. We are voting on a statement of opinion which is not legally binding, and that will mean, if the proposal is adopted, what it says, that Mette Frederiksen must explain the lack of legal basis for killing healthy mink, including breeding animals. This will be done in the first instance by the Review Board. If the search commission arrives at the basis for impeachment, hopefully there will be a majority in the Folketing, assisted by independent lawyers, who will initiate the impeachment. And then the Prime Minister has to be impeached. That is why I think that if you want to pursue this matter, in parallel with the process that has been agreed, you can vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. That is what we have decided in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154238	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154239	So the Left will vote in favour because it is not binding? If there is a majority in the Folketing, I assume that it is quite binding, regardless of how one interprets the text, otherwise it would be a strange Parliament. That's one. The second is that the title is of course Mette Frederiksen of the Court of First Instance now. Then I'm in on that, sir. Karsten Lauritzen reads from the subheading. There's only one. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen must help me with that. After all, he argues that it has always been desired that there should be an impeachment, even before the commission was set up. I do not remember the Left expressing that. But maybe I heard it wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154312	Fortunately, the Socialist rapporteur does not know what discussions we have had with other parties prior to the process it was decided and for which there was a majority. It was making a law of investigation and making a search commission on the mink area. If we had an absolute majority we wouldn't have done it differently. And I can see the point Mr. Jeppe Bruus has, but vice versa, out of respect for the 50,000 people who have signed and the people affected by the decision, it would be strange if I stood here on behalf of the Left and said that we would just keep our hands on the government. We do not want to do that in this important matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154346	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154349	Thank you. We have to understand that the Left is now backing a citizen's proposal, with the title being impeachment now and, on the other hand, backing a committee of inquiry to uncover the course leading up to the decision on the minks. Is it to be understood that, regardless of what the Commission might come up with, the Left will stand by the resolution that we are voting for today, that is to say, that we will start an impeachment, regardless of what the committee of inquiry which we ourselves have helped to set up might achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154435	After all, I do not know what the investigation commission is going to do, but I find it very, very difficult to imagine that it will come to a complete acquittal of the government and the Prime Minister. I find that very, very difficult to imagine, but I don't know. I also do not know what impeachment will come to, either in this or in other matters, but I can say, and that is the political message that I am going to give here on behalf of the Left, that we do not want to hold our hands over the government in this matter. We want those responsible for a very, very violent decision to be held accountable; they will be held responsible by the electorate, but if the law has been broken, they must also be held responsible by a committee of inquiry and subsequent impeachment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154512	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154513	But I do not ask the Left or the rapporteur in any way to keep their hands on the government. I am very surprised that a party which until very recently was a prime minister now chooses to state that it is in favour of impeachment against the Prime Minister of the country before the investigation commission, which has itself been set up, has come to its conclusion. Can the rapporteur understand if there are people out there who think that this is a low point in the days of the Left as an opposition party since the Prime Minister's office was held?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154548	I can think of a large number of other low points, I can say to the rapporteur. This isn't one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154555	Thank you. The next one is sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154600	Thank you. First of all, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not the view of the Left and the rapporteur that citizens' proposals should be dealt with with with exactly the same respect and seriousness as any other proposals in this Chamber, namely that they look at the proposal and they assess it and then decide whether to vote for or against it. I am a little surprised when the rapporteur uses the argument that it does not, of course, matter because it is probably not going to be adopted after all. I do not think that is a particularly respectful way of dealing with a citizen's proposal. And I am a little puzzled when, in fact, a broad agreement has been reached on setting up a committee of inquiry. But please don't do this. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur about the handling. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that it could have been dealt with differently, and I am a little surprised when we know that the professional assessment that existed, both from the University of Copenhagen and from the State Serum Institute, namely that by having mink breeding, at the same time as there was an epidemic where the virus could infect between mink and humans, it would lead to a significant risk, while also creating unknown mutations. Is it still the view of the Left that it could have been dealt with differently from that of having to kill sick crews?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154719	Yes, it is, and I know there are minks in a number of places in the rest of the world, and this illustrates that if the only right thing was to knock down all minks, it might have happened throughout the world and not just in Denmark. That's why it was a violent overreaction. That's not the same thing as saying you shouldn't do anything. That must not be misunderstood. It's not the same thing. But we do not believe that it was the right decision to put down all the mink for rolling television cameras at a press conference. But it's not the same as not doing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154753	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154755	But there was the clear assessment from the Statens Serum Institut and also from the University of Copenhagen that it was And it is usually the case when we are dealing with veterinary diseases in Denmark that if you experience sick minks, you knock down the minks, and you also have a radius within which you knock down the minks. And there I think it may be that the rapporteur and the Enhedslist can then agree that we should have maintained that strategy much earlier in the process, so that we had avoided being in a situation where we would then have to act so dramatically at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154827	I do not think we are entirely in agreement, but the Enhedslisten has a point in the criticism of the change of strategy. This is not something we have been so concerned about in the past, but in view of the things that have emerged in Berlingske, many things are being questioned in the government's handling of this matter. That is why we are also of the opinion that if the government cannot explain itself, if the Minister for Health cannot explain himself and I think that the Minister for Health will have to consult tomorrow in the Epidemis Committee. It's a professional question, isn't it? It may not be suitable for a commission or an impeachment. But that it was the right thing the government did and it was necessary to put down all mink, I am quite convinced will not prove to be the case. What we should then have done, we must discuss and discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154914	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154916	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We radically agree that it is necessary to examine the circumstances surrounding the killing of the minks. That is also why we are taking part in this work of setting up a committee of inquiry. It is a political agreement that we have reached, among other things. I think that this is the way in which we should deal with this matter. The Left will now start a different work from that of the committee of inquiry. Is it not to undermine a political agreement? Does this not make it less credible to enter into political agreements with the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422154953	I do not think so. Our vote on this matter is about sending out a signal that we believe this matter is of such importance that, when the committee of inquiry is completed, we expect it to end up in an impeachment where some have to be held accountable. Then, of course, it may be that the investigating commission arrives that everyone is clean as snow. I just can't imagine that, but then we'll have to cross that bridge when we get to it. I just have to say that the agreement that has been reached on a committee of inquiry is not such an agreement in which we have promised to protect the government we have not. I can assure both those who are listening with that and my good colleagues around here in the Folketing. The very violent and wrong decision taken by the government on a non-legal basis, i.e. illegally, must of course be accountable to the electorate as well as legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155045	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155047	I see the political agreement we have with the Left as one in which we set up a committee of inquiry and, of course, it also follows that we have a whole process in which, of course, we see what the committee of inquiry will come up with before we come to a conclusion on the establishment of impeachment. That is why I am really disappointed with the vote of the Left. Can the rapporteur of the Left understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155107	No, I just can't understand that if I'm gonna be honest with you. But I live by the fact that the Radical Left is disappointed with the Left; yes, I am quite happy with this and other matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155126	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155128	I cannot help asking questions anyway, because if I am to be honest, for many years I have often seen the Left as a rather serious party. I knew that when agreements were made with the Left, they sat down and examined some things and made some observations and made sure that their work was done properly. So this is a rather historic day, which is why I have to ask the rapporteur: when, at the end of history, has the Left actually voted in favour of something that has not been studied at all, in other words voted in favour of something that has not really been taken into account, on such a basis as this? When did this happen before?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155208	Well, this illustrates the challenge of citizens' proposals. The Left is one of the few parties that are not in fact in favour of citizens' proposals; it is all the other parties of the Folketing. For a citizen's proposal is not legally binding; it is a political expression. A government can ignore a majority in the Folketing, and then the only sanction of the Folketing is to say that you want a parliamentary election or a new government. And it is no secret that we had formulated it differently. The proposal is, of course, an expression of opinion, and it is not very detailed, and I would have liked it to be specified on a number of points. But it is not, and that is why we have to make the choice, whether we will vote against and hold our hand over the government, or we will vote in favour and say that we intend to pursue this matter, and we hope that a majority of Parliament will. We have then chosen the latter, and I do not think that is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155304	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155305	Well, I also said this is historic. In other words, we usually have in a Left that gets involved, but right now I hear that the Left quite historically says: well, if there is a majority in favour, then we might as well vote in favour, or we can vote against, which means that if there is a majority, we can do as we please. That is to say, we have gone from a Left which actually takes responsibility, to a Left which is now on the free ticket. That is what we hear the Left saying, and can the rapporteur not agree with me that it sounds a little hollow?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155340	Well, I'm glad to hear the nice words of Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen on how he experiences the Left as a party. We are a serious party and we are thinking carefully about things and, after careful consideration and discussion, we have decided to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155401	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155420	Thank you, President. When I was enrolled at the University of Copenhagen in the morning of time, one of my absolute favourite subjects was constitutional law. I do not think I give too much credit by saying that many people considered me a bit of a nerd when I could sit in the gallery day after day and read up on constitutional law, while at the same time with half a penny I followed the debates here in the Folketing. It is therefore a pleasure to see how the Constitution, constitutional law, the law of ministerial responsibility, the Court of Justice, etc. Today has become the property of every man, that is, something that is simply discussed at home over the dinner table and discusses just as naturally as the latest sporting results. It's gratifying. That is why I think it is appropriate to start by thanking Mrs Dahl Pedersen, Mr Bente Dahl Pedersen. Claus Stenrevle, sir. Jan Sand and Mr. Steen Højdal to take the Constitution and the Court seriously and thereby prompt this debate. As has been mentioned earlier, the law of ministerial responsibility provides a very broad framework for punishing a minister. We do not know exactly where the bottom line is, because in the previous debate a majority of the Folketing has indicated that it does not really want to know either. The red majority will in any case be unfavorable in this matter, because if you do not know where the bottom line is, there is a certain probability, with the entire miser that the government has been through in relation to the killing of mink, that you are not just in a grey area, but somewhere below the bottom line. We think this is a serious matter. That is why we have also taken an active part in the work that has been mentioned in the study, and I am glad that this instrument has now arrived, in which the Danish Parliament, independently of the government, can examine a number of issues. That is so true, as Mr. Jeppe Bruus says that in practical exports something was done when it was discovered that something was wrong. But legally it took quite a long time for L 77 and the whole foundation to be put in place, and that therefore contains a number of serious dilemmas. Last week, at the request of me and the Danish People's Party, we had a debate on whether we should not investigate what kind of a provision of the constitution was being violated by the government. I think it has been acknowledged that someone was being violated, and I believe that Mr. Jeppe Bruus said, but is it § 3, the general legislative provision, or is it § 73, the expropriation clause? We still do not want that to be clarified. We in the Danish People's Party wanted the Chamberlain to be able to look at the individual mink growers and assess whether it was expropriative or not. This is quite essential not only for the individual mink grower, for now a compensation scheme has been set up, so that they are put forward as if there were expropriation, but also, in fact, for us in the Folketing, because it is the case that when expropriation takes place, there are special legal mechanisms arising from section 73 of the Constitution. 1-3, in force, and by not knowing whether this intervention is expropriative or not, nor do we know whether the legal mechanisms, minority protection rules, will apply to future cases. That is why it is right to have this on the agenda and, as I said, I will sign up to the citizens who have supported the proposal not only the four who have taken the initiative, but also the 50 000 who have signed the proposal. With the bottom level laid by the Folketing in relation to impeachment cases, most recently exemplified by the case, which it has wanted to raise with Mrs Inger Løjberg, I find it very difficult to imagine that there should be no grounds for impeachment against the current government and, of course, also the Prime Minister. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155831	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422155854	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to read a speech to Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, who unfortunately cannot be here today. It starts like this: the citizens' proposal we are discussing here is one of the shorter ones. In all its simplicity, the Prime Minister has to be impeached and the Prime Minister has to explain the lack of a legal basis for killing healthy mink, including breeding animals. This is a subject that we have discussed many times in the Parliament, in committee rooms and in the media. Since the decision to kill mink was taken, an account has been made of some of the events leading up to the decision, and the statement clearly showed that both the decision to kill all mink in Denmark, but also afterwards, was made very big mistakes in the official work, just as the then Minister for Food in our optics was too late informed the rapporteurs of the lack of legal basis and was late in fixing some of the errors which led to the start of the killing of mink without having the authority to do so. Today, the Ministry of the Environment and Food is split up. A new Head of Department has arrived and a new Minister has also arrived. It is a result of the mistakes that have been made, and the SF believes it was both questionable that it took so long before the risk of having mink farms and production was taken seriously, but also, of course, the subsequent course of killing without a legal home. That was unacceptable. With regard to the role of the Prime Minister, which is the subject of this citizen's proposal, we believe that the Prime Minister has already explained, on several occasions, the progress both in this Chamber and in the media, so that this part of the citizen's proposal has been accepted. In addition, a unanimous Parliament has decided to set up a committee of inquiry. After all, a committee of inquiry is a new political invention inspired by the political committees of inquiry which, in cases where there is a need to investigate events and progress in depth, can use various tools. Closed consultations may be convened to establish legal investigations and, in the most serious cases where more thorough work is needed, a commission of inquiry may be set up. Yesterday the UFO, that is to say the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, decided to proceed with the Committee's recommendations to carry out two legal investigations on the use of actioncards by the police and on the excavation of mink and to carry out a Commission study on the process up to and after the decision to kill mink. We are pleased to have established such a review committee, for it has been a SF wish for many years to have a study tool that is faster and more effective than the classic Commission studies. Now the Committee of Inquiry is going to continue its work on the Commission's investigation and we look forward to seeing the progress made so that we can learn from it and get on with it. The SF cannot support this proposal because it will short-circuit the good process of a study that has been initiated. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160157	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160214	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for giving a speech which I understand is on a temporary basis, but which, incidentally, was a good speech, I think. I also have respect for the fact that we do not think that this proposal will be supported immediately, but will wait and take it from there. But we are elected to the Danish Parliament; so is the Prime Minister. If we are to feel this way, I would like to ask the rapporteur, because we have both agreed to comply with the Constitution, what does the rapporteur think about setting such a process in motion here and at the same time violating the Constitution? Is it not quite obvious that this is quite wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160305	Well, we have just started an investigation to clarify what we can deduce about this process, and so I think one should be careful to say that the constitution has been violated, yet. At any rate, I have seen both experts who have said that it has been violated, but also other experts who have said that it has not necessarily been violated. That is why I believe that the best thing we can do is wait for this study and then we shall see what it achieves. But it is clear that the process has not been pretty, and that is why we have also supported the fact that this process must be examined, and I think that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160338	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160340	The reason I ask is, of course, that it has had immense consequences for really, very many people who were sitting around in Denmark and who, from one day to the next, had their lives completely turned around and got into an uncertainty that was hardly clear. For the sake of justice alone, can we not agree that it is quite, quite serious when you put some things into practice by the Prime Minister, for which there is no legal basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160411	Well there is no doubt that this has not been pretty, and so I have a very great understanding of the people who have seen their life's work sink into gravel. That is why I think it is best for all parties that we should now examine this in a Commission and clarify what has happened. And then I hope that there will soon be some payments on the way to the people affected by this, because it is clear that this must also be compensated for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160446	Thank you. Please calm down in the gallery. The next is Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160453	Thank you. I would just like the SF to confirm that we are on exactly the same principles that were advocated in connection with the Commission on Instructions. At the time there was no doubt about it, that is, when the Instructor's Commission made a clear assessment that there had been a violation of law, and when a subsequent lawyer's investigation considered that it could lead to a judgment, the SF was clear and said that it must of course mean an impeachment. Then I will just hear Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt confirm that the same will apply to a prime minister and that legal certainty in SF's optics is not about party color.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160535	No, legal certainty is certainly not about party color, and I think it is best that we look at the Commission study, and then we will assess what reaction it should then give. But I am not going to say here today that we are doing one thing, the other or the third. I think we need to read the Commission study to know that. We were quite reluctant to call for impeachment in connection with the Inger Løjberg case. In fact, we did not take a position on that until we had the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160604	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160605	I didn't know if I had time to push in. I did. But I think it is really nice that SF's relationship with impeachment is not about party color, because it must also mean that if there is a Commission investigation and a result where it turns out that there has been a crime and, at the same time, if it also turns out that a breach of law could lead to a conviction in a trial, then the SF is also prepared to send the Prime Minister for impeachment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160641-2	What I can assure Mrs Mai Mercado about today is that the SF believes that the law must be observed, and that is why we must see what the outcome of the Commission's investigation will be and we will not be able to take a position on anything until it is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160658	Then I have no further brief comments to make, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and he is the rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160729	Thank you. We are dealing here with a citizen's proposal that has the headline: the Prime Minister of the Court of Justice now. We cannot support this on the radical side for the following reason: the process of killing mink has revealed that some things have happened, which has then been apologized. It has not been okay with the things we would like them to be examined, and we are pleased that a new body for this kind of thing has been set up on a radical initiative, and it will be a committee of inquiry. We have established it broadly with the Danish Parliament, and it must, of course, investigate the whole matter. This means that we will have the role of Mette Frederiksen, the Prime Minister, buried, and that, of course, remains our policy, that is to say, we have set up a committee of inquiry to examine the Prime Minister's role in the course of the proceedings. I can add that we continue to support the very decision to put the Danish mink to death, because it was at that time the clear professional recommendation that the minks should be killed under corona, and of course we stand by that too. We are not prepared to take the next leap and say that the Prime Minister is going to the Court of Justice now, as the citizens' proposal suggests, because we want to implement the Review Commission, which we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160843	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160845	It will be the same question that I put to the SF, but with the addition that the Radicals were actually very active in setting up a committee of inquiry, and I would like to congratulate them on that, so I would just like to ask the question: if it turns out with a committee of inquiry that there has been a breach of law and lawyers subsequently consider that there will also be a verdict, then radicals are prepared to send Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen for impeachment, or will Radicals' attitude towards an impeachment depend on what party color is involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160925	No, we take the investigating commission very seriously. We will look at what it comes to and then we will form our position on the basis of it, and that is, I understand, unlike the Conservative People's Party, which does not take the investigating commission very seriously and would rather short-circuit the process and have an impeachment now, which I am actually somewhat disappointed about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160941	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422160942	That is a clear answer: yes, it can only be done with a yes here at the very last • The Radical Left will be prepared to send the Prime Minister for impeachment, if it is that there is evidence, or it turns out that there is a basis for decision on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161001	Clearly, if the matter is serious enough, we are prepared to take any consequence, and if it is not, we are not. However, we also take seriously, clearly in contrast to the Conservatives who are now going backwards from that decision, which disappoints us somewhat.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161015	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we give the floor to the next rapporteur, who is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161030	Thank you for that, President. I do not think I am insulting anyone if I say that there are probably many people in this Chamber who think that the Enhedslisten is sometimes really miserable, at least if you have tried to sit in government, because, in the absence of others doing so, we in the Enhedslisten have always been given the role of parliamentary basic control over everything that different governments do, and it is not so little that we have had to spend time in recent years. The fact that power corrupts isn't just something you say. At any rate, we have been able to see this with the most recent many governments. It is obviously something very human that power goes to your head, and unfortunately it is a condition that we also have to deal with in a democracy. Time and again and through successive governments we have experienced abuse of power, misdirection of the Folketing, rules set out in violation of the law, and I could thus continue, and every time Enhedslisten gets a presumption that something is going on that is not right, we do what we can to clarify the matter, and it is sometimes a little tiring. During the last parliamentary term, we had to ask several hundred questions to former Minister Mrs Inger Løjberg to find out what had been going on in the case of the illegal instruction. At that time, there was little help from parties that have seen the light today and are now very concerned about whether a minister is complying with the law. No, at the time we were actually quite alone. But with these famous minks, we're not alone. Fortunately, there has been a majority in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate the matter, and I really hope that the parties who voted with us there will remember to be as concerned about the rules of democracy at that time as in this case. For many years the number of cases in which ministers seem to have difficulty knowing where the limit of their power is going has been increasing, and it has unfortunately not been possible to say that the present government has done much better in this respect. If it had not been for the skilful Danish press, there was a great deal of information that we elected representatives had not received from the government in the many cases pending right now. We would have been eaten off with authority groups that never meet and look at matters, or just that ministers are not informed of what is going on of essential activities in their own ministries. That, of course, is not good enough. This should be one of the best democracies in the world, but it can obviously be difficult to deal with the power that comes with the office of minister, and it is good that we in the Enhedslisten should keep ministers in their ears. Whether a minister is red or blue or purple, the same rules apply and they apply to everyone, and we in the Enhedslist will continue to use all the energy we have to secure our democracy. Since in this case we have set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the case of mink, we cannot support this citizen's proposal; we will await the conclusion of the report from the examining commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161330	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161351	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is a citizen's proposal in which the title is: 'Mette Frederiksen for the Court of First Instance now'. It then says in the motion for a resolution itself that the Prime Minister must explain the lack of a legal basis for killing healthy mink, including breeding animals. The government has already made a statement which must at best be described as flawed. On the other hand, we will have a more in-depth investigation when the Commission of the European Communities finishes its investigation in about a year's time. Here's where we're gonna see what's going on. Did the Prime Minister break the law when she ordered all mink to be struck down, and was the law also broken in the following days, when the order to knock down all mink stood by force, even if there was no legal basis for the order? Here it must be the case that if it turns out that the Prime Minister broke the law, it must have consequences in a similar way as it has also had consequences, that the Instructor's Commission so clearly assessed that then Minister Mrs Inger Løbberg broke the law with the illegal instruction. That is why it must also be assumed that all the parties from the left who at that time stated that Mrs Inger Løjberg was to be held liable in an impeachment case have similar rights with the Prime Minister. Because you can't imagine that it's the party color that determines whether you're being impeached? In relation to the citizen's proposal that we are discussing today, we have conservative sympathy for the proposal. We understand both the anger and the rage that an entire profession has been killed. With the knowledge that we have from the political point of view of the whole mink case, it is to be expected that violations of law and of the constitution have indeed been committed. On Sunday, November 8, 2020 we were met with information from the government that there was no legal basis for ordering all mink to be killed. And despite the fact that there was no legal basis, the government continued the illegal killing, and the Prime Minister did not stop the killings. It was a violation of law which later turned out to be quite unnecessary, where the Prime Minister and the government acted in something that could almost be described as panic, and completely atypical without including the Folketing in this violent decision, which, as you know, cost a whole profession life, and which amounts to over 19 billion. kr. in compensation for the mink industry. Because there did not prove to be the risk of infection from the minks, which formed the whole basis of panic. The Minister of Health was not able to verify the spectacular risk assessment of the Statens Serum Institute, which pointed out a risk that Denmark could potentially develop into a brand new Wuhan. It has since emerged that before the press conference on 4 November, the University of Copenhagen had avoided SSI's gloomy conclusion and thus disagreed with the horror scenario that was drawn. However, the government deliberately failed to verify SSI's conclusion, and since then the government has also been extremely scarce with information and documents, so journalists have had to wait for months for access. If we now choose to support the motion for a resolution, it is because we have a clear political expectation that in a year's time there will be a clear legal basis to show that there has been a violation of the law. That is why it would be quite strange to vote against such a motion for a resolution. We have been elected to conduct politics on the basis of our convictions, and this is our conviction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161743	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161748	I have to say, as I said to the Left, that I am somewhat stunned that it is now coming out that the Left and now also Conservatives will support this citizens' proposal. We have spent a great deal of time together over the last few years on this research work and so on, and all these arguments are now falling away, all this work does not matter, since we are going to support an impeachment on the basis of a citizen's proposal. I simply do not understand the argument that it is not legally binding. If there is a majority in the Folketing for an impeachment, it does not matter whether it is a citizen's proposal or whether it is on a napkin that has flown down from the audience or what it is, because then there will be an impeachment. So can Conservatives try to elaborate on whether there is any historical parallel to Conservatives having supported something so big without looking at things in depth first?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161847	Well, sir. Jeppe Bruus has said on several occasions, also to the rapporteur of the Left, that we are going into this without having a knowledge and without looking into things in depth. It is quite clear that there was no legal basis, that there was no basis for ordering the killing of all the minks, as well as maintaining the illegal order in the next few days. That is why, in our optics and in purely political terms, there is already a clear basis for this, and as politicians we are elected to take decisions and to exercise and demonstrate our political positions, and this is why we are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161937	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422161939	It is true that here in the Folketing we make our positions and our political statements, and in the end we vote as legislators, and the moment we vote, the political statements become binding. And if there is a majority here who will vote in favour of an impeachment, and that is what one must understand the Left and Conservatives are ready to do on the basis of a citizens' proposal without any prior Commission studies or anything else, then all that, in fact, has been quite a part of the whole foundation for making a new parliamentary inquiry and all sorts of other things, will fall away now. I have to say, I'm very stunned that Conservatives have changed this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162023	But there is no shadow of doubt in our minds that there has been breaches of law and of the constitution. These are quite serious matters we are talking about. And if, just a few months ago, we decided to make an impeachment case on the basis of a Commission investigation with a subsequent lawyer's assessment, we would have had to wait and see what that Commission investigation found. And it found out that there had been lawbreaking. So here we stand on the view that we clearly have the political view that there has been a breach of law, and so it seems strange to vote against such a political motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162109	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162111	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Now I am not a believer myself, but I have read in an old book that there is a place that sometimes it can be easier to see the splinter in the brother's eye than the beam in your own. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not a little paradoxical that he has now brought an impeachment against a minister who, incidentally, belonged to a government in which the Conservative People's Party participated. The Conservative People's Party did not do anything about that when one sat in government while the deed, if it were to be said, was taking place. But now we are willing to raise an impeachment case, even though we have set up a committee of inquiry which has been voted by a large majority in the Danish Parliament for both parties from the opposition and parties which are supporting parties for the government. So it seems a little paradoxical, and one could then say: why should we raise an impeachment case now, when we have a committee of inquiry into this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162215-2	I'm just gonna have to correct sir. Peder Hvelplund's historical memory. For it is not true that Conservatives sat in government while the crime took place; Conservatives came into government afterwards. And we believed and accepted the explanation of the minister then. And as it turns out, after a Commission study has been completed, that there is a basis and that there has been a breach of law, then we take the natural consequence. So it can be said that there is a completely unique connection between what we did in government and what we did subsequently here in opposition, both with the Instructor's Commission and also with the mink case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162304	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162305	Well, then I have to ask what kind of explanation Conservatives believed in. After all, there were many different explanations from Mrs Inger Løjberg, and that was among other things. That was the reason why we had to go through numerous consultations and when it was also made clear time and again that all the different explanations could not all be right. And that is also what has been achieved in relation to the fact that an impeachment is now being raised. So it is going to sound a little hollow if it is the case that at that time, when you could see that there were many different explanations, you said: there is no need to carry out further investigations, because we are the support party of the government in which the minister is sitting. And so today it is said that we are not even prepared to wait for the investigation of a committee of inquiry. And I fully understand that when we get the result of it, we will have to assess what will happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162347-2	And it will be just as interesting to follow whether Enhedslisten actually follows its own principles, or whether you are again beaten in place and end up following what the government prescribes. But it is therefore completely as I described in a previous case here today that we asked Mrs Inger Løjberg, Minister at that time, if there was anything to come for, and we got the very clear answer that it was not there. And that's what we took for good goods. Now we can see that the entire media picture has coiled, how there has been a violation of law and how there was no legal basis. Therefore, there is no doubt in our minds that this must lead to impeachment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162432	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we are ready to move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the New Citizens' rapporteur, Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162455	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. A search commission related to the minkskandalen was set up in the autumn. In New Citizens we would otherwise like the Prime Minister to be put before an impeachment now, but a majority in the Folketing wanted it to be different. In New Citizens we are now looking forward to the Commission making an assessment of this possible breach of the constitution in connection with the destruction of an entire mink business. But how and why has it come here? How was it possible for us to come here, where power might put a law for itself and another law for everyone else? A food minister has resigned on the basis of the minkskandalen, and a new one has been appointed to clean up or dig up, one may be tempted to say 'because the mink killed has subsequently been buried, yes, illegally to the potential damage to the surrounding environment. The PM says she didn't know anything about anything. The Commission must then decide whether or not it is the truth. A possible constitutional breach of a prime minister and her government is categorized by themselves as a mistake. We'll just fix it with a new law next month, maybe. Is that democracy? Is that respect for the rule of the people? We do not think so in New Citizens, because then we no longer have the rule of the people, so stays and the law is put out of hand. The freedom of the Danes is based on trust, trust in the law, trust in the politicians, trust in the authorities. Therefore, it has also been an enormously hard blow to experience the minkskandalen at close range. With one blow, power became more important than law. From one day to the next, the elite of power, the government, took the break out of the mouths of thousands of families. Remember: Minkers are not just figures in an excelark; they are not just good taxpayers; they are real people who have now lost their life's work. Generations' build-up of values and knowledge of mink breeding is now being lost. When I stand here today reading the citizens' bill of impeachment for the Prime Minister of the country now, I understand the anger. I feel the injustice which the proposers feel has been committed against them by the Prime Minister back in November. We cannot revive the culled breeding animals of the mink, but the voices of the proposers must be heard today. The voices of productive Denmark are thus represented in New Citizens today. The creative voice of Denmark must be heard and respected today, and New Citizens can therefore support motion for a resolution B 162. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162736	Thank you. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422162754	Thank you. We support the citizens' proposal to appeal to the Prime Minister for impeachment because of her handling of the mink industry in Denmark. We are also in the majority who want to launch a survey because that is what was the majority in the Danish Parliament. But if it had been up to us, we would have gone straight to the Court of Justice, because there is no need to investigate so much in this matter. The violation is acknowledged. As recently as then, the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Jeppe Bruus, standing here on the platform, said: Yes, we got to kill a profession without being allowed to do so. What the Prime Minister calls a legal home is another word for it simply to be illegal what you do, because a government must not go out to do such things without the Folketing having granted a right to do so. It is not the government that decides in Denmark that decides in The government governs on the basis of the laws given by the Folketing, and there is no law allowing the government to overthrow the mink industry. That is why it was illegal. The government has acknowledged this on several occasions, and it is therefore quite unnecessary that we should investigate whether there has been a violation of the law. Mr. Jeppe Bruus confirmed as late as an hour ago here from the platform. There's been an illegal incident. Sir. Jeppe Bruus calls it a mistake. When you look down in the papers, you can see that it was completely conscious. There are papers showing that the government's central ministers knew that there was no right to do this. It has been discussed in the government committees, where several ministers have been sitting with several of the ministers who later sit on the Coordination Committee and take the decision there. When a minister gets such a paper in advance in a meeting of a government committee, the Minister is asked to indicate that the minister has seen the paper and approved the paper before the meeting. I've tried it myself. All papers relevant to the meeting in which the Minister is to attend come up for approval by the Minister, and the Minister then prints the paper approved, and then goes to the meeting. So the ministers have pressed for paperwork stating that there is no legal basis for knocking down the whole mink business. And then they claimed that, when they sat on the Coordination Committee and made that decision with the Prime Minister at the end of the table, they did not know when they were sitting there that all the minks were to be knocked down. It was a mistake. The papers show it's not true. What we also know is that when the government realizes at some point that there is no legal basis for it that there is no law to it, that it is illegal to kill the minks, the government does not decide to stop until the law, which the government is seeking, is put in place, but you continue. If not the course in which the Prime Minister at the end of the table decides to do so here, even if there is no legal basis for it, then at least the course in which one also publicly acknowledges that one does not have a legal basis, yet continues to knock down the minks, the proof that the Prime Minister is not doing what the Prime Minister must do, namely to stop the illegal slaughter of the mink industry. The government recognizes in the press that there is no legal basis. The government tells the rapporteurs that there is no legal basis. The government is looking for a legal home, seeking support to get a legal home, and yet the government continues to knock down the mines. It's on the PM's watch. There is no doubt whatsoever that the Prime Minister has a responsibility for it to continue at that time. That is why it is quite obvious to us that the Prime Minister must be brought before an impeachment. That is why we can also support this resolution, because we know that the government has committed illegal acts and we know that the Prime Minister has a primary responsibility for this. A majority of Parliament wants to wait for the investigation, and we can do that too, but we can also decide now that what we know should lead to impeachment and that it is the Prime Minister who is one of the ministers who has to sit on the dock. That is why we are voting in favour of the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163313	Thank you. I must ask most emphatically for peace in the public gallery. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to ask those concerned to leave the room. That's it! There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163328	Many things have been said and I am also quoted for some things and so on. But if I just have to focus on one of the things that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says it's the statement that there are papers showing that the minister knew it was illegal. What are those papers, sir? Ole Birk Olesen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163354	These are papers from the government's covid-19 committee. At an early stage, you're on the government's covid-19 committee. As far as I remember, it is up to six months before the final decision is taken, or it is a few months earlier; at least it is before the final decision is taken to carry out the slaughter of the minks. There is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Food and the Minister for Finance, and there you get these papers, which state that you have no legal basis for knocking down the mines. So, as far as I remember, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Food are given the task of examining how this can be achieved. It's in the papers. However, there is no provision for the legal basis, and yet the very same ministers later sit in the coordination committee and decide that the minks should be cut, even if they have not completed the task of providing a legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163459	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163500	But that's not true. Well, then you have to present it, because it is simply not correct. At the meeting that is on 1 October, as I think it is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen refers to, it is not on the agenda at all. Then it is true that some annexes to it say that some things need to be clarified, but the interpretation given is simply not correct. It may serve a little to shed light on the whole point of this debate that we have today, that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen now stands and says: We will of course support an impeachment, because it is all fully illuminated and I know that it looks like this now. And then you stand and make one false claim after another. That is why it is headless and irresponsible that there are a number of parties that will simply vote in favour of an impeachment on the basis of a citizens' proposal, and it does not make it less irresponsible and headless that it is backed up by the Left and the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163542	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163543	We do not know what is being said at the meeting itself. There is no record so that we can see what is being said at the Covid-19 Committee meeting itself, but we can see from the papers approved by the ministers prior to the Covid-19 Committee that there is an awareness that there is no legal basis which can lead to the reduction of mines and that some of the ministers have the task of starting work to provide a legal basis. That is not the case, and yet the very same ministers later decide to put the mines down, even if they have not provided the legal basis for this to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163624	Thank you. Then I have no more sign for short remarks. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163643	Then we can move on to the next item on the agenda. I'm gonna ask the guards to step in. The meeting is suspended for a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163756	The sitting is resumed after some of those present who have spoken irregularly have left the room with the help of the parliamentary officers. The debate is open and we shall give the floor first to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422163830	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. It hardly comes as a surprise either to the proposers that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution on a law on prosperity, which sets a concrete statutory target for the growth of structural GDP in the private sector and subordinates all political decisions to such an objective. For the government, it is essential also to be able to take fair and reasonable account of economic policy. For example: that public expenditure can keep up when there are more children and older people and that there may be a right to early retirement for people with many years in the labour market. And it is equally fundamental for the government that the public and private sectors are not opposites, but one another's prerequisites. I think the current corona crisis has demonstrated this in full. Having said that, it is good that we are having a debate here today on how to create growth and development in our society. That is, of course, relevant. At the moment, it seems even more important, if possible, because we are currently in a global economic crisis. But at the same time as we fight the crisis in the short term, we must not forget to raise our eyes and see how we make Denmark stronger in the long run. This is absolutely crucial for the government, and that is why we have also taken a number of initiatives which I look forward to discussing with the parties. During the corona crisis, the Danish economy has experienced a significant setback. The latest figures from Statistics Denmark showed that our bnp fell by 2.7%. in 2020. It's a fall that can be felt. But fortunately, it is not as violent as we initially feared it might be. Nor is it as significant as what we have seen in many other countries. Ever since the corona crisis hit us last year, the government has had a main focus in economic policy, namely to hold hands under Danish jobs and Danish companies and to bring Denmark and the Danish economy as safely through the crisis as possible. Therefore, throughout the past year, we have put in place comprehensive aid packages for companies and employees and also with significant incentives for the Danish economy. We have this in close cooperation with the social partners, but also to a large extent in a wide range of agreements here in the Danish Parliament, where the parties of the Danish Parliament have helped to take responsibility for getting Denmark out of the crisis. Thank you. The result has been a historically expansive fiscal policy by 2020 that has ensured both the Danes jobs and security, faith in the future has had better opportunities, and at the same time has paved the way for a green, fair and responsible recovery after the crisis. If we make the effort in figures, the political agreements that we concluded last year mean that we activated a total of 135 billion. kr. to support and stimulate the economy. This means that we are holding hands under about 55,000 jobs this year and 45,000 jobs in 2022. This is therefore the effect of fiscal policy on economic demand and hence on employment this year and next year. In addition, we continue to have healthy public finances and low public debt. So we have not compromised the accountability of our economic policy. But we have been navigating for an incredibly difficult time, and now we can see that much is starting to lighten. But we're still nowhere near the finish line. We are still planning to move away from the objective of balance in 2025, and we have maintained the responsible principle that new permanent expenditure must be financed with permanent revenue. Although Denmark and the Danish economy seem to be doing relatively well through the crisis compared to a number of other European countries, there is still considerable uncertainty and, unfortunately, Corona is not yet over. However, the expansive fiscal policy that we have pursued and continue to pursue has helped to reduce the economic downturn. And just as important as it now seems, the setback has not weakened the basic structures of our economy. On the contrary, the policy we have pursued through the crisis means that we have created the best possible basis for the recovery of the Danish economy to accelerate as our society reopens. While we have managed Denmark through the worst global economic crisis since the financial crisis, the government has also taken a number of steps to create a fairer society. Since the change of government in 2019, a number of measures have been implemented that have less secondary effects on the supply of work and thus structurally on bnp, positive as well as negative. The most significant was the effect of the agreement on a new entitlement to early retirement which we entered into in the autumn of last year. The new entitlement to an early pension, including the extended access to senior pensions and related financing elements, is estimated to reduce the supply of work by approx. 9,800 full-time persons in 2025. We have done this with very open eyes, because we think it is a fair and proper way to deal with the fact that there are people who have been very long in their working life in Danish society, whom we would like to give better opportunities to retire. In addition, the aim was also to ensure continued support for the political agreement, which is today the economic basis for our welfare, namely the 2006 welfare settlement, which, in a broad agreement, decided to index the lifespan of the retirement age. The welfare settlement is essential for fiscal sustainability and for the future financing of the welfare society, and it has a significant positive impact on GDP and employment. But without a scheme for the Danes who can't stand to work hard in hard physical jobs until retirement age, we could risk that the Danes' support for the welfare settlement crumbled, which would also leave a gaping gap in the Treasury and reduced growth and employment. We have addressed this challenge with the right to early retirement. In the latest medium-term projection, which we carried out with the DK2025, a green fair and responsible recovery of the Danish economy in August 2020, it is the assessment that the labour supply will increase by in the order of 10,000-15,000 people per year from 2020 to 2025, bearing in mind that there is the future development including the impact of the early retirement agreement point to a fundamentally strong economy with sound structures. This should be seen in particular in the context of the reform efforts undertaken by successive governments with the support of the Danish Parliament since the early 1990s. In addition, we have also regularly looked at structures in the labour market and in the education system to see how we can best arrange ourselves. In 2016, the former VLAK government formulated a very ambitious growth target, which is also set out in the motion for a resolution. The government's basis at that time stated that it wanted to pursue a policy to increase employment by 55,000-60,000 people in 2025 and prosperity combined with 80 billion. kr. in 2025. That was a great ambition, and it has to be said that it remained to a large extent with the fine words. The VLAK government only managed to implement measures that increased the supply of work by approx. 4,000 people, less than 10%. of the target. There are several explanations for this. One of them is that the potential for new labour supply reforms of the traditional kind is considerably smaller than in the past. The fact that we, as a government, have not set out a particular growth target for bnp, as proposed by the resolution, is not due to the fact that we have shelved the reform agenda, on the contrary. We have already announced that we will put forward proposals to deal with the weakening of the labour supply that has occurred since the government came into office, in other words, particularly as a result of the new early retirement right. In addition, we have among other things: With the establishment of the 2nd Generation Reform Commission, ambitious work was launched on a new type of reform for e.g.: to be able to cope with the problems that the last 30 years of reforms have failed to solve and where we help more Danes who are now on the periphery of our society into the labour market, where we strengthen the integration of immigrants and descendants, and where we make a determined effort to reduce the number of young people who never get an education. It's not something we can just do with grabbing solutions. Second-generation reforms therefore require thorough preparatory work. However, the potential is both great and important for both employment and the economy, for companies that gain access to a larger and also more skilled workforce, and for the individual people that this is about. This work will be an important part of the effort to get Denmark stronger out of the crisis and strengthen the Danish economy in the longer term. Finally, I would like to point out that the crisis policy pursued by the government throughout last year has not only focused on a short-term objective. On the contrary, we have used economic policy during the crisis to also invest in the long-term development of Denmark with investments in green conversion, in extra high deductions to companies for research and development, in digitalisation, in the renovation of infrastructure and in an upgrading effort for employees, so that business is best placed to seize future growth opportunities. It is all measures that restore the economy in the short term and strengthen Denmark on the long term. I hope and believe that we will see that we are now meeting brighter times, including when it comes to the Danish economy, and that when we reach next year, there will also be a great deal to rejoice about in relation to the difficult time that we are going through right now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422164933	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422164936	Now the Minister used much of his speech to talk about this exceptional situation that we are in with the covid-19, but this is, of course, a proposal which is about the structural balance and which is about the long-term. And in a large number of areas the government uses target numbers, that is to say, it speaks, for example. on a 70-percent reduction of CO2 So why is it that precisely in this area you will not use some target numbers and use them as a pointer mark and then subsequently align the legislation accordingly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165006	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165007	We simply think that it is more sensible to say that we are, of course, working hard to create growth and development in our GDP, whether there are crises or not. But it goes without saying that the year that has passed has shown what a challenge it can be to predict exactly how BTP will develop. By March last year everything looked pretty bright at least very bright in Danish economy. It is said that it was a problem in terms of starting to get enough labour. There was no sign there that a crisis would hit us with a tremendous force in a very short time. It did not hit Denmark alone; it hit the whole world. And we think that the approach we have from the government, with a series of measures where we are not just dealing with the current crisis, but investing in the future, is the wise way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165108	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165110	Well, I understand that the Minister insists on talking 2020, but when the Minister says that we had an excellent economy, I can only wonder why it was necessary to debt the citizens in order to create a financial law called 2020, which was made in 2019 before something called the Corona crisis. But there the government chose to say: No, we have to borrow, and we have to draw completely on our overdraft in relation to the budget law, so that we can make a budget stick together. So for the idea that the Danish economy is doing well, I would say: then it was not necessary to borrow, and that is the concern we have in New Citizens in relation to the growth figures we can see, and in relation to a government that pulls people out of employment instead of getting more people into employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165144	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165145	I think it is important just to maintain that Denmark has a very low debt compared to other countries and that there is so much confidence in the economic policy being pursued here. We have what is called an AAA rating, which means that we have the highest character to give to countries wishing to borrow. During this crisis, we have also pursued an expansive fiscal policy in which we have borrowed at very, very low interest rates, in some cases at minus interest rates, because things are so well under control. I think that this should be welcomed instead of the other way round in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165223	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Mogens Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165248	Thank you for that, President. Social democracy shares New Citizens' ambition for growth in Denmark. Growth is a prerequisite for jobs, prosperity and also for proper welfare. However, our welfare society with equal access to good education, healthcare, collective investment in digitisation, infrastructure and the green transition is also a prerequisite for growth. The welfare society is therefore not opposed to economic growth. This is how the Danish model is designed, and that is what I think many of us thought was one of the world's best social models when it comes to combining economic growth and equality. That is why we should not be subject to all political decisions in a rigid demand for bnp growth. This would weaken our social model and the opportunity to make fair welfare initiatives, such as: the right to early retirement, i.e. Arnepensionen, which in the calculation model costs labour supply, which, in the long term, strengthens the social model which is a prerequisite for our competitiveness on a longer scale. That is why we are opposed to the proposals of the new citizens. Having said that, the whole of our war policy, as the Minister of Finance has also stressed, is about Denmark getting through the corona crisis in the best possible way, both in terms of health and economic terms, and we look at the figures, and Denmark is actually in a good place, measured on both parameters. For the fact is that the deficit on public finances by 2020 lands a long way from the crises of the past. Bnp fell by 2.7 per cent. If we compare ourselves with most other countries, including the Nordic countries, Denmark is at the very top of the crisis, as measured by the influence of the crisis on both private consumption, the total economy and our employment, and that is very positive. This is, of course, primarily due to the Danes' extraordinary efforts to keep the infection down, but it is also due to the fact that throughout the crisis the government has focused on holding hands under Danish jobs and companies. It has not been without cost, but it has been a good business for the Danish economy because it had been more expensive not to. We would have had more unemployed and more bankruptcies and faced a major or similar debt increase if we had not acted with an expansive fiscal policy. At the same time, it is worth noting that the increase in public debt is largely attributable to the economic downturn itself and only to a lesser extent to the measures that have held their hands under the economy. So it is also difficult to spot the debt orgy that some bourgeois people have tried to address. Gross debt is 41 per cent. of bnp far from the EU limit of 60%. and significantly lower than that, for example. is the case in Germany and the Netherlands. So the government will still achieve the goal of achieving a balance in public finances by 2025 without a severe slowing down as after the financial crisis, and that is possible because the government has stuck to the principle of financing new permanent spending crowns to crowns, as we, for example, have done. has done so with the right to early retirement. And the government's investments in green conversion and digital conversion, focusing on getting more people into our working community, research and development, and a massive upgrading effort, have also added to the tracks of increased productivity and growth in the longer term. These are measures which I hope will also find broad support in the Folketing. With these comments, I must make it clear that the Social Democrats do not support the proposal, and I shall do so on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165731	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165735	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself says that growth is essential for prosperity and for welfare. So I would like to ask something: what growth rate do the rapporteur and the Social Democrats think is the right one to ensure that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165750	I can't put a specific figure on that now. It is clear, as the Minister of Finance also explained, that the government is pursuing an economic policy which enables us to properly finance our welfare society and which keeps the Danish economy healthy and in good condition. That is also what the figures say, both the current ones and the projections for the government's economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165821	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165822	I note that the Social Democratic Party does not have a position on what growth should be in private, otherwise you would have a target figure that you think it should be on in order to ensure the welfare society. That is what it is all about, in other words, that in the future we can also guarantee the welfare society, and there we can only see that if we look over a period of 100 years, we may have had a growth rate of 3%, but over the last 20 years we have had a lower growth rate, and if we continue this, other countries will overtake us and we will actually make Denmark poorer. After all, with the Finance Act 2020, this government has reduced all income groups. So the policy that the government says they are pursuing is not really the one that is being pursued, because people have been dragged out of employment and not into employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165903	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165904	I can only repeat what the figures say. This government is pursuing an economic policy that is absolutely sound and makes the Danish economy one of the best running, even after and in the middle of a corona crisis. When it comes to predicting growth rates, the questioner must agree with me that it is difficult in a free market, but we must of course ensure that we keep an economic policy that enables us to finance our welfare societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165943	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422165944	I get it, sir. Mogens Jensen, that the Social Democratic Party would like to see a growth in the economy in Denmark, but that there are also limits, because it must also be possible to pursue social democratic policies, otherwise one could just vote for this and say that we must have a high growth. But Mr. Mogens Jensen argues that there are other considerations to take into account in this society as well. It must also be possible to redistribute, there are Arnepensions and such things. That is why there are limits to how much growth social democracy can work for, if you want to pursue social democratic policies as well. You want me to understand, sir? Mr Mogens Jensen said that on some lines there is a contradiction between pursuing social democratic policies and having high growth? So we cannot have both high growth and social democratic policies, and the reason why the Social Democratic Party must vote against a high growth target is that it will prevent the social democratic policy, for example, from being pursued. Arne and his colleagues are pulling out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170047	No, the starting point for social democracy is that, as I also said at the outset, we agree with New Citizens that it is important that we have growth in our society. That is also the way in which we organise economic policy. It must help to support the growth of our businesses and to create the wealth needed to finance our welfare societies. But it's clear that we can't just untie ourselves to a rich bnp target. However, the questioner is right to say that we have other considerations to take into account, including the fact that we have to finance the welfare society that we would like to have. I think the people have an expectation of that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170130	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170131	It is only interesting because when we take the debate with the Social Democrats that social democracy policy prevents us from having as prosperous a society as we would like, it is usually said that it is not at all true that there is no contradiction between high growth and social democratic redistribution policy. But I'm glad that Mr. Mogens Jensen can at least tell the truth that it has a price to conduct social democratic redistribution policies, to get Arne out of the labour market and such things, and the price is that we will not be as prosperous a society as we could have been.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170205	I do not agree with the questioner on this. As I said, and as economic policy has been organized under the Social Democratic Party, we are making great investments to ensure that our businesses can also grow. As I also said at the outset, it is also about investing in the public sector in order to ensure research, training of labour, and what else is needed in order for our companies to actually have the best conditions for growth. So in this way, having high growth and having a strong welfare society is not one another's opposites.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170244	Then it's mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170245	Thank you. It was not really because I wanted to ask the rapporteur something, but it comes with a price if you want a welfare society. New citizens have said from Parliament's platform that 100 billion will be saved. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. Could the rapporteur not confirm that it will also come with a price if you do not have a welfare society that holds hands under those who are in difficulty; it will also come with a price if you do not have equal access to health; it will also come with a price, for example, if you shut down the job centres and shut down all these functions; it will also come with a price, for example, if you remove the sugar and there are fewer people who are training? There is also a price for Denmark if you do not have a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170325	But I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. After all, there must be respect for the fact that there are parties that want a different social model from that which we have in Denmark. After all, we have a well-founded welfare society, which stretches out a strong safety net and takes care of the weakest in our society, and which is not based on the models that I very much experience New Citizens wish to introduce, where it is based more on the fact that the individual is his own lucky blacksmith. There we have more of a strong community-based welfare society in Denmark, and I think we should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170413	Sir. René Christensen apostates. Then I have no more inscribed on short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170439	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for giving us the opportunity to have this debate. When I read the motion for a resolution, I see many things that I think are sensible and that we can also agree with. First of all, we fully share the view that we have on the importance of creating growth, because growth is the prerequisite for having a welfare society. Growth and prosperity are crucial. There must be a logical order in this context, which means that, as a society, we have to earn money before we can spend it. That, I think, is absolutely crucial to this political debate. I also think I have the same assumption as the proposers who say that here in the Folketing there are a large number of parties that are engaged in a slightly different order, a sequence that is about how to spend the money, and then you have to see how to earn it afterwards. This is also something I have seen in the past as a minister, where a large number of parties, I would say, had a black belt in spending money, but very, very bad conditions for obtaining money. Our starting point in the Left is that we must ensure that the money is there and that we also have to ensure that the money votes. But back to the proposal. After all, we think this is crucial, and that is also what I read from the authors of the proposals that the government should now help to address their growth objectives, because since the government arrived at just under two years ago, growth-creating initiatives have been very small. That, we think, is quite problematic. In fact, this has mainly been a policy which has damaged growth and prosperity in Denmark, as we have heard in the past in this Chamber. The government took over a strong Danish economy because changing governments, even blue and red, had taken a large number of reform measures, which helped to increase employment by hundreds of thousands. This has been important, and it has been necessary because increasing our total labour supply makes Denmark richer. Now we have a Social Democratic Prime Minister who has turned back. We see, of course, that this is a government which unfortunately seems to have a plan that Denmark should not be richer, a prime minister who, as the first one for decades, has made poorer. For the same reason, the Left has also taken the initiative for a question debate, which will come a little later in this Assembly, in June, when we have asked the government's Finance Minister to explain what the government's growth objective is and how the government plans to compensate for the many initiatives that have made Denmark poorer during the current government's reign. It is a debate in which I also look forward to having the opportunity to go into depth with the whole debate on growth objectives. If we then look at the overall resolution from the New Citizen, it may well be that the Left agrees with the inten tion and also thinks that it is good to have the debate, but we believe that the concrete proposal before us today has not been developed enough to provide a basis for us to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170759	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170806	Thank you. We are always happy to engage in policy development, so that the Left could make a suggestion as to how the proposal should be developed more? After all, the Left has agreed to a 70 per cent climate target, in which we will then have to find out how it is to be implemented, and it is also in this way that it is intended to set some growth targets for the private sector and then to sit down and find out how to achieve these things. So in this way it is united in line with the other things that the Left has agreed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170837	Yes, but when you look into the annex to the proposal, there are a large number of selected initiatives that you can take as a starting point and which I understand are part of the proposal, and there is an initiative here that the Left cannot support. So, I cannot support the immediate abolition of corporation tax from day one. Because what is the problem with this resolution is that there are many fine intentions, but no financial funding. And the money's gotta take care of it. That is what I argued for in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170909	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170910	Yeah, well, that's some suggestions for that. It is not something that we have chosen to do, but it is just to give some examples of what we could do. However, the whole purpose of this is precisely to set a guideline, to set targets, and then to set a target for growth in those parties, as was the case with the Climate Act, where a target of 70% had also been set. After that, the parties that can support it must sit down and find out what the tools are, and that is the premise behind this proposal. It's not that it has to be exactly that. We have just given some ideas on what it might be, but we have not adopted it at all, and it is clear that the initiatives that are coming must be followed by funding. But that is not what the proposal here is about, because it is about setting a direction for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170949	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422170950	I cannot rule that out, but for the Left, growth and welfare go hand in hand. It is not a either-or, but it is a both-and-so, and it is our approach to the discussion. We want growth in the private sector that is higher than in the public sector. Having said that, however, we also fully recognise the need to have a strong public sector in order for us to have a strong welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171011	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171025	Thank you. Now we have before us a motion for a resolution on a law of prosperity from the New Citizen, and one can then say that it is probably a proposal that deals with the economy. But you can also look at it and say that it is a proposal that deals with ideology, because I think it does more. There is no doubt that when you get out on the wings, you experience something. When you get out on the left, you see the socialists who want to overthrow society and have a completely different type of society from what we know today; you want a socialist society. When you come out and look at such a proposal as this, this is the ultraliberal society that you are looking for, that is, a model that you may know from the United States: that those who cannot stand must fall and those who cannot take care of themselves, yes, they cannot take care of themselves. That's what's in this. I have to say, then, that what is written here, namely that prosperity comes before welfare, I do not actually agree with it, because sometimes you have to invest in order to create the money. You have to do that sometimes, and you actually do that in companies. And what do we have in Denmark? Do we have large quantities of raw materials? No. Do we have large quantities of things that we can sell and that we can just pull out of the ground? No, we haven't. The only raw material we have is our population, and what have we done skillfully in Denmark for many years? We have trained our people. When you read such a proposal here, it sounds as if primary school is an expense. No, elementary school is an investment. It sounds like the education system and the su is an expense, but no, it's an investment. That's how we look at it. If you want the American model, you just have to remember that recruitment is getting much harder. There the companies cannot just make a vacancy notice, and then an engineer comes in to fill the post. A lot of them have to pay for it themselves. That is why they pay the educational institutions. They're buying their labor. They have to train it themselves because you do not have a welfare model. Business in Denmark is happy that they can recruit as they can and that they can also provide highly trained labour, and they can, because we have a welfare model. When you look at what you want to remove, you want to remove something like the approach to early retirement. In other words, the early retirement of those who expect that they may be worn out and want to insure themselves of it and go to become part of the early retirement scheme will be removed. You want to remove the green check, but who really gets it? Yes, it's the pensioners, it's the pensioners. They are the ones who have to pay for the abolition of corporation tax, for example. That is all we have to bear in mind; that is what is in the proposal. You want to cut the sugar so you can lower the corporation tax. That is what is in the proposal here. And we have seen elsewhere that jobs centres are also being completely removed. It was 12 billion. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So what kind of society are we gonna have? Yes, we will then have a society in which those who get into unemployment, those who can have a hard time and those who have not been the best in school are just lost and have to look after themselves. We do not want such a society in the Danish People's Party. The only thing we agree with is that you cannot spend money you do not have, which is why we obviously need growth. But when you can always hear new citizens talking about welfare crowns as something negative, I just have to say that we are investing in our citizens, and that is quite positive. Denmark is one of the richest countries in the world. How have we been? We have been, because we have helped each other. We have been, because the majority has also helped the minority. It's because we've been holding hands under those who've had the hardest time. That is the welfare model we have, and we must stick to it. Then we are challenged in a great many areas in relation to it, but when you see this proposal, I would say that it is like what was in the old days in SF's party programme, namely that you want to overthrow society. That is what we are proposing with the proposal that we are dealing with here, which is why we cannot, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171444	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171451	I am very pleased that we are taking this debate today, because it makes it absolutely clear that the Danish People's Party is a full-blooded socialist party when we talk about economic policy and thank you for that. Imagine that one has so little understanding of the economy that one does not know that when one actually lowers corporation tax, it will be good and good for the citizens because real wages are increasing. I can't believe you can't think that far. And when we talk about something that is extreme, the Danish People's Party has now become an extremely socialist party, which is united with SF and Enhedslisten and wants higher growth. In fact, they went to the polls to have a higher growth than the Social Democracy wanted, and they were all over the SF. My question is just: How disagrees with the Danish People's Party in 1997, which felt that corporation tax should be abolished, that registration tax should be abolished on cars and that the public sector should be smaller? Did the Danish People's Party in 1997 just make a complete mistake in everything? Because that's what they wanted back then.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171547-2	One could turn it around and ask: How much will New Citizens take from pensioners? The President of the New Citizens' Party has also been out to say that the housing allowance must be completely gone and converted into once a citizen's salary. You want to remove all the subsidies that are out there. I just want to say that if you hear this as a national pensionist, you have to be scared if New Citizens get bigger than they are today. Because what is happening then? Well, then there's nothing left for you, because then you're old, and then you're not part of the job offer. You can't contribute any more, and then you're worth nothing. For the Danish People's Party, all the Danes are worth something. Whether people are inside or outside the labour market, they are worth something and we want to invest in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171626	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171628	I just have to say that the rapporteur for the DF once again stresses that the basic economy, the macro-economics, is not understood. Because this is about making some small changes now, which in the future will make everyone richer and will just make sure that this welfare is affordable. When we get to 2050, where there are also people who have to retire, they will have an increase in prosperity of about 86,000 kroner. But if we do nothing, there will be no money for the welfare that the Danish People's Party loves to give out of. That is why we are responsible bourgeois parties that need to take initiatives to ensure that money is also put in the box, so that socialist parties like DF can stand and distribute it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171704	Yes, this year will end with early retirement. We can also see that more than 2 billion will be taken. kr. from the green cheque, i.e. the money that goes to those who have the least, namely pensioners. That is what the proposal says. These are the proposals that come from New Citizens. That is where they will be taken away; that is what it says here. We have heard from Parliament's platform that it is not very difficult to find 100 billion. kr. The 100 billion. kr. must be taken from the welfare society, in other words from the funds that are being used today to service citizens, who are being spent on education and who are being spent on those who are outside the labour market. They're the ones you want to remove. Honestly, there are some who are getting richer, but there are indeed some who are losing out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171741	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then it has been agreed internally between the parties that change in order, so that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, now comes to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422171759	Yes, thank you for that SF and Conservatives who let me come before them, even though it's their right to come before me. I have an agreement I have to make, but now I can also make a speech and make myself available for any questions that may be because you are generous. The Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of this resolution, and we will, because we think it is an important objective for Danish society to have a high growth in the economy. Very often, we do not think that this is something that, like figures, when the Folketing makes decisions. It may be that you can do something good for certain groups if you charge a tax and grant it as a subsidy, but how much harm does it do to society's economy? This must also be borne in mind when making decisions, and such a law of prosperity, as the New Citizens here propose, can help to ensure. Let me give you an example. We know that the fact that we have a high corporation tax in Denmark hampers our economic development. Figures from the Treasury show that if we now reduced corporate tax by just 1 percentage point from the current 22 per cent. At 21 per cent, it would certainly cost the Treasury 1.3 billion. kr., but society, that is, our bnp, would be 3.3 billion. kr. richer. I mean, in exchange for losing 1.3 billion. kr. in the Treasury, Danish society as a whole would be 3.3 billion. kr. richer. That shows the trade we're out in here. I mean, it's almost a story that goes to the market with a cow and then finally comes home with some rotten apples, and then the wife stands there and claps her hands and says, "How good you are, understand that we've got rotten apples, we can use them to make a porridge or something. This is done without thinking about giving a whole cow for these rotten apples; then it would probably be better if you had the cow. And in the same way it is in the economy: it is actually better that there are 3.3 billion in society. kr. more than that there are 1.3 billion. kr. in the Treasury. I think that is what we think, and it seems to be new citizens too. We would like that to be included in the decision-making process, which is why we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172024	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Now we go back to the ordinary series of rapporteurs. First, it is the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172048	Thank you. I'm going to read a speech again by Mr. Jacob Mark, who can't be here. It says this: New citizens will have made a law on prosperity with the motion for a resolution, I think it says, among other things. will mean that the public economy, laws and rules must be consistently adapted to support an ambitious growth target. In the SF, we do not want to be slaves to the neoliberal growth paradigm that we believe New Citizens are setting up by continuing with this proposal. It is a paradigm in which the only way to become richer as a society is to make reforms, where ordinary people have to keep on their pockets, where the social safety net is hollowed out, where people are treated like hamsters in a hamster wheel and where the richest are constantly getting richer, while inequality is rising in society. Denmark will become a poorer country if we follow the proposals made by New Citizens. If we lower the top tax, if we remove corporate tax, if we make graduates poorer, and if we abolish the green cheque, then the result will be that those who have the least will get even less, and those who have the most will get even more. The consequence will be that people's ability to move between social layers will be reduced. And it is the ability to move that has made Denmark so rich: It is when the son of the unskilled train to become an engineer; it is when the daughter of a single homeless mother starts a company with the support of among others. This is when the boy, without parents, starts a carpentering business after a vocational training course. These are all examples of people moving and making us richer. It is the contract we have made with each other as a society that we pay a high tax, in exchange for ensuring that all people in Denmark are educated, healthy and able to live a good life. It is in Denmark that the American dream exists. It is our strong welfare society and a good interaction between private business and the public sector that has made us rich. It is true that a very large proportion of the income increase for the poorest people in the last 100 years is also due to economic growth. However, economic growth has not come about through tax cuts and welfare reductions; on the contrary, the tax burden has increased significantly and the welfare state did not exist 100 years ago. We have built a tax-financed welfare society that promotes economic growth through education, through a health system that is significantly more effective than the US's highly privatised health system, through relatively cheap childcare provision, through investment in infrastructure, etc. It has made us rich, and then it has created human value for many people who had never had a chance without it, but if we do what New Citizens are proposing and hollow out the safety net and let the wealthiest people get out of paying, we will undermine the welfare society and what has made us richer over the years. We want to go another way than New Citizens. We want to strengthen employment and ensure that more people get to work, but we do not want to do so by cutting their safety net, but by ensuring that some of those who are today without training receive training so that they can get jobs. We want the newly unemployed who need it so that they can go into a new job. We will not accept that so many young people end up in a life of public support after primary school. We want to strengthen the working environment so that fewer people report sick and we want to do second-generation labour supply reforms that are social and that make us richer. Then we will also invest massively in the green transition. Already the windmill adventure and our great knowledge of e.g. The water environment created wealth for the Danish state. When Denmark meets our goals of reducing greenhouse gases by 70%, we will be a green pioneer country. We must export the knowledge we have about green conversion. The products we create to live up to our green ambitions, we have to make money around the world. Making the green transition is a moral necessity, but it is also an opportunity. So, of course, we must always ensure better and better conditions for all of us and for future generations, but it is the neoliberal economic paradigm that has meant in these times that future generations are in danger of becoming poorer and facing some totally incalculable problems, for example. to deal with the climate crisis. Increased prosperity must be socially and environmentally sustainable, and a one-sided focus on private bnp is simply an expression of a lack of understanding of what has made Denmark one of the best countries in the world to live in. There are also plenty of economists who in recent years have criticised bnp as a measure of how good a society is. Bnp is of course important, but it's far from the only thing, and that's why it's gonna be a no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172553	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172557	Thank you. Well, there were just so many factual errors as that, that I don't know if I can make it in one minute, but now I have to try. We can start somewhere: can the rapporteur not confirm that, when corporate tax is reduced, real wages increase? Let's start there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172613	I can't confirm anything. I don't think we should lower corporate tax. This will mean that we have less income and, when we have less income, it also means that we have fewer opportunities to provide education and secure childcare, which in turn is what ensures that people can go to work. So I can't recommend going that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172635	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172636	That's just not what the story says. Now the rapporteur says that what we have achieved in recent years has not been created by reform, but it is simply also factual nonsense. If you look at the period from 1986 to 2018, one third of the growth you have had in society is based on reforms, labour market reforms, which you have had some that the SF has not supported. And that's a total of about DKK 60,000, which means that one third of it is DKK 20,000, which is growth in GDP per year. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of the role of the social partners in the development of the labour market and in the development of the labour market. Can the rapporteur not hear that it is factually incorrect what is being said?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172712	We will probably not agree on this, and that is probably why we are in two different parties: what is it that creates growth. We believe, among other things. That such things as education mean a lot to the fact that you are well equipped to make the products of the future. It's something we can't do without. It is therefore very good that we have a system that helps young people along the way and that we do not waste any talents if it is about who can afford to pay for an education. It is such a society that we want a society in which everyone has an opportunity to get a good education and get a good life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172747	Thank you. Then I have no further brief comments to make. Don't forget to drink off. It's fine. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422172810	Thank you for the floor. The proposal here from New Citizens requires the government to put forward legislative proposals which oblige the government to legislate according to principles which alone govern the prosperity of the Danish economy. To be honest, I can really understand why we are going to deal with this proposal today. Because when you look at much of the policy pursued by the government, you can be in doubt about whether the government is really making any sense of growth at all. For example, the so-called Arnepension has been created, which in fact has the consequence of reducing the supply of work in Denmark. The CEPOS has shown in an inventory that the government has made 35 tax increases, and many of these tax increases affect, inter alia, our business as a wet cloth in the head. It is not exactly what benefits growth, nor is it what is needed at this time. Most recently it was reported in the Stock Exchange that the tax minister plans to increase the tax on equity holdings and in Danish investment funds due to an EU judgment that dictates a uniform taxation of Danish and foreign investment funds. This is really a very good example of the thinking of the government, because one could also consider the solution of lowering the tax on foreign investment funds instead. That said, Conservatives believe that the right way forward is for us to regulate according to common sense. Common sense does not necessarily have to be enshrined in law. We ourselves have followed common sense when we have been in government without the need to put it into law. And it would then be desirable for the Social Democrats to follow the same common sense. For this reason we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support this resolution, but we understand the intention of the proposal. At the same time, it has also been pointed out in the course of the debate that objectives could be set, binding targets for growth instead of, perhaps even a little, as is done in the climate area, and that is certainly an exciting idea. And then we very much agree that there is a need for the Socialist Government to start focusing on growth in Denmark instead of the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173016	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173021	I would say that I simply do not understand Conservatives' opposition to this. This is about ensuring growth in the private sector, and it is about ensuring that people in this Parliament not only spend the money, but also concentrate on how they should be served. It's just about setting some goals out there. It's not retail management. It is exactly the same as you, for example. did with the climate objective, which Conservatives supported. There was no problem with going in and setting an objective and then aiming for it and then trying to make legislation to ensure that one achieves that objective. This is precisely what this resolution is about, namely that we set a percentage target requirement and then start to set the legislation in order to aim for that objective, just as we will be doing with regard to the climate objectives, where we have set a target and subsequently produce legislation to get one there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173112	Yes, but there you have to do something about yourself if this is not going to lead to more bureaucracy. We could have a concern about that. And let it be quite clear: we already have a very, very large list of laws, and there is a lot of legislation, so there is hardly any need for another law just to ensure common sense when making legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173141	Wow. Is Conservatives refusing to set a growth target and a growth agenda against the background of what it means in terms of bureaucracy and administration to set targets? There is probably the slightest excuse I have heard for not supporting a proposal. We are pointing, for example. That you can lower or eliminate corporate tax and that you can remove top tax, that is, a large number of labour market reforms that you can implement labour market reforms that Conservatives themselves have supported and have themselves made. But now they say: no, this setting a target of how high growth should be will be too bureaucratic and administratively heavy. Oh, my God! Do you think the same is true of public growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173215	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173218	I can only say very briefly that it has always been a priority for the Conservative People's Party not to create unnecessary bureaucracy. The fact that New Citizens do not feel the same way is then just New Citizen's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173230	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173259	Oh, my God! Following today's debate in Parliament, I am really, really pleased that New Citizens have tabled this motion for a resolution. It is a motion for a resolution which is about Parliament starting to change its focus. From always having a focus on how to distribute the money and be the happy giver, the Folketing must now also focus on how the money actually comes in, how we ensure that there is a well-run and good business out there that has a framework so that they can make money so that we can run the welfare society. And economic growth is the key to prosperity and is the key to prosperity. That's the way it is. We therefore believe that it is absolutely essential that we start to have a different approach to the economy in Denmark. And after this debate today, it is quite clear that a majority in the Folketing would much rather spend time and energy redistributing in society than on how we can create growth, so that we can also finance the welfare societies of the future. I would have hoped that parties such as the Left and the Conservatives could see themselves in an agenda that is about setting targets for growth. But no, in their world they would rather set targets for what taxes should be on cigarettes and that there should be some climate objectives, because there is no objection to setting targets. But when it comes to securing the private, you're not willing to. I understand that the Socialists do not want this agenda, because they have never ever cared about it here, and when it is so clearly so, and when we hear from the platform that you do not understand basic basic economic things and simply do not recognise that lowering corporate tax creates higher real wages, it is God helping me uphill. Parties which in the past have actually had a sensible policy in this area, parties such as the Danish People's Party, now fall out as full-blooded socialists, who will in no way take responsibility for the fact that we have a welfare society also for future generations. Surely there is no party that has taken a larger turn of 180 degrees, and I have to say that I liked the Danish People's Party much better in 1997 because our dear President was responsible for the removal of corporate tax, removing the registration tax on cars where it was believed that the public sector should be smaller. Then one had an understanding of what created the welfare of society, what created the prosperity of society. But no, not anymore. Then why is it that such a law of prosperity is absolutely central? It is because we can see that if we do not, we will be poorer than we could have been and we can see that other countries are overtaking us. And it matters. And I understand that some may ask what that means in the short term. It may not mean much, but it does in the long term. And when we sow a little frog now, in the future it will turn into a big tree. You can just look at that from a historical point of view. If you go back to 1986 and until 2018, you can see what would have happened if you had not implemented some of the labour market reforms that you have implemented: shortening the benefit period from 7 to 4 years and later to 2 years; the former Social Democratic government made some sensible steps by lowering corporate tax because you knew that it would benefit the Danish economy; and you raised the ceiling for when to pay top tax, supported by the left, by the SF. These were sensible measures because they knew that they would benefit the Danish economy in the long term. And because of the reforms you made, what you call bnp per capita was DKK 60,000. bigger in 2018, than it would otherwise have been if you hadn't done these reforms and if you hadn't done anything. When we look into the future, we look at the same thing. So a small change will now become a big change if we look forward to the year 2050, for then there will be a rise in prosperity per year. A citizen of 86,000 kroner, for example. growth increased by 0.5%. So it matters when the Folketing in here will not go down the path that is about creating wealth out there, but only wants to spend the money that comes in, and unfortunately also in a situation where we then choose to debt Denmark. That is why this is an important agenda, and that is why I am confirmed in this debate we have had today that there is a need for a completely new way of dealing with it, and I understand that there may be problems out there in the Danish business community, because we are being burdened, both the Danish business community and we as citizens, with the world's highest tax burden. The world's highest tax burden! And God help me, there are parties here who will accuse a party like New Citizens...
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173853	You don't invoke the higher powers. Now is the second time that the rapporteur has said so, so I am going to intervene. I overheard it the first time. Lars Boje Mathiesen I am very sorry).
ParlaMint-DK_20210422173900	There are parties that blame New Citizens for being extreme. But what we have now is extreme. Having the highest tax burden in the world is extreme. Unfortunately, this made all income groups in Denmark poorer with the Finance Act 2020, but it also means that in the long term other countries will overtake us, and it will put themselves in the prosperity and welfare that we all want. Because on the horizon it will not be possible to afford that welfare if it is not the case that we also ensure that there is that growth and prosperity, and that is why it is awfully short-sighted and terribly selfish when the parties only focus on redistributing and giving more and not creating growth, which I hear widely from the parties of the Folketing today, because then they simply do not take responsibility for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174018	Thank you. There are no comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174032	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174053	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Now we have to deal with a motion for a resolution from the SF, which is about limiting the period for sending digital mail from public senders, so that citizens can only receive enquiries on weekdays, from Monday kl. 08:00 till Friday at 8:00. 10:00. The reason for the proposal is several examples in which mentally vulnerable citizens have become insecure or have even experienced a worsening of their illness because they have received post from the public authorities at odd times. There are, for example: have been cases with vulnerable citizens who have received a digital decision on Friday afternoon or Christmas Eve, and then it may be a long time before the citizen can get the help and guidance that is needed. I would like to start by saying that the government shares the intentions behind the resolution. It is important that we take account of citizens, including vulnerable citizens, when sending out public mail. We must take this seriously. Therefore, public senders should make an extra effort when sending digital mail to citizens, but to impose a bureaucratic and technical restriction on the postal system providing the messages, however, the government does not think the right way to take action, because there are actually good opportunities to address the problems within the already existing framework. Firstly, the case officers who send the messages can be better able to use their insight into the individual situation of the individual citizen. They know the citizens and know when to pay particular attention. At the same time, we must ensure that the case workers have some good guidelines to lean on. In other words, it should not be the technique that controls when messages are delivered. Secondly, we must focus on a general increase in digital content and appropriate use when public digital mail is broadcast. It is also my impression that this is something that is high on the agenda of the authorities, but I am sure that you can be even better. Several local initiatives have already been launched to ensure that public mail is sent with due consideration. Thirdly, the technical function which can contribute to a more considerate broadcasting practice is already present in the digital mail solutions. The public senders are themselves masters of the time of shipment and can also time shift delivery for up to 5 days if you want to avoid weekends and public holidays. For the individual citizen, it is also possible today to opt out of warning in the evening and at night, and in the upcoming digital mail solution no text messages are sent late. Having said that, the government's position is that the state should not regulate when the citizen is given the opportunity to read his own digital mail. If we were centrally to block digital mail for 3 out of the seven days of the week as well as on public holidays, a huge amount of detailed regulation and exceptions would be needed. An example would be that a Christmas Eve placed in this context unfortunately in the middle of the week could result in that digital mail could not be delivered for several days. We run the risk of creating a rigid system which prevents the authorities from acting flexibly in situations requiring rapid action. We do, for example. needed during the coronapandemic. In the extreme, it may be related to the safety, welfare and health of the citizen that a communication arrives quickly. Furthermore, it would be inappropriate to limit the period of mail delivery for all Danes, as a large majority, about four fifths, has indicated in studies to be satisfied with receiving mail as it happens today. I also believe that the municipalities appreciate being able to establish their own guidelines without being subject to a central transit regime. So, in other words, the government shares the wish that, when we send out digital mail, we also pay attention to the recipient, and if it is people with particular vulnerability that you have it in mind from the public side, but we do not believe that the paths that the SF wants to take here and which, in our view, will mean a rather bureaucratic and very little flexible approach to sending electronic mail to all citizens are the right way to go. I also think that we have learned from the Corona crisis that it is very, very important that people can get in touch quickly and effectively if needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174548	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174550	It becomes clear that there are a number of good local initiatives going on around the city council and some municipal councils after this debate has escalated over recent months. I am also fully aware of the danger that there may be detailed regulation and that it is actually making it difficult for a good cause in some places. So I am aware that there may be some pitfalls, including in this proposal. What we are so interested in here is talking about something that may well be seen as a small corner, but which actually addresses the fundamentals, namely who is for whom. So, is the citizen for the system, or is the system for the citizen? Now I hear some local people say it's not that simple. I stand here with the attitude that the administration has given to the committee in Odense, and there is the recommendation to their committees that would like to change it here: it is not possible to decide that mail should not be sent for a certain period of time, as this would be contrary to individual provisions of the legislation. For example, decisions will only take effect when the citizen has received the decision. Here they feel, like, a little shoved back by the fact that there are individual elements in the legislation that prevent them from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174657	The short thing is that, on the question of who is for whom, hopefully, none of us should have any doubt that the authorities are there for the citizens, and not the other way around. However, it is also important for the authorities to try to provide the citizens with the best possible service and service. In the case of a great many citizens, we would like to have the information and requests that may be from the public sector as soon as possible. Then there may be citizens who have a vulnerability that requires special attention here, and I call for that to be looked at locally. I do not know the concrete example of Odense, but I would suggest that it be included in the committee's proceedings, and we will of course answer what may be of questions there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174752	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174753	I fully believe that the Minister of Finance believes that the system should, of course, exist for the citizens. This is just not always the way people see it. Another point in this recommendation from the administration to the committee in Odense is as a follow-up to what I have just read out: In the same way, the proposal is the local proposal to refrain from sending out mail for a certain period of time. This will require a relaxation of the law, which gives specific citizens the right not to have to be available for certain periods of time. When you read this, you're left with the feeling that it's the citizens who are supposed to be dolls in public theatre, and it's not sustainable. Most people can easily manage to get an email at a strange time, but there are a number of vulnerable and sick citizens who simply get scared when they get something like that and do not know how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174844	I think it sounds as if there is a good opportunity for the committee to deal with the issues raised in the letter from Odense Municipality to which reference is made. The short thing is that whether we are talking about the state, about our municipalities or about the regions, people are there for the citizens. After all, the communication and the post you send is given in order to give citizens the opportunity, if it is in the health sector, to receive the best possible treatment and, if it is in other parts of the public sector, to obtain the information they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174925	Thank you, Minister. There are no further comments. Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422174943	Thank you. In Denmark, we have made a great deal of progress when it comes to the digitisation of the public sector, including in terms of sending digital mail. Thanks to SF for focusing on an important part of communication between citizens and public Denmark. The proposal highlights some very important points, namely when to send out which messages to whom. Some messages can be estimated to be of a practical and formal nature, e.g. changes in the date of waste collection, while other messages may be of great personal and economic importance; this may include expropriation, notification of refusal of a public service or announcement of offers of space at a special school. And, of course, it is not appropriate to send an e-mail to a mentally vulnerable person at the beginning of a weekend with a message that you, for example, should be sent. shall be refused a support contact person if there is no possibility of personal follow-up immediately thereafter. But in many other cases, for example, it reaches. If there is a notice of a place in a nursing home or an offer of a place in a special school, it may actually be a good time for it to be sent at, as well as to feel by agreement, so that you can turn the content with the family over the weekend. In my optics, it is simply really, really good administrative practice to assess how and when to communicate with a citizen about what. It is only in the interests of the municipalities to communicate at the right time and place, and as a municipal leader said to me last week: well, we think about this particularly in those cases where there is something at stake for the individual, because it does not benefit the citizen or the subsequent cooperation and the case-law if you get off to a wrong start. It is also the view of the Social Democrats that public institutions are generally aware of the value of communicating at the right time and place. But of course we can all get better, and I cannot deny that there are municipalities and institutions that have forgotten the three h's in a hurry: who, what and when. However, in the Social Democratic Party we do not consider that a rule from Christiansborg about when the municipalities must send out mail to the citizens is the right way to go. There are plenty of situations where getting an inventory up to a weekend can be good, and it is not something we can decide here from Christiansborg; it is only the individual institution or employee who, in agreement with the citizen or with the good knowledge of the family, can make that assessment. Often an email will also be sent after a previous phone call and a conversation that there is now an email coming. I also believe that we in the Parliamentary Chamber and virtually all parties at Christiansborg agree that we must debureaucratise the public sector and allow room for professionalism and more presence. We have recently concluded agreements with seven municipalities to wipe the board clean in certain disciplines and to organise and manage the way we create more proximity to the task solution, and I believe that will also help to raise awareness. So the time has not come for us to come up with a rule here from Christiansborg, which determines when the municipalities must send mail to their citizens. However, I thank the SF for the idea and the proposal, because it actually raises an important debate and highlights something important. We cannot support the proposal, but we look forward to following the work of the municipalities in creating more proximity, and I also look forward to the debate in committee. And then I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they cannot support the proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175255	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175256	I think Mrs Birgitte Vind's example may actually show very well how to think in the system. I'm sorry, because it's as if Mrs Birgitte Vind thinks that everyone is as we are in here, that is, people who might be able to bear an e-mail at night. Because if you are refused a place at a special school or a nursing home, which was the example that Mrs Birgitte Vind gave, then it is Mrs Birgitte Vind's first thought that you can then spend the weekend talking to your family about it. That's just not the interesting part. The interesting thing is all the people who may not be it is to prevent those people from having a really, really bad weekend when they need to talk to someone afterwards. I would just like to urge you not to think about what is good for you, what you can handle and what is good for the system, but to think about what the citizen on the other end can handle. Unfortunately, I think Mrs Birgitte Vinds missed something there, and it may well have illustrated very well what this discussion is really about: who is for whom? I think that the system should be for the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175359	Thank you. Then I haven't made myself clear enough. I have just said that there must always be a follow-up, a telephone call, that is to say that you have a contact in advance if you send out such a message. This is certainly the practice I know from the municipality that I have been working for many years. Of course, I have also just verified it today and have called around a number of different municipalities to hear how they look at this, and I can hear that it is something that is very important to them. I fully agree with the rapporteur that, of course, we should not just get such an e-mail without a warning it would not be decent, so I am in complete agreement with that. So I'm sorry if I didn't make it clear enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175439	Karsten Hønge
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175440	I would just like to confirm that I am glad that these local initiatives are under way, but one encounters this locality where they say that they cannot do so, because it is contrary to individual provisions of the law, and because it is incompatible with the citizens having to be available, and here we have a large municipality which believes that we need to change some things in here so that they can be allowed to meet the citizens. Perhaps Mrs Birgitte Vind could be involved in the fact that we in the committee will have a report or something else that will set in motion a process and clarify whether there are these obstacles and if they are there, if we can do anything to remove them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175519	Thank you. That is quite clear if there are some problems that have not been clarified. It's just my absolute impression that it's actually possible, but not all municipalities offer the opportunity to make this time setting. This is something that we cannot control from here... the municipalities themselves must make agreements with the suppliers about such a solution. In some municipalities the system is called SBSS, and in other municipalities it is called something else, and the systems that you work with buy the municipalities, and they have to be able to do something different, and you simply have to buy some things. If it turns out that there are problems with some actual legislation... that's not something I know or have heard about... then of course we should look at it, that's clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175557	Thank you for that and we shall now move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175615	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF for the proposal, which, of course, opens up an important debate on how this digital world affects us, and this is, of course, a debate that we would really like to take. Like both the Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur, we are opposed to the adoption of something as square as what has been proposed here in the motion for a resolution. We recognise that this task is important, that is to say that communication with citizens is important and that we need to think about when to communicate most appropriately, how to communicate most appropriately and also what to communicate about, and whether it is something that can be understood. We always have to do this, and we think it is very good that we are taking the debate here and sending a signal that, of course, it means something to the citizens, when and how it is communicated, and that we need to think about it. However, we believe that, in relation to what is the right communication at the right time, the decision is best taken in a decentralised manner. I mean, I think a doctor is the best person to judge whether a patient will benefit from getting an answer as soon as possible, even if it is Friday afternoon, or that, in technical management, if you find that someone is doing something illegal, for example. on a construction site, immediately can send that message out. I don't think we're gonna need detailed legislation on that square from in here. However, I agree with the signal that, as a public authority, one must of course think about and use one's professional skills, in terms of whether it is an appropriate time to send a message and also whether one writes it in an appropriate way. Part of the proposal is also that you should have a clear indication in the subject area, and then there is not least the content, which can often be very difficult to interpret for citizens when it comes from the public sector. Of course, you have to think about that. I just do not think that we can properly arrange it by making square legislation from in here. So we agree with the intention that we should focus on the fact that we communicate appropriately, and that we use digital mail and the opportunities it offers to get in touch with citizens at all possible times, appropriate. Of course, we need to think about and use it appropriately, but we do not believe that the slightly square legislation proposed by the SF here is particularly beneficial, and we believe that it will lead to some inappropriate situations and some bureaucracy that we are probably best served without.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175840	That's it. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175844	But I am certainly listening to the fact that the Left also has an objection, just as the Socialists did, in that what we have proposed seems too rigid and too square. Well, I'm on top of that in being able to navigate. What we're interested in is getting this process started in the municipalities. That's why I just want to hear sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson about whether you're willing to go into this talk about exposing whether there are these barriers, what is evidently the situation in Odense, where they say: We can't do it because of the legislation. First of all, are we prepared to find out whether there are any legal obstacles? And could one then help to adapt it where you think it needs to be changed so that we can get a process going, not a quadruple of legislation, but a process that means that we end up with what I can hear we agree on, i.e. that particularly vulnerable citizens are being shielded from e-mails at odd times?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422175936	If there are barriers which, because of the rules we have created, mean that, as the Social Democrat rapporteur, I have not come across the fact that I cannot make the communication to the citizens that you professionally think is right, then we would very much like to look at it. We would like to remove bureaucracy from the municipalities. Of course, there can be a barrier if you like. must have a stop order in connection with the construction of something that is illegal; then you have the right to be able to do so as soon as possible. Well, here you should not be able to say as a municipality: we will not tell a man that he is building something that will cost him a lot of money to tear down afterwards, because we have to wait until Monday. However, we would very much like to clarify whether there is, for example, something wrong with you. In the social field, the right solution can be found. We would very much like to enter into a dialogue on this. But as far as to say that the municipalities can be totally banned, that someone can get a message this weekend, I do not know if we will go. I do not think so, but we would like to see whether there are any barriers to what is wanted in a decentralised way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180038	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180040	It is clear, then, that there are special situations in which we cannot allow some accident to develop. I myself have been a local politician, and I have seen that we were sitting at a committee meeting at some point and simply had to send a message to a company with bids; we decided at the meeting and sent the letter along with bids, while the meeting took place to stop the accident at the company, if I may say so, because we knew that what they were doing would end up with. It was some Friday, too. So I fully agree that we should be able to do that today. However, the reason why I am a little interested in this is that there are at least municipalities who believe that there are individual provisions in the legislation that prevent them from doing so and that this will require a relaxation of legislation. So if we can have this unveiled together, then we can look at how to tailor it, because I am also not interested, if I may say so, in pushing unnecessary things over the heads of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180125	We would always like to have more knowledge of the state of affairs and also very much like to have an open dialogue with the rapporteur, as to whether it is appropriate to have some of those things looked at. So yes to that, we would very much like to, but we cannot promise anything in advance, since we are not fully aware of exactly what is meant. But we'd love to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180144	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180157	Thank you very much. We have probably all heard the stories of decisions being sent out to citizens up to a weekend or up to Christmas. For most of us, that won't be a problem. Should a call for inspection of the car or an approval of a construction application come in at 1 p.m. 23.00 Friday night, it wouldn't be so bad. But if you are mentally ill and have asked for more help or you are a cash recipient and have reduced your help and that message comes right up to Christmas Eve, it will not be a happy Christmas. That's why, of course, we have to take this seriously. This discussion has been held in many city councils: What can be done, and how can this be done? We have also had it in Assens, where I myself am on the city council, and one of the things that is quite clear to me is that this is a broader discussion than just the one about when digital mail comes out to the citizens, because it is just as much about the procedure that is in the municipality. It is a question of whether you have a guarantee of good procedures, which should in fact mean that you have of course had a hold on the citizens who have to have a decision, so that there will not be a decision at some point that is totally a surprise to the citizen, but that you have actually passed on the decision and given the citizen the opportunity to comment on it before sending out the decision. And, of course, it is important that as a municipality you also have the opportunity to control when these messages come out. It's no use, you just put them in some line, and then they come at random times. Then you can't control it. So what matters to us is that you really get a look at what it's like, you do this, what it's like for some options you have, and how we can support that you can actually do what you want. When you say in Odense that there are legal obstacles, and I have also heard that from my own municipality, that is that there is legislation that makes it impossible to do what you really want to do, we must of course look at it. If there are things that mean that you can't send anything out at the time you want to be a municipality, we have to look at it. That is why I really hope that, following on from today's debate, we can produce a report which says that, of course, we must take this problem seriously and that we must also create a system that will allow me, if I sit and wait for a building application, to have it, even if it comes at the end of Friday, because it is there, it has been dealt with, that is to say, to look individually at what it is for some matters, what is needed and what the citizen needs. It has been said earlier that the key here is probably also that you do what is good for the individual citizen, and that also means that there is space and space to do it differently, but to do it right. So I hope we can discuss this further in the committee work. I will certainly look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180430	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180432	But then I can do it quickly. I put up some questions, but I will then just sign for Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's commitment that we can jointly in committee see whether we can make a report that will enable us to have this clarified, i.e. whether there are obstacles, what kind they are, and whether they are only local or also in our legislation, and then clear it up. Because we agree on the starting point: the system exists for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180457	Well, we are in complete agreement on that. That's gotta be the point. In other words, we do not have a public system for any other reason than that we must have a good society and we must do good for the citizens who are in society, and if we can help find a way to get some stones out of the way in order to do the best we can, I see no reason not to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180515	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180529	Thank you to the forewoman for the floor. This is a very good proposal which we warmly support. Too many people go with a constant lump in their stomachs over communication with the public. If you are on sick leave, unemployed or mentally ill, you must constantly check your e-Boks for messages, and if there is suddenly an emergency report on a Saturday or a Sunday, you do not have a chance to get help from a contact person or contact the authorities if there are any questions. It's not okay, and it pushes people quite unfairly. Authorities and municipalities must do what they can to ensure better treatment and better communication to citizens, and it is quite reasonable that messages about procedures, etc. only have to come on weekdays, where people can get support and help to respond to matters, and that you get a chance to blow out just a little on weekends and holidays. I understand that there is a group of citizens around the country and in the city councils who have been working for this for a long time, and I can even understand that some of our own city roots, for example. in Odense has been working on it, but I am not quite sure if it succeeds in getting it through, but it sounds like it. And then I would say that the objections that are very, very easily could be worked into it, because of course there are situations where you have to get to someone urgently if something very special occurs, and that is also what the SF has proposed in the comments, so that it should not just be totally closed country. It may well be that there was an extraordinary vaccine that you would like to have right away, and I think you cannot find a pragmatic solution to that, so that you can get rid of all the unpleasant things and maintain the important communication that may be necessary, even on weekends. I am glad that we now have the opportunity to discuss it and I hope that there will be a majority in favour of it so that we can put it in place for the whole country. It is a question of ordinary decency and good treatment for citizens, and it should not be so difficult. I think it is some formal reservations that have been raised here, and I think we can overcome this and find a practical and pragmatic solution so that we can raise communication with our citizens in the whole country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180759	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422180827	As a member of parliament, we sometimes have to be aware that we are not overwhelmed by the desire to legislate on everything, and over the years there have been many parties that have praised the fact that we control less and that we need to be better at relying on people employed in the public sector to actually do a very good job. In the Conservative People's Party, we have basic confidence that our public employees can assess for themselves when it makes sense to send digital messages to citizens. There is therefore a need for less regulation, not more regulation. The public sector has already been severely tested by various bureaucratic procedures, and it does not need more bureaucracy. With this resolution, you take more responsibility away from the public service; you no longer trust them to be able to assess when digital mail should be sent out, and it goes without saying with common sense that you should not send digital mail with a difficult message right up to a weekend when the citizen cannot follow up with a telephone call. We in Conservatives believe that this is well known and understood both in the municipalities and in the state. We can be a little concerned that this resolution will mean unnecessary detailed management of the public sector, given a smaller problem that could be solved in many other ways than with legislation. So let us now agree to give more freedom to public servants and let us also shake hands with each other that being a legislator in this country does not necessarily mean that we have to legislate on everything. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181017	Sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181018	Well, I am quite enthusiastic about Mrs Mai Mercado's tribute to the public service and the need for more freedom and confidence in it. But that's the challenge of this. These are some of the places where it will not happen. How do we protect our citizens? So what I would like to ask Mrs Mai Mercado is, of course, whether the Conservatives will agree to clarify what obstacles there are and if there are any, that we will have them removed, so that the municipal worker can actually take into account what Mrs Mai Mercado is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181102	Well, I guess we could do that as far as we can. It may make sense to examine things, and I do not think that we should get in the way of that. However, I do not see either that we are going to vote in favour of legislation falling in the area of legislation binding the public sector to send out mail at certain times. That is what has been the great concern for us. There we just have to have confidence that we have employees both in the municipality, region and also in the state, who just think about when it is that you communicate. If this is a difficult message for the citizen, either from a hospital or from a job center, then it is a good idea not to communicate up to a holiday or up to a weekend or whatever. But on the basis of this we have the belief that it is possible to do so in the municipalities. Out there, where you communicate directly with the citizen, you can get some fine guidelines so that you do not have citizens who get difficult messages at inappropriate times.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181204	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181205	I fully agree with Mrs Mai Mercado that there is no reason to make life harder for anyone, not even public employees. I'm sure they've got a lot of trouble day-to-day work to do. So if this proposal is to be changed so that it doesn't become as square as I hear some people think it is, then it doesn't matter for SF to change it, so it's gonna be something that can really be used out there. In fact, this is about abolishing certain limitations that may appear to be necessary in order to be more eye-to-eye with the citizens. That's what was meant by it. When we can hear that we want something, but we cannot, because it requires relaxation in legislation, there is no place else to go but here and possibly to change those things in the legislation that prevent public servants from treating citizens as well as they would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181245	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181246	I think it is fine that the SF says that it should not be seen as square as it is written. To be honest, we saw it as relatively square, also in the light of the press talk that has been going on, where there has been a desire that mail should only be sent out at certain times. I'm just saying we're not in favour of that. But we are always happy to discuss whether we can make things more flexible, more flexible. But from the outset, and I now choose to stick to that, it must be with the employees and management in the front line, where you meet the citizens, that you set out guidelines on how and at what times of day, week and year you communicate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181333	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181355	Thank you. I shall start by saying that we cannot support the proposal as it stands now. We do not believe that centralist retailing of this is the right way to go. And in order to anticipate the issues that could come from the SF, I would say that if there is any legislation from in here that could remove some of the issues with which there are problems and actually provide more flexibility, let us look at it at committee reading. We can do that, but centralist retail management is not right up to the right-hand leg of the New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181422	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181438	- Pling! - Pling! The sound on your mobile captures your attention, and you can see that a new message has arrived in e-Boks. It's not so unusual that you get information from, among other things. public, but maybe you're a little stunted anyway, because it's 8:00 a.m. on a Saturday night. It may also be that an employee from SF's secretariat here at Borgen experienced: Kl. 22.00 Christmas Eve said it pling, and there was a message in e-Boks and I can already reveal that it wasn't from Santa Claus. Why on earth would a public authority send e-mails at this time? A lot of people are wondering: Can I just be free? In fact, I think that we should be allowed to do so, and that is why this proposal restricts the emissary of e-mails to the fact that, if nothing else speaks for it, it must take place within normal working hours and that, moreover, it must be stated in the subject area what this question is about, so that we can quickly get rid of ourselves, whether it is something that requires deeper consideration. In this way, the citizen will also have time to contact the sender, such as: may be a job center before closing down for the weekend. Some people react with stress, anxiety and uncertainty when official e-mails tick in at crooked times, and mentally ill people can completely lose their grip. Messages in e-Boks should be sent in time so that especially vulnerable citizens have the opportunity to contact the municipality, the job center or the usual practitioner. If you apply for early retirement and have been through the municipal twister for a very long time, there may be a great need to quickly talk to the caseworker about the content of an email. Some vulnerable people with few resources dare not open e-Boks at all in such a situation, but are stressed by the awareness that there is an unread mail. Such a person is Jonas Schmidt. He's mentally ill. I visited him where he lives in Midtfyn, where he lives with his father, because he cannot live alone. Although he is 30 years old, he is daily challenged by anxiety. Mails from the municipality pester Jonas' lives when he gets them on weekends or on public holidays. Just a summons to a meeting knocks him out completely. He reacts with anxiety attacks and panic and doesn't fall until after the weekend he gets in touch with his case worker or the general practitioner. I asked him if he couldn't just turn off that function, turn off the phone or something like that. Jonas explained that with the psychological challenges he was struggling with, he just didn't have any profit for that kind of thing. He said he couldn't play ostrich as more resourceful people could. Jonas' father confirmed how the son overturned completely several times when there were messages in e-Boks from the municipality, the job center or other authorities. Denmark is probably the world's most digitized society, and everywhere and all the time information is pushing its way into the citizens. It's as if time and normal good behavior have been lifted. Most of us can handle it easily just because we are disturbed on a Saturday night, a Sunday morning, Christmas Eve or at all other times when mails are ticking in, but no one has actually decided that our society should take such a turn; it just happened. SF would like to have a debate on this development and, in particular, on the consequences for the sick and the vulnerable. There are probably formal bureaucratic reasons why the public sends e-mails around the clock every day of the week, and it is probably also a little cheaper to spread e-mails, but it is not about what is best for the system, but what is best for citizens who have the right not to be constantly available to the authorities. The important thing for SF is to set a process in motion. Let us examine what are the limitations and how we protect vulnerable citizens. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister and thank the parties for their constructive participation in this debate. I clearly sense that we agree on the objective and the conclusion, which is trivial, but which is nevertheless so important to remind each other, namely that it is the municipalities and the job centres and the health services that are there for the citizens, and not the other way around. I would therefore very much like to suggest that we make a report so that we can at least clarify whether it is true, as they write in the recommendation from Odense Municipality, that they have limitations, even regulatory ones, and if those limitations are there, I also sense an interest in finding out if we can get rid of them. So thank you for the treatment. The SF is going to set up a meeting on matters when we have it dealt with in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181935	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210422181957	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 23 April 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00.
