ParlaMint-DK_20210416100011	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Jeppe Kofod): Motion for a resolution No. B 295 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish military contributions to the Gulf of Guinea). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210416100032	I would point out that the vote on the proposals for adoption of the eventulle is postponed until Tuesday 20 April 2021. As rapporteur for the questioners, we will now have Lotte Rod on the floor for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416100056	Thank you. The first leisure homes appeared about 100 years ago, and if you are really going to talk about what we as a country have contributed to the world, it is our junkyards where children and young people can build on their own and tear down and have this room free from adults. But in recent years something has happened and most of our leisure homes have been closed down, but in return we have had school break arrangements at school. This has happened to save money, and in some places we have also talked about wanting things to play more together, but we have talked a bit about what we are throwing away. Rabbits and bonfires are gone, and the children are in the school premises almost all day. There are not many adults, the school break scheme does not have its own premises, not its own purpose, not its own management, and the school day is so long that children are not too long to do the really good educational activities, and right now children are about to be registered out. So I think that as a country we need to re-emphasise the importance of recreational education. And we are being heard out there, because on the occasion of our debate today, a baton has started where people tell about the importance of their time in leisure education. I would like to quote the chairman of BUPL, Elisa Rimpler: I was a shy and introverted young person who in the club met a world where I was not measured. Here one didn't have to live up to being the talented and virtuous student, I just had to be with the others, and it became crucial for the rest of my life. My hope with this debate is that we can light the fire on leisure education, that together we can make 2021 the year of leisure education, and I have deliberately asked what we dream of in 10 years, so that we can learn more about each other's visions and not be limited by what might just be possible tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416100311	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. We will now ask the Minister for Children and Education to take the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416100344	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I also wish 2021 could stand in all sorts of sensible signs, and I also think that most of us had an intention of doing so, and if you could choose, by 2020 and 2021 there were so many other things that should have filled than what has come to fill, because what is filling is corona. So if you are wondering why I have not been very willing to have a discussion on this, then it is simply a question of me having a discussion here today, and I think it is a very good idea to discuss visions with each other and thus get started on it, but in terms of starting to commit ourselves at this time to when we are going to have what progress, I would just say that tonight there is a reopening agreement, fortunately with positive news for the education sector, that we are in the middle of a corona management. So, as I would like to say to Mrs Lotte Rod, we are in a situation where 2021 could become leisure education, folk schools, colleges, vocational training and so on. Years, you'll just have to say, this is at least until now the year of the corona. Therefore, it is not really a lack of will in relation to the many incredibly good things we could do with each other, but it is a matter of simply saying that the most important thing for the children now is to get through the Corona crisis, and that is what we as the main force need to do. Having said that, it must also be said that a great deal can happen in a decade, and fortunately, when we have reached a decade further, we have separated ourselves from the pandemic, moved on and is a place where a lot of hope and desires, among other things. for leisure education and all sorts of other things, some of which have actually become reality, and that we are working on some things where we are not constantly under the yoke of the pandemic. Leisure teaching provides a framework for finding communities across both social layers, cultural boundaries and what else is. It is something special that leisure education can contribute to, and on the part of the government we are convinced that some of the most powerful communities we form are the ones we form in our spare time as children. If you love skateboarding, it doesn't matter what other people's background is, as long as they love skateboarding, and when you play with others as a soccer player, you don't only play the ball to those who have the same background as yourself, and in Glee Club all voices are equally important. This means that the things we deal with in our leisure time have a special character, and that is one of the great things about the communities that children choose for themselves, namely that their starting point is another. The boundaries disappear, and friendships arise between children of very different backgrounds, because they are passionate about the same thing, whether it is skateboard, choral song, football, dance, role-playing, or whatever it is. Therefore, it is extremely important for children, but also for us as a society, that children experience that we do not have to be completely alike for having incredibly much in common with each other and in order to be able to do things together. And that's what we do as adults and as a society we work part-time, and that's why we're a society. This is what they learn when they experience that when they deal with skateboarding with each other, it is the actual event of skateboarding that binds them together. That is where they anticipate everything that happens later in life, namely that we, as people and adults, can have a fellowship with each other with everything that it entails. That is why it is also an essential part of democratic and cultural education that creates us as whole citizens, so to speak, and without it we simply lose the ability to talk to each other across layers, and the cohesion of our society is weakened. So there is no doubt at all that sport and association and leisure activities in conjunction with the school must ensure coherence and the broad education of children and young people in a broader perspective, and that is why we must also create leisure opportunities that appeal to children and that are based on their interests. Children should primarily have fun in their leisure time.That's what it's all about.They should be allowed to play, and they should have an influence on the framework around them and on the activities that are in the leisure facilities. The communities chosen by the children themselves are most often the ones they care about most, and I really think that the example of the radical rapporteur up here from the platform said a great deal about that, namely that what we are allowed to choose and what we are dealing with in our spare time is one of the things we love very much and that we must therefore use as a starting point in our meeting with the rest of the world. Motivation and joy are simply greater, and children, for example, may have professional problems at school, can have some huge success experiences in leisure offers, which then reflect on the fact that they also gain greater self-confidence in relation to what they do when they are in school. The school and leisure facilities have a shared responsibility to ensure education and well-being through a coherent effort, and in most schools where the sfo shares rooms with or lives around the door with the school, teachers and educators have good opportunities to talk about the learning and well-being and development of each child. Perhaps there I think that the radical rapporteur had a little bit of talk underneath the floorboards. In other words, I am very much in favour of the fact that there is indeed a connection, and at the same time also of the fact that the head of the school, who is responsible both for the school and for the school holiday scheme, has an opportunity to have a holistic orientation in relation to their approach to children. This is something that I very much appreciate, and not something that I think should be neglected, as I heard a little from the radical rapporteur, in other words where the fact that it is in schools is seen as a saving exercise alone. I see it as a holistic approach which has been lacking between the various things, and it is of course with respect that the various professional groups carry out the tasks they are best at. They have different strengths, and they are brought into play in conjunction with each other with the overall orientation that has been created. But we also have a major challenge, and I think that is actually the challenge I would like to draw attention to. Children from vulnerable homes are to a lesser extent enrolled in leisure facilities, even if they need a secure community in their leisure time. And, of course, it is important to stress that there are actually freeways, for the first thing that pops up in your head is that it is because you cannot afford it. We also have free space arrangements here in Denmark, but children from exposed homes are simply less inscribed, and it has been extra ugly under the corona, and it is of course deeply worrying when you do not also get that group of children into a larger community in a pedagogical framework. And that means that if I am to say what my dream is in relation to in ten years' time, it is then that those who are having a hard time at home find a secure community that gives them joy and victories, and which also gives them afternoons with the joy and with everything that comes with being in leisure offers. I believe that this is a challenge that we must address. I therefore believe that we must have a better understanding of the area than we do now. Right now there is very limited knowledge and data in this area, and that is why I am through a legislative proposal to ensure that we can collect data in the whole leisure area, as in the day-off and school area, and that is of course to create a better basis for knowing where we stand and where the shoe is pressing; what to look at. And in the short term I will launch a survey to get a current status on the content and quality of leisure offers, and of course I have also discussed the challenges here during the Corona crisis with KL and, incidentally, with all sorts of others, but now it is the municipalities that own the sfos, you can say, so there have been special discussions with KL ^ in relation to where we stand with the leisure offers in a coronatid. But I do not share Radicals' concern about the fact that there are now offers in schools rather quite the contrary, I would say. For the overall orientation that lies in the fact that the same adults • adults that you can be extremely happy about, because they primarily belong in your leisure life • also play a role in relation to the school. I think we are simply looking at this differently, and that is why I do not see the overall orientation in the same way as what was said from up here. But there can be advantages and disadvantages to the various models. I also have a home for the rest of my life. And that is also why such a good, lenient solution has been made, I think, in Copenhagen, especially where there are many leisure homes and where such an in-between model has been made. For the places that work, I think there is good reason to preserve. But it's just to say that it's just saying that because it's a sfo instead of a leisure home, it's crazy, and then it's just a saving exercise, I just don't believe in. Well, I think that a lot of kids need the extra look that is when recreational education also moves into primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101309	Thank you, Minister. One brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available. The first one's for sir. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101317	Thank you. It is true that we have been hit by corona in Danish society and that it has been important both for the government, but also for all other parties to handle it and make sure that we get through safely; but the sfos are also hard hit by corona. I think it is a week ago that both KL and BUPL were out shouting in arms and saying that the large number of resignations, particularly in the large cities, are extremely worrying and are at risk of erosion of leisure education. It's just to say that I think we have to deal with this precisely because of corona. So would I really like to hear: does the Minister recognise that there have been very large savings on the sfo's? And is it part of the minister's 10-year vision that there will be more staff per year? child and more time in the sfo for the kids?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101412	Thank you to the rapporteur. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101414	But I would actually like to say both and to the specific question of savings, because it can be said that some of the savings are simply linked to the fact that there are fewer children in the sfo's, and thus in some way it bites itself in the tail, and especially here under corona. When a lot of people resign, it will also have an impact on the economy. In fact, I am concerned about the part about many who have resigned in connection with corona, i.e. whether they will return again. And that, of course, depends very much on what it is that is why they have resigned. If this is due to coronate alone, there is a likelihood that they will return. And there it is clear that this is one of the things I have to say. also discussed with KL, because then an extra pressure has to be put on getting those who are vulnerable back in particular. So in this way it can be said that we must, of course, pay attention to what the consequences of recreational education are. I think we have had that too, that is to say, in the sense that KL raised this agenda with me, because they thought there could be a challenge in relation to leisure offers as far back as April last year. I do not remember the exact date, but it has been a long time since it was raised, and it has therefore been a recurring problem. So, of course, we have to deal with the aftermath of corona. I do not think there can be any doubt about this even in relation to leisure education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101530	Thank you. The next rapporteur, with one comment, is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101535	I think that we should separate things, because I believe that there should be educators at school, and I think that you can easily have self-serving leisure homes and that the teachers from there are also at school. One does not exclude the other. I would therefore like to be a little curious about what the Minister's vision is in the long run. I mean, where are rabbits and bicycle workshops and bonfire cabins? Hasn't anything been lost in the fact that the kids are in the school premises all day?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101605	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101607	Well, it's going to be hugely different from school to school, how you've done it. I very much appreciate overall orientation, and I can say that at least in my children's school there is still a fireplace; it is only located at the school, but is mainly used by the sfo. It's very different how you've done it around. I do not see it as a problem that it is the school premises. Well, the school's rooms are extremely suitable for children. It's a school. That is to say, I think it is very much about what you put into it. The close collaboration between educators and teachers knows that buildings are shared with each other and that the teacher also plays a role in teaching helps to give them overall orientation. It is not one of my visions that it should then be split up again, because it has to be an independent point that it has to be somewhere other than where the children go to school. I believe that a hugely good framework has been created around the sfo's very many places. This does not mean that there is it everywhere, because it is very different how you have dealt with it in the municipalities. That is, of course, what we have proposed with municipal autonomy. That was the case in the past too, and there has also been a great difference, after changes have taken place, between whether you have gone completely away from leisure homes or whether you have run a mixed model or how you have done it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101720	The next rapporteur for a brief remark is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101724	Thank you. In the Minister's speech, I attached myself to the vision and the whole idea of connecting the sfo closely with the school. And there may be a lot of good in that, but it can also present a danger if it is that the sfo is going to be so in continuation of the school, and that thus you will be dragging the learning agenda down over the sfo. So I really just want to hear the Minister how she feels about whether there should be a clear learning agenda in school, or whether there should still be the free play, where it is that you focus on the comradeship, where you focus on the movement, the social, the creative, so that the children can also develop as people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101811	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101812	Well, I definitely mean there shouldn't be a focus on the learning part of the sfo's. So when I say that holistic orientation is good, it is because, when things are going on at school, for example. If conflicts or such things have occurred during the day, there is much more direct access to each other. This means that you can better survive and better look all around the child, in terms of how it is social, how it stands on the comradeship front. So, what educational methods have been used? If, for example, is a child who puts himself in a lot, you can have a discussion with each other about what has worked at school in relation to picking up a little bit, what has worked during the sfo-time, and whether you can use some of each other's tools. I would also like to say that this cooperation in reality has also emerged in a study that VIVE carried out in 2020 • simply increases the joy of work both among teachers and educators in places where it works very well. And that makes sense because in this way you can see all around a child both in one context and in the other. Well, these are two completely different functions, and I think it is really important that educators do not teach because they are not trained for that. And, on the other hand, it is also important, when teachers are at the centre of leisure, that there should of course not be taught, because they are still not trained for that. And that is why it is something else that is absolutely central, and so must it be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101928	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416101932	As has already been mentioned, there is, after all, a major problem with many children being reported out of school freetime schemes. And when we're talking about having a dream about the area, at least that's what's asked about • Wouldn't it be a dream that the school break arrangements were an offer to all children? And does the Minister not consider that the very high level of parental pay is a barrier in this regard? And wasn't it soon time we introduced a ceiling on parental pay in the sfo's?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102004	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102006	I mean, I would say that I think it is extremely important that there should be free zones. Then we were faced with a situation where there were no freeways, I think we would be fighting a joint struggle to get free places. So, for me, it is vitally important that it is precisely an offer that everyone has the opportunity to get, and that is why the freeways are there. In relation to the participation fee, the government does not immediately plan to go in and look at it with the level it has today. And I would say that, as far as the economy of most families is concerned, it happens that you go from having a child in a crèche and it is expensive to have a child in kindergarten, which is also relatively expensive, and to having a child in leisure facilities. It is actually a financial relief when children start school because leisure offers are cheaper than both day nurseries and kindergartens. So I do not actually recognise that this may be where we have the biggest problem, precisely because there are free places and because the economy of families makes it easier when children start school. But for me it is absolutely important that there is an offer that everyone can accept. I would say, however, that I do not necessarily have a position that one hundred percent of children should go to sfo and later to club. So, because this is a leisure offer, and that means that if you would rather go to football, or you need to rest your ears when you finish school, and there are opportunities for it at home, then I think it's fine that you go home and relax and show up at school the next day. So what's good about leisure offers is that it's an offer in contrast to the school. So I think we should be very careful if we start to make it the kind of thing where we want everyone to have to
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102142	The next one is sir. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102146	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. It is true that some of what we have to do has to be done right now because of corona, and we are in full swing with that. And some of what we have to do in this area must also be done in the longer term. I think that this is also about education and, as far as I remember, we are looking at a revision of the teaching programme. I know that it is not the minister's resort, but that is why I think perhaps the Minister could take a position on some of this. And when I read what some educators say when they are asked what they then met on the education in relation to leisure education, it turns out that it was very little. Does the Minister also believe that there may be a neglected corner in the training of educators and that there should be a greater focus on leisure education?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102235	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102237	Yes, I will simply allow myself to respect the division of labour. And it is my very good colleague, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen, who is Minister for Education and Research. And I don't think it should fall into my lot to stand and speak on her behalf. So it's a very good discussion and a very important discussion. Besides, it is also in relation to teacher training. And that is why the close cooperation I have with my colleague is, of course, also crucial, not least because teacher training is linked to primary school, and because educator education and leisure education do so with the day institutions and the sfo's. But I think it must fall into her lot to answer the parts that are about her territory.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102312	Thank you. There are no more rapporteurs who have signed up for a brief comment this time round, so we now move on to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416102404	In my childhood in Aabenraa, we had the most beautiful leisure home. There was a bicycle workshop, there were turtles, there was a cable car, and there was even such a half a landlady ferry that you could crawl around on, and there were rabbits. And if you were in the rabbit group, you had to come in shifts this weekend to feed the canteens. We built puppets, we swapped hen rings, and we spent hours in the pillow compartment jumping down from the windowill and telling secrets. And it was really just our leisure home. Today most of our leisure homes have been closed down and children are in sfo's. Children's everyday life today is very organized and planned. There are many demands and goals, there are long school days, and many children either go to leisure activities or go home after school. We have a generation that is incredibly committed, but also very vulnerable. I am afraid that this is due to the fact that that room where there was risky, dangerous play is greatly restricted. Children do not learn to try and feel themselves and overcome fear. Nor do they have the place where they can learn to organize themselves where there are no adults who constantly set demands and goals for them. I believe we need recreational education as the street of today's childhood. For recreational education creates a space free from adult determination, where children practice mastering life on their own terms. Here is a space where you don't have to live up to other people's goals, but you can do what you want to do. As a recent educator wrote to me, and I quote: the pedagogues are not going to achieve anything specific with the children. We have time to meet the children where they are, listen to them and give them room to be themselves. Why is this important? The research says that the leisure institutions are not as structured by adults as the school is, and at the same time they are not as clear as the homes are. Therefore, children and young people themselves will have to find their way in the opportunities. Leisure education can play an important role for those children and young people who find it difficult at school because leisure education is based on tasks and activities that promote the participation of children and young people, because they are organised on the basis of something that children or young people are interested in and can be together. Pedagogues play an important role in making it easy for children in vulnerable positions to find their way into the communities because they help to communicate the rules and standards that exist. If a child does not know the rules and standards, it is difficult to be able to participate. Pedagogues can also support children who find it difficult to get started with a game or need help to be kept in play. And in leisure education you get the chance to be together across age and thus the development that is in that you as one of the younger ones have some to look up to, or you as one of the older ones can help. So leisure education is at once speechless and speechless. This is where we can be who we are and who we want to be. And that's why I'm thinking that we have two tasks in here to reenchant recreational education. First of all, we must again attach value to recreational education itself. Parents need to know that it is important for their children to be there and, as a society, we need to think it is important. Secondly, we must ensure a proper framework. I dream about the big package: I would like all children in Denmark to go to sfo and club as naturally as you go to school, and that school day was so short that you had time to do good activities in leisure education. For me, leisure education is just as important in children's lives as the school is, and I actually believe that the answer to much of what we are discussing here about the school is actually in leisure education. Therefore, I would like us to look both at the fact that leisure education should have its own purpose, its own management, its own premises, and that there should be enough adults. Parental payments must be reasonable. We need good education and we also need research which takes recreational education seriously in its own right. I know it's pretty crazy. These are quite big plans, and it also costs a lot of money, and we are not going to do it all at once. So my hope is that with the broad proposal for adoption, which I can read aloud in a moment, and I am simply so glad that there are so many parties behind it that can take the first step to discuss what is important and what is most important we do first. Because you might think that recreational education is just a small corner, but for the children it is huge, and for me it also says something about who we are as a country. So on behalf of the Left, the SF, Radicals, Enhedslisten, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance, Free Greens and the Alternative, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption: Leisure education must again be in its own right and not just be something that comes after school. Children need a sanctuary where they don't have to perform. Where they can play and experiment. Leisure education is today's childhood street, where children can do whatever they want and where there are educational staff to help children into the game and open new paths in the game. In recreational education, children can practice mastering life. They must not meet the demands and goals of adults. This makes recreational education more free than school and organized leisure activities. At the same time, recreational education is more incalculable than the family. There are many friends to relate to and many activities you can engage in. Here children learn to organize and be with others. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to call the parties for discussions on recreational education by the beginning of September at the latest. • V 110).
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103048	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103054	Thank you for a very good speech and for the initiative. The rapporteur is very good at dreaming and describing his dreams. Some politicians are. And I myself am a very specific type of person who likes concrete initiatives. But that's why it's good to be put on tests like this. So I will not dive into all the concrete things, because we share many of the things we want to do. However, I was curious about the rapporteur's view that children should go to less time in school. And instead of being very specific, will the rapporteur describe the relationship between school and leisure provision in the future, if it is up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103139	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103140	After all, in the Radical Left we want to give the freedom for school days to be shorter. And I think that apart from the fact that we are talking about how long it makes sense to be in school, it also makes an independent point that it makes sense that we are talking about how long we should be in leisure education. Because if you're going to be able to do more activities and if you're really going to be able to immerse yourself in skateboarding and playing football and making music and all the activities you can, you need more than an hour and a half. Therefore, it is an independent point that the leisure club must fill more in the children's lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103216	Again, I very much agree with that. What we can see, I think, now that we are giving schools freedom and school days a little shorter, is that we end up with the fact that leisure education is also forgotten, and then the money does not quite follow over, and the rapporteur knows that too. So I cannot help thinking that, in addition to the freedom that we now have to give to schools, at some point we also have to perhaps start by saying that school days must be shorter, starting from the point of view of today, so that the day in leisure offers will be longer. And then also give freedom. That's how I think about it, because otherwise I'm afraid they'll be forgotten and there's not enough time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103252	It could be a model. But another model may also be that, in what we do from in here, we give priority to the fact that there is more time open in recreational education and that there are more adults, so that the offer becomes stronger, and that when we talk about what we prioritise, we say that this is our first priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103311	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103315	I have great sympathy for the idea of leisure education in my own right. If the rapporteur wanted to unfold a little, I would like to know what structural measures we might be able to use to ensure that. After all, we have two parallel legislations today, one on day-to-day provision and one in the field of school, and it is absolutely essential that it is used in the field of school. Could it be a structural approach simply to detach recreational education, to detach leisure arrangements from primary school legislation, so that it returned, as it were, unequivocally to the day-to-day law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103401	Yes, I agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on that. And in this matter of the fact that it has to be in its own right, there is everything from the small model, which alone is legislation and to say that one has its own purpose, that one has to have one's own management, and then the very large model, which is its own premises. And that is why I am looking forward to this discussion with you too, because it is clear that the bigger a package we want, the more money it costs, and the more it requires that we agree to prioritize it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103428	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the radical rapporteur. Excuse me, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj had a brief comment to make? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103439	I'd like that. I'm sorry I didn't get in touch. After all, the rapporteur and I, together with others, have negotiated minimum standards in the area of day-care last year, and indeed a little this year too, and if we were to tackle the whole debate on minimum standards, including in this area, it would not be a good idea for the rapporteur to take it into account in his dreams that we introduced minimum standards, such as, among other things, minimum standards. the professional organizations in this area have requested that we be given a standard where there are no more than nine children per year. adult on leisure arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103517	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103517-2	It was also on the list, and if the Enhedslisten's rapporteur listened carefully, he would have heard it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103524	Good. We thank the rapporteur. I would like to ask if I can have the text of the proposal for adoption. Thank you. I have now received a proposal for adoption which will be included in the further debate. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party, please come up here now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416103559	Thank you for that, President. Today we are talking about leisure and youth education, and this is an important subject, which I fully agree with the rapporteur for the questioners in we are talking too little about at Christiansborg. In fact, I think that leisure and youth education should be recognised for what it is, namely a strong professionalism, which is why I am very pleased that we now have the opportunity to discuss the slightly longer-term ambitions in the field of leisure. There is no doubt that recreational and youth education plays an important role in our welfare model and in our society in general. We have heard examples of this both from the Minister and from the author of the question. It is an important part of bringing all children and young people into a binding community that is fun and playful and where children and young people are allowed to be themselves. Fortunately, in Denmark we have succeeded in prolonging childhood and youth in many respects. We spend more time in the education system, we leave home a little later, and we also have children at a later age. In many ways we have succeeded in delaying adulthood and giving time to be a child and to be young. But something threatens the pocket of childhood and youth. Children and young people in the education system, yes, even children in the smallest classes are experiencing increasing expectations, both in relation to performance at school, but also an expectation pressure from other external circumstances to which they have been exposed much more through social media and what has otherwise been followed by technological developments. As a child and young person, we have a special need to thrive. It is in the young years that we lay the foundations for the rest of our lives and find answers to probably some of the most central questions that you trouble with, who you are, who I am, and what I need to do with my life. It has to be said that in an increasingly individualised society an increasingly large group of children and young people find it difficult to find answers to those questions. We see the consequences in research, they can be great, and they can follow the individual far into adult life. In my view and in the view of the Social Democrats, we as a society have an obligation to ensure that everyone feels as part of the community, because we know that the binding community is one of the most important tools in the fight against distrust, and I believe that with more than a year of corona it has become clear to each of us in this Chamber today what it means for the well-being of our children and young people, or for the lack of it, when you experience the absence of the communities in the leisure clubs, in the ballroom or from the comrades on the road. But it has also been a year in which we have seen the importance of good leisure education. We must remember to learn from and remember these experiences when, hopefully, we soon return to something similar to a slightly more recognizable everyday life. There is often a misunderstanding about this, and I think that sometimes there is a tendency among us politicians here at Christiansborg that youth and leisure education clubs are just there to be places where young people can applaud rabbits, where you can go to the bicycle workshops, where you can play Fortnite, or where you can drink a cup of tea. But fortunately it is also much more than that, because these are places where the feet are planted in pride and professionally push the social development of young people so that they become whole people, socially conscious people, and give them opportunities to unfold, which I think very many of them might otherwise have difficulty finding elsewhere. Leisure education can and will do more than just care, and it is crucial when we work with young people's dissatisfaction, health, education and when we are trying to prevent young people's way into crime and radicalisation. Recreational and club offerings are a good community investment both as an active part of the discussion about well-being, but also as a space for children and young people to enter into communities where they meet each other crosswise and crosswise. This requires that all children and young people have access to leisure and club services, and, as the Minister rightly said, the discussion will also be about ensuring that this also applies to children who do not necessarily come from families who have given them a social backlash from home. I hope that in the future, now that we are dreaming, we will dare to recognise the teaching of leisure and youth for what it is: a space that protects childhood, youth and leisure, that leisure offers are made an active part of well-being strategies when we talk about it in the future, where there is a framework for children and young people from all kinds of homes and backgrounds to meet and create a community of their common interests, and where young people are allowed to have a youth and leisure life and be the most important thing, namely to be young people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104055	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104059	It was exciting to hear the rapporteur's visions, and I share many of them. One thing I noticed was the desire of the Social Democratic Party that everyone should have access. That doesn't mean everyone has to go there. I think we need to get as many people as possible to use recreational education. That is also what makes everyone feel welcome, that it is not a very small crowd sitting there. But if everyone is to have access, it must also be affordable. In the area of day care, and when you had self-serving leisure homes, there was a ceiling on parental pay. Could the Social Democrats see for themselves in the future that they are doing the same thing in the field of sfo? Now it is not necessarily in this parliamentary term, but is it something you could see in the Social Democracy that you set a corresponding ceiling to ensure that everyone has access?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104150	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104152	Thank you. First of all, I fully agree with the questioner that all children and young people should not necessarily be forced to go into a leisure offer. Children are different, and therefore you also find the communities that best suit you. I remember how I myself spent a lot of gunpowder on dribbling the challenges I had in school away in a handball hall, and I think that is also true of all sorts of others. After all, we have said that we have an ambition that we want more children to become part of the binding community and, of course, also discuss how we are going to get it. But here today I cannot stand and be concrete on a model for how we can do this, but we have also put forward proposals on several occasions that we want to have a discussion that we should have more. So I think that at some point, hopefully, we will have the opportunity to discuss it. However, I welcome the proposal and the good input.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104244	Perhaps the rapporteur can just reflect on whether the rapporteur thinks it is paradoxical that there is a difference in legislation, because I think it is a little paradoxical that we should say what the price of the day-to-day offer should be for parents, and that is precisely on the basis of the idea that everyone should be able to afford it. There you can just see that the prices of the sfos have risen and increased, and in some places I think you even use it as a cover-up to pay for what is going on in the primary school to say it a little hard. So perhaps the rapporteur can just reflect on whether there is nothing paradoxical about the fact that the legislation is different in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104321	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104323	There may well be a discussion about this. I think the most important thing here is to share the ambition of what is the goal, and I agree with the questioner that there may well be some obstacles. There I think the Minister is right to say that what we need is also to get an overview of what it looks like and what it is about some challenges that are going on out there. And if we can see that the big challenge and the problem is that prices are too high in some places versus others, then it is a fine place to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104356	The next question is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104359	Thank you. I had actually marked to ask some of the same thing as what I hear the SF's rapporteur is asking about. In other words, if we in the Socialist Group want more people to be part of the recreational education system, and that is what we want, then we also have to note that over the last few years the municipalities have raised the price and raised again, and we have also seen that, as the school reform is roll-in and so on, the time in the SFO has been reduced in many places. This means, of course, that in the past, where you actually had a greater width compared to the number of children who went to either a leisure home or a club or other, we can see that the degree of participation in the sfo's is low. So if the Social Democrats' rapporteur, like here from the platform, wants to give a direction as to whether the Socialists could look at a ceiling, I would just like to hear: do the Socialists share the analysis that the price has greatly contributed to the fact that we have pushed some children out of our leisure opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104502	Thank you for the question. There's a two-part discussion in this. After all, the Minister also touched on the fact that we have a group of children and young people who are socially at risk and who have the opportunity to have a free space, but one can see that a large group of them do not come in our sfos and our leisure facilities anyway. It is a huge problem, and there we have enough distress to break in relation to how we get them too. Is there a problem with general expenditure? I share the reflections of the questioner if it is the case that the municipalities use this as a screw to finance other parts of their system by turning the prices up on the sfo. I think that this is a problem because, as I said in my speech, and as has also been said by both the rapporteur for the questioners and the Minister, we know what these binding communities in the SFO and in the leisure homes can do. That is why, of course, it is important that a good offer is also affordable. So if that is the case, I think it is quite clear that we can have a discussion on it, but I also think, as the Minister has said, that what is needed in this area is for us to have a survey and that we will learn more about what it looks like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104608	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104609	Thank you. Now BUPL has made a survey, also down at the municipality level, which shows that it is not only some of the children who could actually have got a free space, and some of the educators in the qualitative study that has been done for BUPL say: Try to hear, we still have a lot of key children who go home themselves, even if they could actually get a free space. That's one group. But there are also those where the family cannot get free space, but where one chooses to say: Listen, it has become too expensive relative to how little time one is there. The rapporteur said that the money would then be used to finance other things, and we must not do so. Does the rapporteur agree that if the municipalities finance other things with sfo-payment, then that money should be paid back to the parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104652	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104653	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104655	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104701	I am just curious to hear why social democracy is not included in our joint adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104709	Thank you. I also think it is a really good text for adoption, which on Tuesday there will be a majority in favour of the Folketing. And the questioner knows very well that we would very much like to be included in that text of adoption. I just think it is a little paradoxical that when we call for a question debate on our dreams of leisure education for the next 10 years, we will require the government to convene negotiations before the end of September, as the text of the adoption says. I mean, the minister was right to say that we are in the middle of a corona management. That is what is the focus now, and that is what we have a core task in solving. This does not mean that this area is not important, and that is why the Social Democrats would really, very much, have liked to have been included in that text for adoption. We have also tried to go a very long way in order to be able to join it, but we do not think that the time is right in terms of imposing on the government that we should give priority to this particular area rather than, for example, to this area. to deal with something in relation to the Corona issue, and that is why we are not in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104809	But what is the Social Democratic bid if something should happen in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104816	However, I hope that the questioner has heard both my speech and the speech that the Minister made about our ambition to have an area where more children are made part of the binding communities, because we know that it works. The Minister said that this is what is needed in this area, and I think the questioner knows that if she talks to those who work with it on a daily basis. It is also about the need to gain more knowledge, and you need to learn more about what it looks like. Well, we have very, very limited knowledge, both when it comes to research into leisure and youth education, but also when it comes to what it looks like in different places. Only a few organizations, BUPL and the Youth Ring, take the time to do some of this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104857	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104859	I would like to say that I was pleased with the rapporteur's comments on the importance of leisure arrangements for the well-being and social development of children. I share that. I would like to come back to and focus on the issue of payment: does the rapporteur not think that there is anything strange about the fact that we have a primary school law, where the primary school is absolutely free of charge, it is, I believe, even constitutionally guaranteed • and then, as part of the primary school law, we have an offer which in principle has to be paid 100 per cent. By the parents? Is that not a strange counterposition in the same legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104939	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416104940	If it is also to criticise the work that goes on in the wake of the primary school, I do not agree. But you can correct me if it's that I'm wrong. But I think it is a problem if it means that there are more children and young people who opt out of leisure homes because of the payment. I have also discussed this issue several times here, but we are willing to take that discussion, because it is important that we ensure that children and young people have the opportunity to choose the offers. That must be my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105016	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105019	The money itself is important, but it is also a little the principle. If you attach the social value to leisure arrangements as much as I can hear the rapporteur do, is it not strange that we in the Enhedslist share in many ways with the Social Democratic Party that we have such a central welfare area, where it is basically the case that parents can pay every single penny themselves? Is it not a fundamental problem, whether the ability to pay is sufficient or not? Is it not wrong that our welfare society contains such an opportunity for full parental leisure arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105101	I mean, I think that some of the forces are, as has also been said earlier today, that the link between school and educators in leisure schemes is shorter and that it is therefore easier to deal with and solve some of the problems and challenges that can arise. But I also think that when you talk about leisure and youth education, that's also one of the things that may have been talked about too much today... you have to be careful not to create an area that closes itself. Because I think that leisure and youth education is a strength because it can figure out how to get across the rifts and be part of other arenas and can look like what are children and young people's reality. That is what is of great value, and that is what is the great strength.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105144	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth of the Left, who can stay ready. And then I'm gonna ask for a slight despriting. Thank you, and here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105209	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to Lotte Rod for putting this important question. Before I begin my speech, I would just like to lean a little bit on what the Minister said. Because I also have an experience that this is not black and white, but that something is actually going on that may be good, but that it is also very different from municipality to municipality, and we just have to have that in mind when we continue the discussions here, I think. Have we ended up in a situation where children no longer have a free space to be children that they once had, that is, a free space to explore, to create themselves, to play and to beat themselves sometimes? Yeah, some scientists say that. And it is with this that we have more vulnerable children that are not robust for the future that awaits. Leisure teaching is, or maybe more have been, what could create the framework for creating robust and self-help children, and therefore it is also important to discuss the conditions of leisure education, both today, but also what it should look like in the future. Because what happens when we wrap a whole generation of kids in cotton? Perhaps we can see the contours of the next few years. Young people today are less robust to cope with modern society than they were before, yet modern society requires robust children and young people. Social media, iPads and mobile phones have contributed to the stress and anxiety of many young people who reflect in the shine picture they see on the web. Here they are confronted with what they see as their own inadequacy and errors. They get that self-image, and they take it with them to school and to education. The challenges of perfectionist culture and character and performance race are well known, and a fight with it requires that we get some children who have the prerequisites to resist, to rest in themselves and to tackle the challenges that undoubtedly arise along the way. In the Left, we believe that leisure education and the philosophy associated with it are a path towards that goal. We must create a freer framework for children and create spaces for children to play, find and experiment, but of course strike, and right where they strike, there must be a teacher who can pick up and give a loving push on. To learn and look into a better future, we need to look back and look forward a little. For part of the reason that we are where we are is definitely the school reform from 2014. After all, the idea of more time in school only included more of the children's freedom and leisure time and only kept the children more in a system where goals of all sorts were squeezed in. Part of the reason is also what is happening politically, both in the municipalities, but indeed in here at Christiansborg, and that sometimes we lose track of the consequences of what we decide. I believe that the development which most or none of us have wanted, i.e. the fact that children today have less freedom, is unintended, and therefore it is also important that there is room for this debate on the direction in which we see leisure education moving forward and that we are thus stopping, evaluating and making it better forward. We in the Left also want children and young people to be more freed from systems that set up tight frameworks. Instead, we have to make room. We need to make room for children to be children, while at the same time finding out both how to organize themselves, but also how to find each other out. We must give room for leisure education to do what it is best to do, namely to give children room to explore each other, to play, to show children something about the creative subjects, but also to be there and pick up when a loving hand is needed. Finally, we must allow parents to choose exactly what they think their children need, whether they are private or public. The Left supports both this question, but also the text of the adoption which Lotte Rod previously read out, and we look forward to a good discussion of what kind of recreational education we want in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105633	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105637	I will continue a little along the same lines as what I also asked Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg about. Now Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby herself said that the prices for parents out locally to have their children in a sfo offer have increased and that it has also led to several key children who do not come into leisure. So I would just like to hear: what will the Left really do about that problem? For that is a completely crucial problem to solve, so that everyone has access to leisure opportunities, so that more people think it pays to sign up not that it pays to work, but that it pays to go to work, but that it requires us to do something. So what does the Left think you should do here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105721	Thank you, President. We are certainly involved in discussing both a ceiling in payment, and we would also like to discuss legislation, that is, where this should be, because it is in different areas, which also means that there are different prices in this. Now I come from a municipality where we have different prices for these different offers and where parents can be somewhat confused about why you have to pay something because you live in one place and something else because you live somewhere else. So we are fully involved in a free and open-minded discussion both in relation to the economy, but also about where it should be legislative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105805	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105807	[Sound emission]... educational and school policy in these times is good and nice to hear, because I think that it puts more emphasis on leisure education and also gives more freedom out locally. Last time, in the last parliamentary term, when we proposed this with a ceiling on the parental pay... because it has both Enhedslisten and SF suggested that you were not so prepared for it, but I would like to sign for that to be looked at now, because I think that is quite crucial if we are to have more to choose the offer again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105844	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105846	Thank you, President, and thank you for the roses to Jacob Mark... you just keep doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105853	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105856	Well, I'm curious about the statement that the Left is open to discussing where the leisure arrangements should be legislative. Is it to be understood that the Left is open to us moving the area back, so that, in terms of legislation, it is clearly anchored over in the daily offer law and not in the primary school law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105921	Thank you. I'm not gonna stand here promising anything. What I promise is that we would like to discuss it, and I can only see that there are some problems in that it lies in different places, and I think this is inappropriate both for those who are in the area, but also for those parents who use these offers for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416105945	I look forward to that debate. Then I would say that I also liked in the picture of the child who falls and needs to be helped up. It can be difficult when there are 30-35 children per year. adult in some school break schemes. Now I understand that the Left is not so enthusiastic about minimum standards, but isn't there anything that suggests that with the figures we know there is a need to invest in more staff in the school break arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416110017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416110018	I think that debate is more nuanced. In fact, as I said at the outset, I think it is very different, both how much standardization there is, but also how many educators are there when the children use these offers. So I am not clearly in the picture drawn up by the rapporteur, namely that there are 1 to 30-35. It is a very different picture, but let us also discuss it further, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416110057	There are no more brief comments. We thank the Left rapporteur (Sten Knuth Enjoy). The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen from Dansk Folkeparti, who is allowed to stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416110123	Thank you, President. When I was a child, I didn't go to a leisure club or a leisure home. I think I was there one time and bored myself so damn well that I hurried home. When I was a kid, we had the day off after school, and then we went home, and then we played, or we went to football, or went out to the woods, or went on adventures. But there we didn't have computers and iPhones and iPads, and I am well aware that childhood and growing up today are quite different than when I was a child. And so it can also make sense to have a leisure education, so today children are taught to take their eyes off the iPhone and iPaden, and it can be extremely difficult because many children depend on it and because that is how they are together; they sit and are together I would also say that it is the schools, the municipalities and the parents who are responsible. The schools are responsible for the sfo, and they are also responsible for parental payments, and that is how I think it should continue to be. And it is the schools that have the quite local responsibility for how to organise the sfo and possibly a leisure offer. Because we have been a welfare state and a welfare society for so many years, it has almost become a little strange that children can play for themselves and be themselves without an adult being present to create the framework for them in some way. I find that unfortunate. I mean, I sometimes dream myself back to cocoa with mom and comrades, and I know that it is not possible today; it is other times. And I am aware, as I said, that recreational education has a place. The Minister has explained the dreams that Mrs Lotte Rod has asked for with regard to leisure education in ten years' time, and it has been interesting to listen to the Minister and we take note of the speech. What happens then is for the government to find out, i.e. whether discussions should be called for after this request. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416110414	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416110437	I was one of those uneducated young people who got a good youth job at a primary school when I finished high school. But I was a little lucky to get that job, because it opened my eyes to many things. Among other things: I taught a 0-class class, and that could be a challenge. There were 29 children who each day had many different wishes and dreams for what they were going to do the day they showed up, and one of them was Hjalte.I dare say that, because he wouldn't mind. Hjalte wasn't so good at going to school, he didn't think it was so funny. In fact, he reminded me a little of myself. And when Hjalte had to eat, the mackerel sandwiches drove around on the table, and when we had to do things that were sewing, and you had to learn how to write letters, I actually think his reaction was often just to put your head down on the table and say: Oh. Then I thought, "What the hell do you do for someone like Hjalte?" But many of us uneducated also had the advantage of being employed in the sfo, so we went straight to the sfo afterwards and continued there, and then when I got over there, it was as if Hjalte had changed. He had thought it had been unbearable to be in school, but over there Hjalte was a hero. In class he was one that the others might have looked at a little strangely at sometimes, but over in the sfo he was the one everyone wanted to play with because he had the wildest imagination, because he was not tied to a chair at a table with fixed tasks, but could toss around and put games in motion. There were adults who demanded nothing of him but that he was decent to his comrades. I would like us to give more room again to all the Hjalter who are around them there are many of them and the best way to give them better room at school, but also to ensure that there is more time for leisure education. I'm not one of those who thinks it was doing Hjalte a favor to do school day longer, for Hjalte it was just a very long day until he could get into sfo. So my vision of recreational education is the reality that it needs much more space, space and time and a much higher priority. I want fewer key children who go home after school because it just paid off, and then you gave them straight allowance instead, or because it was more fun to play computer, and more children who are part of a strong community because they simply don't want to go home because they think it's so cool over in the sfo. I want the most important thing in our school, child and youth policy not to be what is on a schedule and what can be measured or weighed on, but to be the things that create the joy of life and development for such people as Hjalte and, by the way, everyone else. That's my vision. This requires concrete measures, and what I think we should do is, on the one hand, to set a ceiling on parental pay. Yes, there are freeways and subsidies for those who have the very least, but for many who earn an ordinary income, there are no subsidies, and for them it is expensive, especially in the municipalities where you have just raised the price, and unfortunately there are more of them. I want better standards so that it is not just storage, but that the staff can actually live out the dreams they had when they took the training. Many people are sorry that they cannot do so today because they have just been saved and saved. I want it to have its own law that it should not just be a hanging-up on our school law, but that it has a separate law and a separate purpose. I want longer opening hours and shorter school days. For time matters, both in relation to what parents think, in terms of whether they should pay the price, when there is still so little time in the sfo, but also because there are some children who just need longer over in the leisure scheme, and because some of the problems we wanted to solve when we did the primary school reform are actually best solved in the leisure scheme. Whether it should be self-serving again, or whether it should be self-governing, I think that is a discussion that we can continue forward-looking. There has been huge savings on the sfo, both with the reform of primary school and then in the municipalities, and now there is also a problem with corona, which causes more people to resign, so it is so important that we take a debate on the long-term visions, and I think it is great to hear my colleagues' visions of recreational education, but it is also important that we have an urgent plan to make sure that this is not just something we are discussing in ten years' time, but that we have good sfos and leisure opportunities both this year, next year and the coming years. There's so much need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416110955	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. A brief comment has just been made. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416111003	I can hear that we have many of the same things on the list, so I just want to ask: what does the SF really prioritise first, as the most important thing, if you have made yourselves clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416111012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416111014	I see it as quite important that there is more time, because I think, among other things, that there are some children who simply need more time in the sfo, because that's where they can be the kings to say it out loud or the heroes, or whatever to call them. So time in itself is important, and that requires taking time away from something else, because they also have to go home and have dinner with their parents. So it will mean shorter school days, but it also has a different purpose of its own, because, as I said, there are some parents, and you can really understand that which makes such a little cost-benefit analysis of it, where time can be so short that they will not pay the price. So if the time is long now, I actually think that fewer people will turn their children out. So I think getting more time in sfo is the first thing we need to look at, and so shortly thereafter on minimum standards in sfo and ceiling on parental pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416111110	Is there a follow-up? No, good. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416111128	It is rare that questions give rise to asking a minister to dream and perhaps the rapporteurs too. I think that's a shame. On the other hand, when I prepared myself, I also thought that unfortunately, debates on recreational education and children's leisure have often developed as a nightmare. The political discussion on recreational education has been all too much about how recreational education could be put in the service of education rather than being in its own right, and the debate on children's leisure has all too often focused on how to limit it. It has been a strong political agenda for many years that children should have more education, longer school days and hence less leisure time, and it was certainly not a debate that started with the reform of primary school, as sometimes one can get the impression. In fact, we have to go back to the early 1980s to see how the foundation was politically laid for an earlier school start and how plans were developed for the establishment of a holistic school. It was also during the period in which it was set to make leisure establishments a fully integrated part of the school and to run leisure homes in favour of school freetime schemes. It's my impression that a lot of children, parents and staff I have actually worked in a leisure home years ago... loved the leisure homes. That is why leisure homes also had a long life after the mid-1980s, but unfortunately, as Mrs Lotte Rod also mentioned, there is virtually no one left. It has been a sad development to see one municipality after another closing its leisure homes in favour of sfos, and it has been, especially because it has not only been about carrying out the same educational activity under a different legal basis, but development has been influenced by the strong desire from many quarters not to have leisure education in their own right, but to merge school and leisure time. Fortunately, the other way has also been taken, first and foremost by the committed staff around us on our leisure schemes who have fought to stick to the whole of the recreational educational tradition and to safeguard children's free time. It is really important that children's leisure time is not regarded as an unnecessary luxury. Children's leisure time has a value in itself, and we must have leisure facilities where everything is not adult-run. There must be plenty of room for play, there must be room to experiment and to explore the world, and not least it must be a place where there is a lot of focus on how we ensure that children develop friendships and develop communities that are incredibly important for children's development and life. In the Enhedslisten we would like to see children's free time extended at the expense of school hours. We think it is high time that we also recognised in practice that the long school days of the reform of the primary school were a mistake. We want to do something about the towering parental pay in the sfo's. A KL study shows that parents in almost every five municipalities pay between 80 and 100 per cent. of the total operating expenditure in this field. We want to have a ceiling on payment so that the leisure arrangements can be for all children in the future too, and then we want to take action to improve the standards in the sfos. The standards are average, says a BUPL study, just over 20 children per year. adult, and in a number of examples it has emerged that there are norms where there are 30-35 children per year. adult. This is simply unacceptable and in the Enhedslisten we want to have minimum standards so that there are no more than nine children per year. Pedagogic employee. It will be very practical and perhaps too little dream; it can be one of the mistakes we make here in the Folketing. Should I have a dream that I know is difficult to realize, it should be that we recreated the leisure homes so that they were completely freed from the bonding bond of the school, not because there should be no cooperation, but because leisure education must be allowed to live in its own right. On the way to the dream, it is important that we act practically politically, and that is where I think we could appropriately start with longer opening hours in the sfos, with a lower parental pay and with the introduction of minimum standards, so that there are adults enough to carry out the important recreational educational task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416111634	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And I'm sorry, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, can we get a grooming of the platform? Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party, who can be kept clear. There's the hygiene police here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416111701	Thank you very much to the Radicals for presenting this question debate on the dreams of leisure education. It is not often that we have query debates about the dreams so it really likes. Our dreams for leisure education in the Conservative People's Party are that leisure offers provide space for development, which makes children and young people first become someone before they become anything. For yes, it is actually essential: you have to become someone before you start having the discussion about becoming something. And that interpretation takes place in the sfo's; that young people are primarily active co-creators of their own leisure time, and that they have the courage to seize the opportunities that arise. It is where they inspire others and experience how they themselves inspire. Children find security in the communities in leisure life, where they ensure, with the appropriate support of adults, that there are no performance requirements and that they avoid bullying and otherwise participate with good companionship. On paedagogen.dk it is described how the sfos over the years have typically focused more and more on a learning agenda, including how the sfo's pedagogy can work as a complement to what is going on in the teaching. And I wrinkled over that a little bit when I read it. Because in my optics there's really got to be learning in a sfo, because we're learning from everything. We also learn from play; we learn from play. That's really good. But I don't like it being linked to the educational situation, and I don't like it being connected to the school, because a sfo is just free time; free time is in the words. So the sfo must be a place where the students should not always feel that they are being assessed, where they do not always feel that they are being measured and weighed, where they are not sitting on needles, but where they can just have time off. And then it is also a place where children have the opportunity for creativity, movement, social communities and association, and not least also the good companionships, and we must create the framework for this in Christiansborg politically. But we can't do it alone, and you have to be careful to start pulling a lot down over the recreational education from in here. So it is with the involvement of the municipalities, where the municipalities play a very, very important role in the actual execution of local leisure education. Then there have been several who have told about what it was like for them to go to sfo or to have got acquainted with the sfos • both SF, Radical and Dansk Folkeparti told about it. What I remember best is Annelise. Annelise had a very, very long hair right down to the center of his back, which one had to be allowed to frieze and be allowed to put for an infinity, and it was absolutely fantastic. And then I also have the memories of the fireplace, but also of something that certainly hadn't gone today. Because I remember we took a shovel, and then we hollowed out a piece of French bread and put it on the shovel, and then we knocked out an egg, and then we made eggs in the French bread on the shovel, which hadn't been cleaned or anything before. That was the case at the time, and it is not certain that it would happen today. But what must ultimately be the vision of leisure education, when we can remember from up here the happy memories that we have from our time in leisure homes or in sfo, is that our children and young people will in future also have a corresponding array of happy memories that they take with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112105	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one on the platform is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112127	I have to admit that I do not understand this Rules of Procedure, so I do not know what it really is that I am going to be up here at this time. I think it was sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, who said he wanted to go back to the time when you came home after school, and then there were buns and cocoa. I would like to go back to the time when a question followed the Rules of Procedure that it had just returned in 2001, right? I simply think that the rapporteur for the Conservatives actually got an incredibly fine end, because that is what this is all about: creating a good childhood for children. And I think that we have had a very good debate here, where I actually think that on behalf of the government I was given the points with which I wanted to make my opening speech. I also think the Social Democrat rapporteur made a very good speech and got the answer to questions. But if the point of this second round is that I have to be available for questions, then of course I would be delighted to do so. I think there are a lot of good debates in the stomach on this. But what is really supposed to be twice, I don't know how many minutes, for a minister up here, I don't know. This can be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. But sometimes old times were better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112243	Thank you, Minister. The first question is Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112247	What has made the Minister most impressed by what we have been talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112253	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112256	I have to say that some of the things I have at least sat and been puzzled about are, in fact, the disagreement about whether or not things should be strictly separate from the school. I mean, sometimes there are some lines of disagreement that are different than usual, because in reality I hear a Parliament where you agree on the role on a long stretch. I sat there like this thinking that there would be other communities where it was immediately thought that recreational education should be put into such a learning function, so that it became basically a mini-school, just after school. Nobody's gonna say that in this Parliament. So there are some positions that would be obvious, but which are not present and maybe in reality fortunately for that but then I think there are some other positions present that I can be curious about, among other things. why it should be so important whether it was in one place or another. At any rate, I believe that it has been a very great step forward, that there has been a greater degree of overall orientation and coherence in everyday life. And then you can go to football if you don't want to be more at school. But that is one of the things I am curious about and some of the things I think we should also take time to discuss more in depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112405	Is that follow-up? No. Sir. Jacob Mark from SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112424	The Minister said in his first speech, or perhaps it was in fact in an answer, that it is no surprise that the corona has had negative consequences for the sfo, and the Minister has actually known this since April last year. And it certainly woke the feeling in me that I would then want to ask why not really done so much to help the sfo. Because exactly the sfo I think is one of the places where we haven't actually lifted, and it's perhaps just as much SF's responsibility. But to put it bluntly, I know that many in the sfo feel forgotten. It is not something that has filled much in the debate. The numbers are rising and rising and savings are already being made out there. Isn't it really time for us to sit down and say, "What do we do with the sfo now under corona?"
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112510	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112514	Well, now over 1,500 decisions were made last April, so of course we all don't remember. However, I would just like to remind the SF's rapporteur that the SF's rapporteur has actually contributed to the fact that, in connection with last summer, we dropped quite a lot of money and that the municipalities could do so, that they just let it concentrate on recreational education. So it's not that it's all out there for all eternity and all this, but it's just to say that I actually believe, including SF's rapporteur, that there's been a really good focus on this, and we have to remember that it's a municipal task, and it's the same thing with primary school. In other words, when we discuss these things in here and we drop money, we do not do the job. But I will put it just as I said earlier in my reply that the problem was raised with me the first time by KL back in April last year, and we have had that sectoral partnership. We have, of course, like the two groups, and Mr. Jacob Mark all about it, but it is also just right for the public: we have the political follow-up group, where all the parties sit, and then the stakeholders, where all those who work in the field and the parents and students are involved, and there has been a focus on leisure education unchanged over the months. So I do not really agree with the description that there has been no attention to it. But there is a global pandemic, so right now I am worried about the leisure area, and I am worried about the primary school, and I am worried about vocational training, where fortunately they are coming back full-time now. So it is just to say that we know that there are a lot of negative consequences of the pandemic, and that there are also in the field of leisure, but I do not see it as having been neglected in relation to how difficult it has been, including in the other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112641	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112644	Actually, I think I do. When it's been about restrictions and guidelines, the sfo has always been them, where it was a little unclear what really worked for them, and when we've made help packages and those I've been doing myself, it's always ended up in that the sfos have again become such a hanging on the school. You can just choose to use a little, but there is e.g. not earmarked an economy for the sfo, and there is no such or other earmarked thinking about how we strengthen the sfo. So my appeal is really just with everything we've done together now and with the resignation figures that I think the time has come to sit down and make a plan for the sfo.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112725	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112728	After all, we have a political follow-up meeting later today and have it again on Tuesday next week, and I am prepared that the issues that arise along the way in relation to corona, we will take, and if there is a need for a status on where we are right now in relation to the SFOs, I would like to ask KL for us to get regular reports from them to give us his latest rendition of reports on where we stand and then present it to the follow-up group so that we can have a discussion on where we are in relation to corona. I'm gonna go over it with the separation, so we're gonna get over it with each other for a couple of laps, because holistic orientation is important to me. If you separate it too much, we lose it, at least there's a risk of part of that separation, and I'm curious about it. Well, we have to discuss what it is you win and what it is you lose, but I am not immediately a very big supporter of saying that there is one bowl for it and one bowl for it, and that, like more and more, you get it crushed into two different corners. In fact, I think that the whole idea has been that, not in relation to the content, but in relation to the ongoing cooperation and the way one chooses to prioritise, one can see it more and more in relation to one another. But we're gonna have to talk about that a few more times.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112835	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democrats, for the next brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112840	Thank you. It is not because I have a critical question for the Minister, but actually because the question which Mr. Jacob Mark asked, made me wonder a little. I could have hoped that he would have asked me that question instead. But I also know that there are a lot of people from that area who may not entirely agree with that view. My question to the Minister may be whether the Minister does not agree that clubs and leisure areas have actually been thought into the solution. This was done when the first reopening was carried out, and there have also been areas where, for example, we have been able to do so. We have seen that the danger of young people ending up in crime has meant that it was said that an exception would be made here and that clubs would be kept open, and staff have also been made available in other ways, for example. by going home and visiting some of those who have needed it etc. So, yes, there may have been some who have felt that it has not been enough that it is enough in the primary school but there are in fact also many other areas of leisure and youth education where, in the global pandemic we are in now, you have been part of the solution and where the staff out there have done an excellent job in being part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112939	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416112942	Well, I totally agree with the consideration. And with regard to the thing about feeling forgotten, I have the experience that if, for example, I... As Minister says pip about high school, it will take all the headlines, and in the same way, if I say pip about primary school, it will take the headlines too, but if I say pip about vocational schools or about the sfo's and leisure education, it will not take any headlines. That's why I can actually understand that you feel overlooked, or what I know. You do not see yourself reflected in the media picture in the same way as the other areas do. But I would like to say in this way that there have been discussions on the guidelines, and it is quite deliberately that it is well enough with a handful and completely on purpose and after long discussions and deep reflections on many dilemmas that the guidelines have landed exactly as they have done. Because there was a demand that you should go with your own class and that you should be in the same bubble as your class over in the leisure area and also when you came in the sfo. There is no doubt that there can be all sorts of good in this, but as far as purely educational matters are concerned, one has to say: No, no, no. In other words, we really need leisure education to be what it is: free time and that the group with which you are associated has a different composition from that of school. That is simply an independent point. The pressure of infection must of course be able to stick to it and all that, but it's just to say that it would have a lot easier just to say that it's just an appendage to primary school, so we're just following it. It has cost blood, sweat and tears to get these things laid properly, and I think we have done so in return. But I understand that the individual who works in the sfo has not necessarily discovered it, because there is not much media storm to be found in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113121	Thank you, Minister. There is one more brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113128	Thank you. I would just like to bring the Minister back to the beginning of the question, where Ellen Trane Nørby is asking the Socialist rapporteur whether he can spend extra time in school, and I would really like the Minister to confirm that he cannot do so and that, if he does, there is a command that he should not do so and that that money should be returned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113156	Like the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, confirmed that this is the case, I can also confirm that this is the case. Moreover, we have had that too, I think it is a simple consultation or two about it. So, yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113211	Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 20 April 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113240	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113248	Thank you for the floor. I have to say as a service announcement that it should have been Mr. Jens Joel, who was standing here today, but he's been prevented, and then I've had to take the job, and I hope so. L 199 is about the law on welfare agreements in the day-to-day services sector and the primary school sector. What we have had to see is that repeated reforms, centralisation exercises, efficiency and more funds stop having an impact on the quality of our welfare, so we have to stop and ask ourselves how long it can continue with that funds and what these funds are for. Because growing bureaucracy has emerged, and the priorities of changing governments have not necessarily brought with them anything other than public employees, who need to run stronger and spend less time on core tasks and more on documentation. The governance we have today does not necessarily produce the best results. Therefore, we must dare to let go, and that is why L 199 is the opportunity for a new start. That is why the Social Democratic Government presented the idea of a proximity reform in which key words such as freedom and trust are at the heart: freedom to make decisions close to citizens and to provide room for professionalism and confidence in the skills and ability of employees to perform good welfare. Fortunately, a broad majority in the Folketing supports this. In December, the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative, the New Civil, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative entered into two political agreements on a wide-ranging freedom in the day-to-day and primary schools respectively. The bill, which we are now to consider, aims to implement the two political agreements, thereby releasing the daily offers in Helsingør and Rebild Municipalities and the folk schools in Holbæk and Esbjerg Municipalities from mostly state regulation and from the municipal documentation requirements. The idea is that we free the municipalities in order to develop welfare and create a greater professional space for both employees and managers. It is an attempt to strengthen quality and presence in welfare by adding responsibility to those who are to make everyday life coherent in day-to-day offers and in public schools for the benefit of our children and young people. This makes very good sense, because corona has shown us that we have excellent staff in the institutions who, when they have the opportunity, are both creative, innovative and solution-oriented. So it is with peace of mind that today we let go of the roof a little bit. Of course, on the part of the Social Democratic Party, we support the bill, and we look forward with great interest to following the handling of the municipalities and the ongoing results that hopefully help to rethink the way we drive and develop our welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113615	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416113643	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The bill we are discussing today is part of an agreement we reached in the autumn. And that is why the Left will also vote in favour of the bill. However, I would also like to use my rapporteur's speech to focus a little on why we would actually have liked the draft law to be different. This is due to the fact that the welfare agreements we are discussing today in many ways have been called a wild idea and have been based on the free community agreements we have made in many ways, while the Left has been in government, and basically it has been based on the fact that all 98 municipalities in Denmark had the opportunity to ask to challenge the legislation, to make attempts at freedom and challenge also in areas where the Folketing might have a different idea. The draft law we are discussing today is basically only about 2 times 2 municipalities, i.e. 4 municipalities in total, which have been allowed to have more freedom. And there we would have liked to have seen that during the negotiations we had said that we had not only concentrated it here to two municipalities in the field of children and two municipalities in the school area, which the Prime Minister had so little hand-held had chosen and called before she launched the idea of her opening speech to the opening of the parliament last year, but that, in fact, freedom had been given more play in the municipal landscape. When we look at the agreement we made in the autumn and also look at the legislative proposal we are discussing today, there is no doubt that we have also tied each other up in the sense that the draft law outside the municipalities must not kid the free choice. I mean, you can't shut down the free primary schools with this bill. It has been important for the Left. You can't kid the free choice, for example. in the area of children, where it is the right of parents to choose the institution, the type of care best suited to their child. And that is why there is such a fundamental discussion about the freedom of the municipality, and then the freedom which we in the Left believe to be more important in many ways: freedom for the individual, that is, freedom for the parents, to make choices about school, to make choices about kindergarten on behalf of their children and to find the best offer for their children. Fortunately, we have found a balance there in the agreement we reached in the autumn so that we do not deny the free choice in this area. Unfortunately, in the area of the elderly, where no agreement has been reached, the government was not prepared to make an agreement which did not deny free elections. And I would like to acknowledge to the Minister that in this area the Minister agreed that freedom for municipalities should not be at the expense of freedom for families. And it's been important to the Left. If we look at the bill, we have also bound each other to have real freedom out there. And it has also been important, because we can all have our highlights or little sticks that we would like to bring forward. However, if we are to give real freedom, we must also agree that freedom and decision-making powers must be laid out locally, that is to say, that we must have a flexible framework for testing new ideas, for educators, for teachers, for our staff to use their skills to create better day-to-day provision, for better education. Of course, there are some places where we have said: we cannot compromise on that. But we think we've found a good balance. And we are also pleased with the prints we have put on the Left side. As I said, we would also have liked it to include several municipalities. But if we look at it, according to the latest figures I could find, the municipality of Esbjerg has 1,726 students at a free school or a private school. In Holbæk Municipality it is 2.661 of the students. And if we look at the children's area, there are 500 children in the municipality of Elsinore and 340 in the municipality of Rebild, who have chosen another offer, that is, it may be a self-serving institution, it may be day care, it may be other. And it's just a subset. What is important, of course, is that we look at the offers that are then covered, namely primary and public nursery schools, and that we are also inspired by the freedom and the things that grow and grow in our free school sector, so that we really have tried the opportunities of which we have not had a chance to test so far. Several freedoms and being inspired also by the free sector we think are very good, but, as I said, we would have liked it to have been more than these two municipalities selected. That is why I also hope that in committee we can actually get clarification from the government as to whether the government is willing to accept more municipalities than in the experiment. Because we can hear such on the water pipes from the municipal hinterland that already there are municipalities considering applying to the government to be allowed to join the experiment. And that is why I think it is really important that we also clarify whether this is an opportunity or whether it is wasted work for the municipal councils out there. I can say that we on the Left are open to it if we can agree that we could have more than two municipalities in each area that made these attempts at freedom. But I hope the Minister can make us wiser. As I said, we will be voting in favour of the bill, but we would have liked it to be freedom for 98 municipalities, and not just for the 2 times 2 municipalities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416114206	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416114224	Yes, free communal attempts, or here called welfare agreements, dear child has many names. We have tried that in here over and over again, and now we try again. The purpose clause of the law states that the purpose of this law is until 30 September 2024 to release the responsibility of selected municipalities for the day-to-day and primary school areas with a view to developing welfare in the areas and creating greater room for action for employees and managers in order to increase the quality and presence of welfare for the benefit of the citizen. That wording could have been used in all the forms of free community experiments that have been attempted. Can one imagine the opposite wording: The purpose of this law is to tie the day-off and primary school management of selected municipalities in order to dismantle welfare in the areas and create less room for action for employees and managers in order to reduce the quality and presence of welfare to the disadvantage of the citizen? No, you can't say that, can you? So although it seems quite self-evident, it is nevertheless absolutely important that the purpose is described as it is, because it sends a strong signal to everyone, and of course especially to the municipalities involved, that that is what they are being measured on. Can they develop welfare? Can they increase the scope for employees and managers? Can they increase quality and can they increase presence for the benefit of citizens? And that's what we're gonna follow. One of the points that we in the Danish People's Party will have a lot of focus on in the committee work is that we must be absolutely sure that we really and systematically get measured and weighed whether the municipalities succeed with the individual elements. For the main purpose of the whole experiment is to provide a freer framework to see if new paths can lead to better quality and better welfare. I and many with me, I think, have a general experience that retail regulation and unnecessary paperwork have taken precedence in many places in our welfare community. Too much time and effort is spent on following detailed rules on how public servants should do their job and on proving that they have followed the rules rather than spending time on direct contact and presence with citizens. With this agreement, the intention is to give an extensive degree of freedom to organise, including: how each municipality's day offer and primary school should work. A crucial point will, of course, also be whether local authorities can, will and dare to eliminate the bureaucracy that is perceived as superfluous, while maintaining and developing that part of the documentation and bureaucracy that actually helps to ensure the quality of day-to-day services and schools. In the Danish People's Party we look forward to following the initiatives of the selected municipalities in order to remove unnecessary bureaucracy in the daycare and primary school area. We hope that the experiment will pave the way for a more efficient municipal service. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416114519	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is on the verge of leaping, I see, and that is the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Mr President. Jacob Mark. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416114542	The winds of freedom blow over the Danish primary school, and it certainly needs that too. For many years the school has been held in an iron grip, where politicians at Christiansborg with school policy inferiority complexes have chosen to control more and more every time TV 2 News has had hold of a school politician and said that now China has arrived here or now the other countries of PISA are here. Then more and more learning objectives, more and more demands for tests, more and more demands for follow-up, less and less opportunities for development in the individual school and less freedom. That time seems to be over, and that's good. Because you can run school in many ways. You can do what we have been doing for 10-15 years now, when Christiansborg makes 4,000 binding learning goals, connects them to national tests, which are held every year 517,000 of, and then forces municipalities to ask teachers on expensive digital learning platforms to set their feet by whether the kids have now learned exactly what the Christiansborg politicians want them to learn. It's a way to run a school where you think there's a central place in Denmark that's a better understanding of how to run a school than anywhere else in this country. You can also run school in a slightly different way. Instead of doing more targeted school, you can do purpose-driven school, where we say that we have a purpose with the Danish primary school: Children must have skills and knowledge; children must be formed and must be able to deal critically with the world they meet. We would like to contribute with goals where we say this is about where we want the children to go, and you can be inspired. Without denying your freedom of method, dear teachers, you can be inspired and see whether this is the right way for you out in classrooms or you can go another way as long as you achieve the overall goals and objectives. I don't believe there's one size fits all in school politics. Fortunately, the movement in school policy never reached its peak in day-to-day offers, even though there was a transition when it was just about to happen. But then the course changed, and it was nice and important, because it would be even worse in the day offers. So what I'm just trying to say is that this bill and this idea from the government, which also comes a little out of the idea of free municipalities and which comes out of the debate that has also taken place during the last parliamentary term, about basically giving more freedom, is quite the opposite. It is of course the belief that out locally from the school's point of view you can find out for yourself how best to run school. And now I happen to live in one of the municipalities that has been given full freedom and is very close to the process, and that is exciting. And it's great to see how the school boards take this very seriously, and they answer to the children, and they answer to the parents. And that responsibility is more serious and more important and perhaps also more heavy than the responsibility that it is to answer to me or those in here who have all sorts of attitudes towards schools. So this is an amazing suggestion. Unfortunately, too few people are given the freedom. That was also the first thing I said to the Minister when the Minister called me, namely that this is a great idea, that is to say, to give more freedom to the public schools and to the day-to-day offers, but it must not at last stand in the way of a more fundamental reform of freedom, where the iron grip that has been around school policy is being loosened and where all schools in Denmark are being given more freedom. And that is what the Minister has promised, and I also expect negotiations to take place soon. So that's a very good suggestion. I can't wait to see what it's carrying. I have high expectations of it, and I think it is very good that we now have a process in which we in the committee regularly talk to these municipalities and hear how things are going. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115018	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's from Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115025	Thank you so much. After all, I very much agree with many of the things that the rapporteur is saying from the platform about more freedom for schools. It is basically our policy that the money follows the individual child and that politicians must interfere much, much less and let the schools do it themselves. Unfortunately, as the rapporteur also says, this is not what has been the previous approach. It has been, of course, that from in here you have been extremely busy getting involved in the individual classroom. That is why I would really like to ask the rapporteur: if the rapporteur now has all these ideas and objectives, which I share with the rapporteur, that there should be more freedom for schools, how in the world could the Socialist People's Party be part of the school reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115122	There were two reasons for this. I do not entirely share the analyses, but now I am trying to take the rapporteur into account the reasons. One was that you have too many children in Denmark who start badly in life and who end badly in life because we haven't managed to move them. There was an analysis that said that when they are not well at home, it will help those children if they have a longer day of school. I do not entirely share that analysis and there is no research showing it either. On the contrary, research shows that shorter days and more hours with two adults in which there is quality will help those children. Strong leisure opportunities that we have just discussed will help those children. The second reason was, and it was more real, that it had become a saving exercise for many municipalities to save on the number of hours. There is a lot of money to be saved by that. And then there was a huge difference in the quality of teaching given to the kids. Now that we are giving freedom, I believe in educational freedom, but I do not believe in freedom of resources. We must ensure that there is a stable economy in the Danish primary school, which they themselves have at their disposal locally. We must not go back completely to what was before, because then it will be a saving exercise again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115225	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115228	After all, the school reform was one size fits all, where you sort of pushed it down and said that someone is not feeling well, and that's why we're doing a long school day for everyone. This is the diametrically opposite of freedom. However, as I said, I agree with many of the rapporteur's observations. That is why our clear position is that the money should follow the individual child, because then you can choose good offers. They will then have a good economy and then you can choose bad offers from, and they will then have a bad economy, and in the end they will probably close if they do not stop. That is the whole idea of our school policy. So I can only be glad that the SF seems to have moved on in this area, and will then look forward to creating much more freedom for schools and would like the money to follow the individual child so that it is actually the case that you vote with your feet, rather than the politicians who decide where the money goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115324	In fact, it is a slightly wrong analysis that all the ills in terms of governance came in 2013, I would say. It was actually the PISA regime that led to the national tests, and it was with the national tests that the thinking began in learning goals and also changed the foundations of the Danish educations, and it was then manifested by the whole way the reform of the primary school was assessed was progressing in national tests • what is a huge mistake. But it actually started earlier. In relation to the fact that the money follows the child, there is at least one concern that does not necessarily mean that I am in favour of complete freedom for the money to follow the child. It is that it will close schools in the whole country. There will simply be many schools unless a minimum limit is set that will not have the economy to run around. That is why we in my own municipality decided not to follow that model, but to make a class assignment that I believe much more in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115414	The next brief remark is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115417	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, which in many ways actually matches some of what we are concerned with on the part of the Left, namely that the process of these attempts is such that freedom really goes out to our staff in the institutions and does not go to the administration in the municipalities. That is why I think we have had some good meetings with the two municipalities under the auspices of the Committee on Children's and Education, in relation to what is planned. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something else. When we look at this experiment, I think, as I have also said several times, and I have actually also had the impression that SF has shared our view, that it is a pity that we dare not set two handfuls of municipalities free and only do it with two municipalities each place. Does the rapporteur see any possibility, when we are, like ourselves, having some experience, which lies precisely in the evaluation process, that we can then use it to transfer to other municipalities at that time, so that we can benefit from freedom along the way and not have to wait until the full attempt has been made in a few years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115523	By the end of the year, I believe that a reform of freedom should be agreed for the Danish primary school. My concern about allowing more people to become part of the experiment is not that I am completely opposed to that idea, if it was important for the Left, and you could probably also discuss it with the government. It's that it's a little messy something where they start at different times, and if it's two handfuls we give the freedom, does it postpone the need for a more fundamental reform of freedom? It is just to say that what is crucial to the SF is that this year we get the country a freedom reform that not only gives a few handfuls of municipalities more freedom, but all municipalities and all schools more freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115605	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115608	Thank you. We also want to give all 98 municipalities more freedom, not least in the area of primary education. We were probably so impatient that we had hoped that this had already happened last year and should not only happen this year. In other words, it was also planned that we should start some of those negotiations. Now the report on the reform of primary schools and the evaluation has been delayed again. We also find this a pity, because we need to give more freedom to our employees. When I ask about this, it is not just because we wanted it from the Left. Then it is because we can hear about the municipalities that there are actually municipalities which are quite envious of the four municipalities we are talking about and legislate about today and which have therefore discussed the reality of whether they could become part of the experiment. That is actually what I opened up to: that if we could say in agreement in this agreement like that if there are municipalities that want to do so much, then of course we are also willing to look at it. I really would like to know if the rapporteur is too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115709	In other words, the most important thing for us is to have a reform of freedom for all schools, and that does not mean that I will not look at it, but I will be fundamentally concerned if, if you start to say yes to all kinds of drip-exposed, I end up getting shot in the shoes from someone or from a majority, that all the municipalities that have not applied for freedom are not required to reform freedom. So let us at last discuss it and I would also like to discuss if municipalities are looking for it, but that is the fundamental reform of freedom for all primary schools that we think is most needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115743	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416115800	Thank you. This is a very good law, which gives freedom to day care institutions and schools, as all the rapporteurs before me have also mentioned. If I were to say one thing that I am sorry about the law, it is actually the date of it, because the weird situation has arisen that the municipality of Esbjerg and the municipality of Holbæk, which are here with us, would like to be exempted from the national tests, and then they cannot be, because this precisely hits into it well, it must then be explained to the Minister if we have found a solution to it since we last discussed, because that would seem to me to be very good. I'm very inspired by the way this proposal is made. In fact, I think that the government has thought something really wise about putting up fence posts, so instead of giving some tiny freedoms here, we are thinking what it is, which is the basic thing that must be the rules for, so as to be able to give the other freely. That is also the way we think in the Radical Left and the way we want to go to the debates we expect to have in the autumn about school. Now the rapporteur of the Left said this: it would be good if there were more municipalities in this experiment. I think I myself feel that I would actually rather have us discuss in the conciliation circle what kind of fence posts we thought should apply to all schools, so that we can help set all schools free. In this talk, I think that we, as politicians, should make an even greater effort to ensure that freedom is followed with purpose. For some of what I have also experienced has gone wrong with some of what we have done in the past is that even where we really thought we were doing freedom, that freedom was just hijacked by some others because we had done too little to talk about the purpose, and then there were some others who could fill the rules into it. That is why I actually think that freedom and purpose must go hand in hand. And now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was quite funny about what he read about the purpose here, and I would really like to say a little about it, because what is in the law here is really a little flat if you read it through. The aim of the law here is to develop welfare and increase quality, but if we think again, that is not really the point. In other words, the purpose of our day offers is well-being, learning, development, education and play, and at school it is that the students acquire knowledge and skills; it is real and imaginative, and it is that they gain confidence in their own opportunities and can take a position to act. So I think that, as politicians, we have a task in that, while we are giving more freedom, we must actually do something more to talk about the purpose, so I would like to take that in the next step.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120104	Thank you. In fact, I would just like the radical rapporteur to elaborate on what the radical rapporteur said about 'and it may well be that I was listening wrongly' that it was problematic that there were any fence posts at all. Well, I would just like to clarify that, because on the Left side we think it was more important that there were some fence posts, but that the fence posts did not fill it all, because then there was no freedom, for example. That the free choice of schools is not under discussion, that the free choice of institutions is not under discussion, and that this is, for example, the case here. do not include free schools. Fortunately, they now enjoy quite different degrees of freedom than primary school does, and it should not be kidded, because we now want to make freedom for primary school. So can the rapporteur not elaborate on what kind of fence posts the rapporteur thought were problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120151	In fact, my message is exactly the opposite. I think there is something wise in making fence posts, and I want that in the process we are going to start talking about the school, that is the way we think, that is what it really is for some fence posts, we want to apply to all schools rather than we look at all the rules we have and then just change a little bit in them. Mrs Marianne Jelved and I have started some discussions about the school, where we are just trying to focus on what the meaning of the school is and how great differences we can have between schools. And what kind of fence stakes do we need? As a concrete example, I would like us to have many more practical-music subjects. Has this really been done by giving more freedom to the individual school itself to influence how to weigh the subjects? Or does it require just a fence stake for us to get more practical-music because otherwise it will not be a priority in the economy and the priorities? And that is why I think we have that discussion with each other about what it is actually for some fence stakes that we think are important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120255	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no more brief comments. And thank the rapporteur for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is jumping, I see. It's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120312	The idea of setting the municipalities free on an experimental basis is not something that is basically new. It has appeared on a regular basis. I think it was the Schlüter Government which, in the mid-1980s, launched the first attempts. And it can also be said that it has been far from such an undivided success story. The starting point has probably always been that the state had put too many bureaucratic and inflexible frames on the work of the municipalities, but it is not always that the municipalities have seen the experiments as liberating. In fact, we need only two years back to see how KL's president advised the municipalities not to apply for free municipalities, because paperwork, coordination and applications filled far too much compared to the results that were to be achieved with the experiments. One might also say that the many attempts that have been made have not always been good at paving the way for change. But this time it is different, we must at least say and hopefully also mean. Hopefully, much has been learned from the not always good experiences that have been gained with the previous free municipalities attempts. In this respect, the release is very extensive in some areas, and I believe that a model has been found in which we do not stifle attempts at bureaucracy. So it's really good. We have welcomed the Government's initiative from the Enhedslisten and entered into the agreements which, in the areas we are discussing today, give this small handful of municipalities a great deal of freedom. We think a sensible model has been found, and I would like to emphasise that we are very pleased that so much emphasis is placed on confidence in the skills and judgement of employees. And we think it is very good that the municipalities will not be allowed to replace the state rules we abolish with new municipal rules, because then we would easily have been on the same level. I think this is a good starting point for new thinking. There has just been a debate about the fence posts, and I would say that perhaps there were a few fence posts I could have spared, but on the other hand we have entered this dialogue from the Enhedslisten side, on the assumption that if we would only have attempts with everything we do not like, while we clinged to what we really like, it could in any case dampen the possibilities of creating some degree of breadth in the way we work with the experiments, and we really do think that is sensible to seek in this context. So we hope that the welfare agreements will help create new initiatives and show new ways of developing the areas. We think, among other things. The Socialist People's Party has said that it is very important that they also pave the way for lasting change. And above all, I share the view that there are too many constraints in primary school. We have been fiercely opposed to target management, we do not like student plans, and we would like to see the national tests where the pepper grows. And it can be said that this particular attempt may not bring us closer, but nevertheless I hope that the whole idea of creating greater freedom and building on the skills and judgment of the employees will help to create a movement that can also free some of the areas that we do not address directly in relation to legislation here. So from here a warm support for the proposal. We look forward both to following the experiments carried out by the municipalities, but also to entering into a joint dialogue on the results of the experiments, and not least to three lines below. We hope that this will pave the way for us not only to put it up in the heap of yet another series of attempts at temporary arrangements, but that we will actually pave the way for a more general and lasting release, not least in the area of primary education, where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120748	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120806	Thank you, President. After all, the draft law on welfare agreements in the day-to-day and primary school areas is an agreement from December, in which we from the Conservative People's Party are involved, and where we help to free the municipalities' day-to-day and primary schools as much as possible by derogating from a number of provisions of the day-to-day and primary school law. This should provide greater room for action for employees and managers, which should help to increase quality and presence. From the conservative side we would have liked to see several municipalities being allowed to join this experiment, but of course we are glad that we start with these four, and then we can always hope that there are more who can come along along the way. But, of course, we support the agreement in which we ourselves are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120911	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, but there is a desire to get ready for the next rapporteur on the way. That is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416120941	If you ask me who's best at doing the best school, I think most people who are at least familiar with me know what the answer is. Because it is not the politicians, either at Christiansborg or in the municipalities, but they are the ones who have it every day. That is why I am very pleased that we are now setting a few municipalities free to make these attempts, but most happily we saw in New Citizens that schools were released in general; that we introduced the possibility that as families you could choose exactly the school you wanted and that the money followed the individual child and that you could vote with your feet. This means that if you had a poor school offer, you could choose something else. We fight for that every day. It's the only right way to do it, but of course this is a small step in the right direction. We really wanted this to have been something that had been spread out to all municipalities throughout the country and not just to the very few. And as has been mentioned earlier from the platform here, all the bureaucracy and all the administration that is being talked about is caused by the fact that politicians have been making a lot of rules for many years, in here in particular, but also in the municipalities, which make it really difficult to run schools. That is why we simply have to go down a completely new path in school. Because it is the leaders, and it is the teachers who, in cooperation with the parents and the children, are doing the best school. And there shouldn't be a one size fits all. There must be plenty of different opportunities that shoot up different places, with different approaches to how to teach and how to teach children the things they need to learn; how to form them, educate them and send them on. That must and must be absolutely fundamental. This is a small step in the right direction, but I will fight hard to ensure that we have a real choice to choose and choose from, including in this area, and that the money follows the individual child, and that politicians decide much, much less, and that the Danes decide much more for themselves, including in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416121215	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see the Liberal Alliance rapporteur in the Chamber. Since he is not present, I can give the floor to the Minister for Children and Education. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416121242	Thank you for a very good debate today, and thank you to all the parties supporting the bill. And thank you for the good negotiations on that when we had them. I would actually like to start by saying what Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby said about the fact that the legislation was marked by all of our sticking horses and specialities. That's exactly right. After all, the Folkeskole area is in a broad settlement, fortunately for it, and over the years we have each had our own sticks and specialities and things that we emphasised. I also think that Mr. Jakob Silverhøj said it very well, that if you weren't prepared to say that okay, this was my hoe-horse, you'll also have to give it freedom from, but then we'll end up in the same place. Because what is involved is that there is no evil behind the fact that you have ended up in a place where there is over-management of primary school. Because it's not every rule that's the problem, yes, it is, because it's not certain that we like each other's hoops, but it's not the individual hoop that's the problem, but it's the total amount of hoops that's come to control. So it is simply the total amount of rules that is the problem. That is why it is absolutely right that we should dare to say that it may well be that it was my hoe-horse, and it may well be that there really was an idea about it, but now we see whether it is not going well without all the rules. That's basically what's aimed at the whole thing. I am then asked whether we in the government are prepared to talk about whether there can be more municipalities coming under this experiment in relation to schools and day care centres. I just want to make it clear: no, we are not prepared to do so. In fact, I agree more with that, as Mr. Jacob Mark said, and, as I also believe, we can agree with each other, at least if I read the body language of the rapporteur of the Left correctly, that is to say that we all have a desire for greater freedom for all primary schools throughout Denmark, and that is what I see as the next step. Nor should we wait for these attempts to be completed. The Prime Minister also made this point in connection with the debate on this matter in this Chamber, in the light of the questions put by, among others, the President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. Lotte Rod. That means that the government has a handshake that we're gonna start these trials. These are the four municipalities, two times two, but it is not the case that we have to wait for those attempts to be completed before we can proceed with the discussion we had begun in the public school circle about further freedom to primary school. I would like to say that there has been a rather dismal evaluation of student plans. Well, we're gonna have to look at that one again. And I also think that there is a question of whether we have hit the cut right yet in relation to common objectives and there could be other things. This is exactly the discussion we had actually begun in the public school circle when the second wave of corona hit. In view of the fact that we actually had a discussion in the public school circle about it between the two waves of corona, I think that is actually a very good expression of the fact that this is something that we jointly give a very high priority to. That is why we had a discussion of it between the two corona waves. So says Mr. Jacob Mark... fresh enough with the dates. I wish I could just say yes, and that we have landed before Christmas. But I think this coronatide has taught me to be extremely careful. I do not remember how many times I have postponed the report on the reform of primary schools. I guess I'm up twice, and maybe there'll be a third. So it's just to say that hope is bright green, and we always think that now we are there and that now we can get started. But the corona is still pulling out a lot of teeth. However, this bill is simply the implementation of agreements concluded in December. It is a liberation of Holbæk and Rebild municipalities in relation to day institutions and by Holbæk and Esbjerg in relation to the folk schools. What is, of course, the intention is that the government has sent out a clear signal on this, and it is also in the agreement and everything that has been going on around it, and it is really important to bear in mind that it is not, therefore, the liberation of the municipalities from the state. It is a release of daily offers from the municipalities and the state. That weighting is extremely important, because I think that if, like in here from Christiansborg, we indicate that we have probably had quite a lot of cockhorses and highlights, then I should say that they have also had it in the municipalities, and they have been put on top of that. What is the whole idea here is to say that both the municipalities and that is what we have talked to the municipalities concerned about and have reached agreement on and also we from in here just step three steps backwards and say that both managers and teachers and parents and pupils can find out at least as well as we can in here. I think they can. So we believe that we will see a rise in commitment at school. I think that is exactly what happens when you release, namely that the joy of work increases for teachers and managers, and the commitment of parents and pupils also increases. At least that's what we're hoping to do in order to start these attempts at freedom. Anyway, like I said, this isn't a period. This is a starting-point for a debate on freedom, which does not only apply to two municipalities. We do not have to wait until the municipalities have finished their experiments. We need to discuss freedom in primary school, and we also need to do so in relation to the country's day-care institutions. You've just had a little luckier hand there. Mrs Lotte Rod is now smiling, and it was because not least Mrs Lotte Rod and, by the way, my colleague Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen were some of those who took the discussion about making a non-paragraph in the area of day-care, that is, not to put layers on layers in the management of day-care institutions. We are not yet in the finish line, but it was, however, a legislative break that came to where the non-paragraph was made. All honour and respect for it, and we can use it for a great deal in our further thinking, namely that you can actually see that you can put some brakes on how much you as a state and municipalities have to decide on the individual day offers. So that is at least one of the things I will be inspired by in the further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416121847	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416121852	Thank you. I have two questions. Firstly, the Minister answers very clearly what I asked about at the outset, namely whether the government was willing to look at whether more municipalities could be involved in the experiment. And I understand that the government is not willing to. I really think that this signal should have been sent out to the outside world a long time ago, as I know, many municipalities have already been discussing whether it was an opportunity to apply to the experiment. That is to say, they are good wasted powers that have actually been used. It is, of course, fortunate that there is such a great envy that you want to be part of an attempt at freedom, but I think that the government should consider very, very strongly what it is that we should, like, have answers jointly to the municipalities that the government does not think should share in freedom. As far as I and the Left are concerned, this is not a contradiction to the fact that we are going to have to reform the school of freedom; it is, of course, the question that when we have both partial evaluations and final evaluations in the legislative proposal we are discussing today, and it is also quite clear that we can continue to deal with it, why should we not also ensure that it actually becomes the subject of something that can be used in the municipalities on an ongoing basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122001	It certainly can. I cannot know why some people are taking the initiative and want to be on board. I really believe that we have been extremely clear about the fact that we did not want more than the two municipalities. I have heard that there are other parties who would have liked to have something else, but at least now it is clear from the platform that if anyone had misunderstood that what is in this agreement is two times two, and we do not open up the possibility that more people should be involved in this attempt, and that is not what lies behind this agreement, even though there are parties that have wanted it. And then just to say that when it has been important for the government to stress that this does not prevent us from looking at freedom in primary school in general, it is precisely to say that both the things we have already discussed in the public school circle and any results and partial evaluations and the final evaluation must be able to start. Therefore, it is important to say that those processes can run in parallel with each other, and this also announced the Prime Minister in connection with the presentation of the attempts at freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122106	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122107	Thank you for that answer. The second question I have relates to the fact that one thing is the law in force, but that we are about to deal with L 200, which introduces a large number of more reporting requirements in the area of day-to-day offers. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister a question. I do not see in L 200 that there is an exception for these municipalities, and that is why I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister really wants to ensure that this bill is true to what the world looked like when we made the agreement back in the autumn. For L 200 is something new that is now coming on top. Otherwise, it's not really freedom for these two municipalities. Then it will be freedom, but plus everything the government then makes up in the meantime. So I would really like to hear the Minister's reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122206	I will, and I really believe that we will have to do this in writing, so that we try to clarify what is happening in the future, so that we have it both in relation to the legislation we are going to have to look at shortly, but indeed also in relation to what Mrs Lotte Rod has said, that is, the national tests in relation to the date of entry into force. So there is something about what the relationship is with some other legislation. And in relation to that part, it is clear that both Holbæk and Esbjerg can exempt children from national tests this year because the dates have been pushed. However, there are some interface issues with other legislation that we need to look at, and I would like to say this to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Both for the sake of the municipalities concerned and also for the sake of future legislation, I think it is good that we should simply have a written basis so that we know what we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122254	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122257	Well, we're extremely happy about that in Esbjerg. So it's really nice to have it confirmed from the platform here too. But I just want to ask you something. Because I think that there are certainly a whole lot of people who are following this debate and who are thinking: how nice does it sound, everyone is talking about freedom, when is something going to happen? Now, in the debate we had before, we have agreed with each other that we would like to look at leisure education right after the summer holidays. So when does the Minister convene discussions on primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122323	After all, some people wondered why the government could not support a text of adoption that the government actually openly agrees with in the previous debate, and I would not, because I do not want to commit to it. And the same goes for here. For the corona has taught me that with dates we really need to be careful about this, because you put things in the outside world that you can't necessarily deliver on because we're not through the corona yet. So I simply do not want to settle on a date and I said that I thought that Mr. Jacob Mark was very fresh about saying that we had an agreement before Christmas, and I wish he were right about that. But we must also see if that can be done. But I have very little desire to commit myself to the dates when we can convene the next conciliation meeting. We are still holding meetings in what is called the political follow-up group, which is the group that has been set up because we are in a corona situation, which means that, as things stand, we do not even have stable conciliation meetings in one area in the field of education. So it's just to say that I just don't know when we can move to the other. But it is, of course, a discussion that we must also have in the political follow-up group when we re-establish normal daily life. My bid is that we are not there at all yet because we still have some of the schools closed in the capital even more than the rest of the country. Yeah, so we're not there yet, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122434	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122435	I think we should talk about this with each other, because it is our wish in the Radical Left that we should start this immediately after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122445-2	I have also heard the Radical Left rushing both to make a statement on the primary school and to hear the Radical Left rushing to review the evaluation system, that is to say to make a replacement for the national tests, something which the Radical Left has been very concerned about for years, and I have also heard the Radical Left really paying attention to the question of the distribution of pupils and leisure education, which we have just been debating. It's just to say that I think we're all preoccupied with a lot of different things and that every time you come across something new of what's your heartblood, you can't say that it all has to start after the summer break. This simply cannot be done, and right now we are 80 days away from the summer holidays. So it's also just to say that the amount of time left on this side of the summer break is short and that then there are some tough priorities in relation to a sequence. Of course we will come back to that, but whether it will be August, September, October will depend on how long it will take to get through this, and I think that we should just stop blurring people in relation to precise dates in the current situation. That is simply not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122550	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122554	In other words, one gets nowhere at least if one does not have ambition, and one can of course get quite high on all the things we have to get through and where I think we can land broad settlements: a substitute for national tests, a new way of distributing pupils in our education, freedom for folk schools, away with the curriculum. And I think we can do a lot this year, and I am also quite convinced that we can achieve this freedom reform. It will certainly be a very important request from the SF, I would say, after the summer break. It doesn't matter that we don't make it by then, I actually think that people in the school world think it's nice that they have the opportunity to concentrate on it right now. So my question is really now that we have given a lot of freedom until the summer holiday with the emergency education notice, or what we should call it: what does the Minister say about continuing some of the degrees of freedom immediately after the summer holiday, because the corona has just come so close to the summer vacation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122651	I simply believe that we should look at this together, and we have promised that, and now it has become the penultimate reopening agreement because there was a new one tonight, that is to say to go in to look at what we are doing in relation to next school year, both in relation to professional delays and well-being and the organisation of the school year. There we have said that we would be ready at the beginning of May, and I think that, in fact, will still hold out, that is, when we reach the beginning of May, the government will be ready to make a bid. I am quite convinced that one of the ways to solve the new inequality that has actually arisen on the back of the corona is, of course, a large degree of freedom to organise at school, which is based on where the pupils are. For there is a small group of pupils who have actually gained more from distance learning than normal teaching. So there's a small group of students who've tossed out there. Then there is a large middle group, where I am convinced that the teachers will be able to deal with this very quickly once the children are back in school. Then there is a research that says that there are about 20 per cent, where it has been really difficult to get something out of teaching at home, and at the same time some well-being problems are dragged with them. This is a fairly diverse picture, and I think it is important that teachers should have as many tools as possible to do what is right for each student, and that is something different. That is why I think it is quite appropriate to have a debate on freedom. In other words, it is both today in relation to the actual municipalities and for the primary school at all, but it is especially so when we talk about the time after corona. So I am certainly open to having a talk with each other about how we do things in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122835	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122837	I am glad of that, because we will be taking that into account in the negotiations. In fact, I think that freedom is more crucial than having some sort of pool money made for something that then comes very scattered, to put it plainly. For the freedom to determine the resources that are already there is something that bats, and then there has been a lot of talk about extending the number of experiments. I mean, it's just a recital: in fact, we're in the process of a massive attempt. After all, we have given all schools in Denmark a great deal of freedom until the summer holidays, and it could of course put the need for freedom reform at risk if the Minister wants to buy out time, if they say that until such a reform of freedom is in place, some of the basic freedoms that they already have. But I look forward to negotiating that further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416122921	This is, of course, the decision we have taken together in the first place until the summer, and I think that is quite clearly right if I am to point out what is actually the heaviest tool. We've set 600 million. kr. It is a great deal of money and we have together with each other and with the other support parties to the government also set aside a very large amount of money for the primary school, which means that a great deal of additional resources have been made available for the primary school. If, in the present situation, you have to make up for whether it is the extra money in relation to the corona or that is the extra freedom in relation to organising the school day, which makes the best sense in terms of dealing with the challenges that a class can face and the students can face, then I am absolutely convinced that what is about giving the teachers that freedom weighs really heavily and possibly even heavier than the extra resources. Then we should also bear in mind that, after all, only the number of teachers is there, and that means that there is simply a limit to the amount of resources that can be deployed at all. But now a lot of money has been set aside, and I think that has been fine and good, but that freedom, of course, means a lot. Then there's just one single detail. I asked in the Ministry after the first hard shut-down in the spring how much of what was going on out there in connection with the reopening and where there was outside teaching and a different organisation of the school week and all these things that were actually a ban on doing when we were in normal circumstances. There it turned out that the vast majority of what they did was therefore to be allowed within the framework of the primary school law. For I asked: is there such a lot of legislative proposals that we can put forward in order to give the same freedoms? Well, most of it is allowed. So it is just to say that some of it then lies in objectives and that we are trying to steer in a certain direction, and we are going to look at that. But it was just thought-provoking for me to find out that most of what was going on could also be done on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123114	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister and also thanks for just getting the platform ready for the next speaker. No one else has asked to speak now, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123139	The debate is open. The first to speak is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123155	Thank you for that, President. L 200 is a proposal for a law amending the day-to-day law, collecting data, minimum standards in day-to-day institutions. After all, the bill before us is the first step towards the effective implementation of the agreement on minimum standards concluded by the Government with the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative in December 2020. I can imagine, also in the light of the debate that has been going on right now with the Minister, that there are a number of things waiting impatiently to see the agreement fully exploited. But as you know, the corona has caused a great many delays in the field of children and education. Then I also note that legal requirements for minimum standards will not enter into force until 2024. So we are now in the process, and I think that is most welcome. As part of the agreement, the contracting parties agreed to extend the day-offer portal with the aim of increasing transparency at institutional level. In addition, increased transparency should help to strengthen parental involvement locally, for example. by parents' boards. Following this, the parties to the agreement agree that the quality of data in the day-to-day supply area should be strengthened. The purpose of the draft law is therefore to implement the part of the agreement on improving data quality and ensuring that relevant information on individual offers can be collected, compiled and published in the future. In addition, improved data quality must provide a basis for us to be able to comply with the commitments in the agreement to be able to establish standards at institutional level in 2023. The legislative proposal here is therefore fundamental for us to move forward in the process of minimum standards. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123410	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that the educators lack the time they need to fill out schedules, operate computer programs and make reports and send them to the minister, because that is what this bill is about. It is about taking time that you could spend with the children, and instead of using it to make more registrations, in fact to a not insignificant extent, it appears if you read the bill. That is why I would just like to hear from the rapporteur when the time that teachers are not going to spend on children but need to spend on reporting this and that should come from, for example. with the little day care mother. Well, when is she supposed to leave the kids alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123458-2	In my performance world when I read this through here it is so that this is primarily something that the municipal administration should have figures on, and those figures should be passed on. It is not in my world of performance a careful registration outside the individual day care mother or in the individual day care institution. I am sometimes a little surprised that you do not have the data base, but I think that is a very good thing to be provided in order to ensure the best possible quality of the offers you have to make, and sometimes you have to leave evidence to improve the conditions, and I think this agreement is a step on the way to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123543	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123544	Of course there must be documentation and openness. That is why with the 2018 agreement, when there was no block policy in this area, but where all parties were invited to negotiations, we made a broad agreement anchored here in the Folketing, which among other things. was about the Day Offer Portal, where we just got some information. But basically, if you read the comments in this draft law, there will be an opportunity in future to obtain information and information on everything, and that is why I think it is really appropriate to ask the rapporteur about the time that should then leave the children and be spent on bureaucracy instead of: when is it they are going to do it? That's one thing. The second point I would like to ask the rapporteur is that we now have to publish all the exact addresses of day care providers today. What is the reasonableness of that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123634	Well, I do not think it is unreasonable that any municipality should be able to explain how many employees there are at a specific address. I do not think it is unreasonable to be able to draw the attention of parents to where the individual offers which their children may receive are found. So I find it hard to get upset that there is a desire from here to get more uniformity in the knowledge you have about the offers you have to parents and children. I find it a little difficult to see the problem here and, by the way, one of the problems is that bureaucracy in relation to these schemes is one of the things that has been allowed to grow most, so that would be a welcome opportunity to have a look at it too, I would guess. Now I am not going to be in the forthcoming negotiations, but I know there are good people in this Chamber who have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123726	The next brief remark is from Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123740	Thank you. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur where social democracy is in relation to minimum standards. The reason I am asking is that I remember during the last parliamentary term that the Social Democratic Party actually agreed with Conservatives on social norms. I also remember that the Social Democratic Party went to elections on social norms. That is why I would really like to hear where social democracy is in relation to minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123801	Well, we are exactly behind this bill, which is intended to provide the basis for clarifying exactly what the rapporteur is asking. We have to recognise that it is the case that there is a discussion about the level of action to be taken. Should it be at municipal level and therefore with respect for municipal autonomy, or should it be at institutional level? This proposal does not clarify that. Here it is proposed that you get a proper data base to discuss on, and then I am sure that my party will find the right location in it. However, there is a fundamental discussion, and the rapporteur is right about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123842	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123844	Can the rapporteur come a little closer to this in relation to whether social democracy is for or against minimum standards? I really would like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123858	Well, we are in favour of this bill, which states that we must find a proper basis for minimum standards. So it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123908	Then there were no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. The next rapporteur on the platform comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416123939	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are discussing today is, of course, a general and fundamental draft bureaucracy law. This is a legislative proposal which will impose bureaucratic burdens on our staff in the day institutions. This is being done under the guise of introducing a model for minimum standards, a model which has not yet been negotiated, a model which we do not know what contains. I just have to say that on the Left side, we do not believe that our educators have time in excess. We would like to support a model in which we get more educators and more educational staff out in our day offer to take care of our children, but they do not need more bureaucracy. They do not need their precious time to fill out schedules and report various things. For basically, this bill allows you to obtain an unlimited amount of data from out there... unlimited. It must be laid down in an announcement and something else afterwards; it is, in fact, only the imagination that limits how much bureaucracy you can get with this bill. If we just look at some of the things that are then mentioned, which you will need to spend time registering instead of spending time with our children, so make sure that they get the care they need; make sure that they get to the playground, that they get professionally trained and that they are motor-developed; then you now need to spend time on information such as the date of registration and withdrawal of children, the categories of staff, the period of employment, the age of the children at the transition to school, average sick leave among the staff, and these can be other relevant quality indicators and, among other things, the number of children in the school system. It is not an exhaustive list. It is true that we have seen some of that today. Some of this is something that we support as well. After all, this is the whole basis for the broad agreement that we made in 2018 in relation to the Daily Offers Portal. This was when we were broadly anchored in the Folketing negotiating this area, when we did not make block politics on child policy in the Folketing, but where we had a VLAK government and before it a Left Government, who actually invited all the parties of the Folketing to negotiations in the field of children's affairs, where we made both the 1,000-day programme and made the effort, where we introduced social norms in our day offer, where we made the new educational curricula, and where we took a number of initiatives together. Now we have chosen to make block policy in this area, and that is why the Left has not been involved in the negotiations on this or the other things that the Red Parties have agreed with the government. But I can say that if we had been involved in the negotiations, we would have said quite clearly that what we need is time for our children, not time for bureaucracy. If you look at it, like the Data Protection Agency, for example. Takes note of their response to the consultation, so they say: "The Data Protection Agency should recommend that the Ministry of Children and Education give further consideration to whether the correct legal basis for treatment is Article 9·, which means that it is sensitive data that we are talking about here, since, in the opinion of the Data Protection Agency, that treatment cannot be directly contained within the provision in question. So we're not just talking about bureaucracy and about time being taken from our children; we're also talking about data collection, which the Data Protection Agency, according to their consultation answers, has concerns about. And that is why I really think it would have been nice if we had not had a government that had a block policy in the area of children, but that had actually called for wide-ranging negotiations on the desire that we all share: how can we strengthen the children's area in Denmark; how can we ensure better standards; how can we ensure that all children and young people have a safe upbringing; how can we ensure that there are also more employees with an educational professional background out there who can take care of the children who are most in need? This bill doesn't contribute to that. It helps to distort, it helps to criticize. This is also evident from, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom. KL's hearing response, as shown by a number of the other consultations. If you look at the economy associated with that, because money is set aside for the economy, then you can also see that the block policy agreement that you have made, which has been about closing all the private services in the area of day care, has not taken account of day care, because they have not wanted to be included in an agreement, because you have only wanted to include the municipal kindergartens, then you can also see that, in relation to the bureaucracy of this bill and the financial implications of the bill, you choose only to compensate the municipalities, and not all the institutions that lie under our free schools, and not all the self-serving and private institutions. They must have zero kroner for the additional reporting and bureaucracy burden that they now receive. The municipalities must have 10 million. kr., so that they can hire some more in the administration or use the time from kindergarten to make reports. So, yes, we think there are problems with this bill, and that is why we will not be making our position known here at first reading. We are going to ask about all these things in the legislative process, because we were actually of the opinion that we should create more time for our children, create better kindergartens and not more bureaucracy for our employees in our day-to-day services. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made on the rapporteur's framework, first from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124505	This is a milestone, because this is what will form the basis for minimum standards. And that is why the Left is not in it, nor is it going to the Left as long as the Left does not want minimum standards. And I have really been excited about the debate today because I had hoped that the Left would now just accept that we have tried to make a fundamental change in the day-to-day policy in Denmark, where, like a class ceiling, we also decide that there must be minimum standards in all day-to-day institutions. What you want to know from the day care institutions is how many people have been trained, when children start in day care, what menopause is from crèche to kindergarten, and what the standards are. I just want to ask you first of all, because things were said a little wrong, but we can get back to that. What is the difference between this and what Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's herself was doing as a minister in the school area, where you can find even more details and where you can go to the website and shop around? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124609	After all, it is fun that the SF rapporteur can stand and claim that the Left does not want better standards in the institutions or that we do not want to ensure a minimum of professional staff among our children and around our children. We have never refused to enter into a debate on this, but we have not been invited. For the government we have now, the Socialist Government and the Red Support Parties, has chosen to make block policy in the field of children, and this has been done from day one, despite the long tradition of having broad negotiations and broad agreements in the field of children. And I find that extremely sad. Take e.g. the social norms that we introduced when we were in government. It was precisely a targeted effort in which a minimum was set in relation to some of our most vulnerable and vulnerable children, where we said: listen to me, it is no use that we do not have extra profits in this area. So you might ask: why weren't we invited, Mr. Jacob Mark? Because then I actually think you could have found a balance where we don't spend 20%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. kr. extra from parents every year as you do with the agreement that has been made where you don't close the private institutions and where you don't push the day care completely outside, because they obviously don't need any more resources. Yes, there are many things that we would have liked to have done differently, but we have never said that we would not be involved in negotiating to make our day offer better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124732	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124734	In other words, this is unusual for the rapporteur, how populist the speech is. Firstly: Yes, you spend 20%. au administration. I am very opposed to that, too. So did the previous government, where Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby was minister. The 20%. can then cover the costs of this system that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby does not think is high enough. I would say that there will be plenty of administration in this agreement. Secondly, the rapporteur does not answer my question as to what the difference is in relation to the school area. But my only question now has to be: Does the Left believe that there must be minimum standards in Denmark? Because that's what I asked. For the last four years, the Left has not meant it. That's why the Left was not invited. Does the Left believe that there should be minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124817	We have said from the very beginning that we wanted better standards; and we wanted equal standards. In other words, we do not want a minimum model for closing private kindergartens in Denmark, where you do not include day care and where you do not even want to discuss it. So if it is a discussion about what the entry ticket was for the negotiations, then the Left has said from the very beginning that we wanted to strengthen our children's area. We did the same when we were in government, most recently with the agreement on the first 1,000 days of the child, where we put 1 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. kr. We have lifted up the children's area time and time again while we were in government, and so we indicated both in the election campaign and subsequently that we wanted to be part of it anyway. Nevertheless, the Socialist Government chose to make block policy in this area, and today we have one of the legislative proposals which unfortunately introduce more bureaucracy and no more time for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124912	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416124914	I actually think it sounds very good that the Left would like to ask a number of questions. Because we should not ask for any additional data that we do not need, nor should we do so in any bureaucratic way that is difficult for them out there. So, of course, it has to be at a minimum. But the rapporteur himself has been a minister, and by this the rapporteur also knows that what we have been discussing in here, I want to say 100 years, is that you have not been able to get a true statistic because Danmarks Statistik has come back and has said: the municipalities are debating it in all sorts of different ways, and therefore we cannot say anything about it. So my question to the rapporteur should just be: does the Left Radical Left share the wish that we should have trained educators in our institutions? And if the Left shares that wish, does the Left agree that it also requires that we know something about it before we can know what it is that we have to pay for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125010	Fortunately, we know both where we have the problems and where we have some things to do better in our day offer. Most municipalities have a very clear perception of, e.g. who are teaching assistants and who are educators. I'm not really worried about that part of the report. We have that knowledge today. What I'm worried about in this bill is that there are really no limits to data collection. There are no limits to bureaucracy in this bill, and I am sure there would have been if there had been more people in the negotiating room who could have insisted that this was about creating more time for children and no more time for some paper tigers and for some bureaucracy that takes time away from children. But yes, we do not just share the position of the Radical Left; it has been our own position all the way through. We share the wish that there should be more educational staff in our institutions. That is also why we have proposed taking advantage of the fact that there were in fact more, for example. In the course of the training course, which had applied for more than there were places for, it was also in relation to the creation of additional internships. That is why we have pointed out that it is important that, if we are to talk about either equal standards, better standards, higher standards or minimum standards... dear child has many names... then we also need to look at how to train the qualified staff to follow. Hands aren't just hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125125	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125127	Then we are actually in the same place, and then we agree that we would like to know how many trained educators there are. That is why I am actually thinking that we may just have to agree that we will talk again once we have the announcement, because I think that the rapporteur will see in the announcement that it is exactly how many adults there are and what their educational background is that we are getting data on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125155	After all, it is wonderful and wonderful that the radical rapporteur would like to invite us to a broad cooperation. That's just not what has happened, and that's why it's like that, according to the contractual cultures in this Parliament, that the Left is not going to see the announcement. It only goes to the government and the red parties, because you're the ones who made a deal. We haven't been invited, because they didn't want that. There has been a desire to create block politics in the field of children, led by the SF and the Social Democrats and perhaps also the Radical Left who knows. At any rate, I note that we have not been invited once and that there is now block policy in the field of children, although I have not heard a single party that has not indicated both before the elections and after the elections, that one would like to take responsibility, that one would like to take part in negotiations and that one would like to take part in raising the children's area. That is why, in committee, we are going to ask the questions we consider relevant, both about the concerns of the Data Protection Agency, but also about the amount of bureaucracy and the lack of compensation for the free schools and private institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125250	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is ready, and this is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Marie Krarup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125311	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party we feel a bit like the Left that we do not want to say 'yes' or 'no' to this bill today. At first glance, it looks completely innocent and almost indifferent, for who can be against having more openness and getting more knowledge of the areas in which we work? It seems perfectly logical that we should, of course, have more information. However, if you look closely, we think that there is a danger that more bureaucracy will be created and that we risk taking time away from children and from the main core task, which of course is to take care of our children. That is why we will not be able to say whether we can support the draft law until we know a little more about it. We would like to have a guarantee that this does not mean that time is spent on paperwork rather than on the core task. That is why we would like answers from the Minister to some of the questions from today's debate in committee. We would like an answer as to whether it is the case that we can feel absolutely sure that this will not be a bureaucratic burden on the institutions and, in particular, on those who are not compensated, that is, the private and self-serving institutions, so that it will actually become a problem for the children who are in the institutions. Openness and information are, of course, plus words, and we are totally in favour of this, but we are more concerned about bureaucracy and paperwork and about the fact that there will be children in the institutions being waved away, because now you have to fill out another table. We don't think that would be good. But we expect that to be answered either in today's debate or in committee, and then we will be able to say more clearly what we think about it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125524	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125529	I have very high expectations of the Danish People's Party in terms of minimum standards, because the Danish People's Party in the election campaign, as the only bourgeois party, was out saying that the Danish People's Party wanted minimum standards. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what are we going to do about minimum standards if we do not know what the standards are in today's institutions or what the level of education is? How, then, does the rapporteur think that the data that makes it possible to make a law on minimum standards should be collected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125609	We have nothing against more data and more knowledge in this area. That's what I just said. It would be really, really stupid to have that attitude. But if it is the case that more time passes from the children by registering more, then we think it is a bad idea. Then you have to do it at another time or in another way or add more resources at the same time. Furthermore, we do not believe that minimum standards are solutions to everything. We would like there to be more educated people in the institutions, but we also think that other things should be ensured. We have proposed a system in which children can be better cared for at home. This is a way of reducing the number of children in the institutions, so it is not just a matter of increasing the number of people employed in the institution. It is also a question of looking at the children in a different way. We also want to see more room for day care providers; something that has largely gone out today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125702	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125705	There's been a drop of money. It's a total of 1.8 billion. kr. I believe that this is the greatest boost to a welfare area for decades. And of them, unfortunately, 20 per cent are targeted administration due to a practice in KL. So I'm thinking the money is there for the administrative. And then I would just like to say that the comments to the law state that it is assumed that requirements and the provision of information must take account of the time spent by the teaching staff and that this must not lead to new measurements of children and the educational work beyond the intentions of the strengthened teaching curriculum. It is just to say: we would like to discuss if the Danish People's Party needs narrow it in more depth. But I think we have actually tried to take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125751	I think that is very fine, and that is what we would like to see drilled out: whether the promise actually holds true. Because we see in the consultation answers that there is at least a great deal of concern about this. And may I not say that when you say that you have set aside so much money for minimum standards, that is what we see as a bit of a problem: that you do not set aside money to support, that families can care for their own children, or for day carers. We would like more things to be looked at when it comes to children, and not just the staffing of the institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125829	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and he is. Jacob Mark. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416125906	We're close now, aren't we? In other words, during the last parliamentary term I had many consultations and resolutions and questions, as to whether or not it was time to introduce minimum standards in Denmark. And the answer of the then government was clear: no, we should not. On the other hand, the government of that time did a lot of other good things. Money was set aside for social norms and raised the day-to-day supply area through targeted money for education. But when we thought and continue to believe that minimum standards are needed in Denmark, it is because there are basic problems in the day-to-day provision area with too few adults for children and because there are fundamental problems when we see alone time surveys where adults each week stand alone with 17 children or more. And because there are fundamental problems when there are documentaries showing, close to what I think is a failure of care, and because there are fundamental problems when thousands of people have to go on the streets to appeal to decision-makers to hire more staff. There is a need for whatever daycare institution you open the door to, you know that there is a bottom, that there is a basic minimum of adults who can give children the attention they deserve. Because it is the children it is about, and there must be adults enough to see them, play with them, comfort them and make sure that the plans we have for their development become reality, and it must be a working environment that is to endure. That is why social norms are not enough. Social norms are really important for breaking the negative social heritage. That is why we have also protected the social standards in this agreement on minimum standards and said that there are minimum standards and then there are social standards upstairs. And we're really close now. But before we can make the law on minimum standards to ensure that in all day nurseries there must be an adult for three children and that in all kindergartens there must be an adult for six children, then it requires that we have the data. For the day-off area has been the Wild West. We haven't figured out how many adults there were for the kids. We have no idea what their education was. We have no idea when they started. So the fact that you now get better data and that's what we write in the proposal here is that we need to know how much the proportion of educators is, how does the standards look, when do the children go from nursery to kindergarten? This is the basis on which the law on minimum standards can be drawn up in the autumn, which is a historic milestone in the field of children. That's why this law is important. Just to take on the documentation requirements, which the educators and parents support here, by the way. Why are standards important? Well, I've been through that: we need to know how many adults there are for the kids. Why is it important to know how trained staff are? It is because we know that some of what best breaks the negative social heritage and strengthens children's development is that it is trained staff. Why is it important that we know when children go from nursery to kindergarten? This is because the municipalities have saved tons of money to keep moving children faster from crèche to kindergarten. We need to know that. We need to know these things so that we can put an end to those austerity exercises so that we can ensure that there is a bottom in all day institutions. That is why this proposal is important, and that is why we are now very close to celebrating the creation of a more welfare right, similar to the class ceiling, similar to some of the health rights we have, such as the Left. I've been doing a lot of work. It's pretty fucking historic. I'm sorry, I've been told that it's not even a fucking word, but it's historic that we're now getting minimum standards in Denmark. But in order to get it, we need to adopt this first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130301	I would like to say that I think it is incredible to hear that the SF rapporteur, with whom I usually agree relatively when it comes to strengthening the children's area, seriously believes that red tape in the area of children is the whole prerequisite for us to be able to lift up the children's area. 20% of the money allocated must go to administration, or can you Left support transparency about this. There are data that is necessary to obtain. I myself was a minister when Denmark's Statistics published the first classification statistics, which, in a nice word, were all the way to the forest because you could not use those data for anything. So, of course, there is a need for a minimum of data. We also agreed on this back in 2018 with the day-offer portal. This bill just doesn't set any limits on how much data can be obtained. And that is why my concern is that this bill will not be the important first step towards minimum standards, but will be a setback in relation to how one also trusts that the municipalities and our educators can assess when it is the management that is the problem, when it is the quality, when it is some other tools to be used, than just reporting to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130424	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130428	The information we are asking for is quite basic information that the questioner himself has been involved in asking for in the field of school. There's a school portal where you can shop around all this information. The rapporteur himself has helped to create this, so I do not quite understand the problem. And you cannot make minimum standards where you say there must be one adult for three children in all day nurseries and one adult for six children in all kindergartens if you do not know how many are out there. One cannot demand how many people need to be trained if one does not know how many have an education out there. So, of course, we need to know. And the comments actually state that the things you ask for must not lead to new measurements, must not lead to something that is not educational. And if there is to be further tightening on what you can use it for, then we will discuss it with the heart. But we need that data to be able to make minimum standards. Then I have to say about what the questioner says about 20% being spent. It is a practice which the Left Government itself has had for 10-15 years when they have negotiated with the KL. I can then welcome the questioner's view that right now, in the Internal Affairs Committee, we have a report on where we are going to deal with that practice and I expect the Left to support it. But perhaps the questioner can say a little about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130534	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130537	We can discuss the report, which is basically about whether it is the Folketing that has to negotiate with KL or whether it is the government that has to negotiate with KL. And whether it is a Social Democratic government or a Left Government, we now insist on the principle that it is not the Folketing that negotiates with the KL, but that it is the government that negotiates with the KL. And that's sort of what you're doing up with with that report, but it's kind of a different discussion in relation to this. This does not alter the fact that, in terms of content, the agreement made by the red parties is spending a great deal of money on administration, and that is also what this draft law is about. It is about obtaining information which is far beyond what we have discussed in the past. For we have a day-offer portal today; we agreed it jointly in 2018. This bill is, in effect, without limits, and that is what we are questioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130628	After all, we cannot put an end to administrative practices where every time you make a welfare expenditure for the municipalities, you have to spend 20% if the big parties in the Folketing do not say that we have to do that, because it is only the government that can do it. Then it will always end with us never changing it. So let us finally get together and put up with this crazy practice, where so much money is going to be spent on administration. Fortunately, however, a total of 1.8 billion has been set aside. kr. Every year, and a law is being drawn up on minimum standards that will make it impossible to save children any longer. It's fantastic, and it's historic, and I'm very happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130659	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130713	Thank you. I really would also like to say many things about the importance of our day offer and the fact that there are adults enough with our children. In the Radical Left, we are working to ensure that we have both a management that is present, that there are trained educators and educational assistants and that there are norms that you can be with the children in small groups, because it is presence that matters. Today we are really discussing a rather boring corner of it, namely statistics. The bill here is intended to enable us to obtain information on what the norms are, how many trained educators and educational assistants there are, when children move up from nursery to kindergarten, and when they start school. We must always think carefully when we ask for registrations. There I am quite in line with what both Left and DF have said. That is why I think it is actually a good thing that we should be asked some questions so that we can be absolutely sure that with this, of course, we are asking for nothing other than what is necessary. I have not myself been on such a very long course at Danmarks Statistik, but I do remember the meeting we had together in here, where we liked Denmark's Statistics on the blade and asked: Why don't you just give us a true statement of the norms? Why can it be difficult? The answer to us was that it is based on the fact that the municipalities decide in different ways that they are simply different accounts from municipality to municipality. This means that much of what we are asking for now is not something new, but more of a question of how we get it done in a way so that we can actually see the figures across the municipalities. That is what it takes for us to make the law on minimum standards. That is why the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130924	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Can we get this conversation down a little bit? Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416130941	For many years I have been close to the discussions that took place between the trade union organizations and the National Association of Local Authorities on the norms of the day institutions, and found over a decade, perhaps 20 years, how the lack of data in itself constituted a complication in terms of having a serious political discussion of the norms of the day institutions. I have a past in a professional organization, and every time we brought new data in this area, it was told that it was impossible to discuss it because data did not fit because KL had some other data. In fact, the State could not, throughout the long period, provide a reasonable valid statistic which proved the facts, and therefore any debate on the norms ended in a snitch talk about whether one or the other party's figures were correct or wrong. This has been partially corrected in recent years. In the daily life of daily institutions, there has never been any doubt that there is a shortage of staff. You don't need a lot of statistics to see that, because you can just go out there a normal everyday life. However, the statistics have been completely opaque and in many ways it is still gone, because Denmark's Statistics includes staff who are not present at all while working with the children. This is the case with the managers who sit and do their job in the offices, who are expected to do so, and the staff who are at home in their sick bed are expected to be actually assigned because they are fortunately paid during illness. But it's been moving. We are not in the end, but we are constantly taking the step towards getting proper and valid data in this area. For Enhedslisten, it has been very important that we not only talk about standards at an average level. It doesn't help much when you stand alone with a group of 17 children to know that, in return, there are very good standards in the neighbouring institution or over in quite a different neighborhood. That is why it has been important for us to have minimum standards established at institutional level and, in order to provide a sound basis for establishing this, there is indeed a need for a proper and valid data base to be established. That's what we're doing with this legislation. There we remove some obvious barriers that exist in order to actually set standards at institutional level. The Minister can add that himself, but there is no commitment that we should have standards at institutional level. It's a discussion we've had. On the other hand, we have had the fear in the Enhedslisten that if we did not provide a proper data base, we could end up with the same plainly stated bang and tot-discussion, which I have participated for 15-20 years, between professional organisations and KL about which figure is correct. At least now we will have the opportunity to discuss, on a factual basis, whether we want minimum standards at institutional level or whether we do not want them. In addition, with these data, we also provide an opportunity for you to go deeper at the local level. It will not immediately be in Danish Statistics' accounts, but there will be work on the data in such a way and recommendations that municipalities, together with parents, can work down to the institution's everyday life to uncover what many refer to as child-level norms. So here we are creating a reasonable basis for this. Better data in itself does not provide better standards, and better data in itself is not a victory. It may end up using the oceans of resources on unnecessary bureaucracy. None of the parties behind this agreement have wanted that. We want as much time as possible to be spent in direct educational work with children, so it is, as far as I am concerned, a self-experience that lack of data has completely blocked a serious political debate and to move forward with minimum standards. That is why we very much appreciate the fact that there is a proper data base. This is, of course, part of the agreement we have made, and that is why we do not support the proposal so surprisingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131440	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131447	Thank you. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that more bureaucracy does not provide better standards, and that is also why we have not indicated how we are going to deal with this bill. Because we are going to use the committee procedure to get rid of how much bureaucracy is really involved in this bill. We will also use it to bore out why it is that once again the support parties and the government choose not to compensate the day institutions, for example. are below the free schools, or the self-serving or private ones. They should not then be compensated for their administrative burdens; only municipalities should be compensated. The others just need to be reported. I would really like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur, because the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in the past has not concealed the fact that the Enhedslisten wanted, at least, that there should be fewer different types of day-to-day offers in Denmark, how it could be that neither the free schools nor the self-owned institutions nor the private institutions would be compensated for their administrative burdens. That is one question. The second question I would like to put to the rapporteur, because the rapporteur knows the day care area so well, is why you should have the exact address of where day care providers live, forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131557	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131603	That's a lot of questions. Firstly, I do not think that we are providing superfluous data, but it is good that questions are being asked. We do not need to establish superfluous data, so let us look at it in committee. After all, the administrative agreements with the self-serving institutions are being made in the municipalities, and there has to be a discussion about how much the self-serving institutions must be compensated for, and for those outside the general interest in the institutions, that is part of the task that the private institutions themselves have undertaken to solve. Finally, as far as day care is concerned, I know that it can be sensitive, i.e. the whole discussion about how many data should be on day care. I think it is wise, also for the survival and visibility of day care, that you can see in the municipalities where there is actually a chance to have your child in day care, and I think it is sensible that there should be transparency about these data in day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131711	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131714	Of course, you have to be able to see where there are day carers. This is usually dealt with by indicating that in the area below me the area can be Broager or Broager town or Sønderborg inner city • you can see where it is. But you have day care in your own private home, and what is being proposed now is that it is their private address that must appear, and not the area in which they are located. That is, of course, one of the objections, and I would just like to hear that, since the rapporteur knows the area of day care, whether the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, thinks it is a necessary report or whether it is in the category of over-reporting, bureaucracy and/or person-sensitive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131756	Well, immediately I don't think that's too much data to provide. I agree that this area can be sensitive and I have been involved in an incredible number of discussions with day care providers, for example. about the fact that the individual day care provider must personally present himself and his skills with pictures, and what do I know on the web; there are many feelings about that. However, my assessment is that we do not provide any unnecessary data here, nor have I heard from the association of which I myself am still a member, any objections to this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416131851	Thank you very much. After all, this bill is part of the agreement on minimum standards between the government and the support parties, and it is a question of setting up the collection of data for the day-offer area, and this data collection should then provide a basis for transparency on the conditions of day-offer, says the bill. On the Conservative side, we have a concern about some things in connection with data acquisition. To this extent, it may be good in some cases to obtain data, but it says, among other things, that unlimited data can be obtained, and we have a concern about that, and indeed we have about the time that will be spent on obtaining this data: that it will simply also result in a lot of bureaucracy. So we really want to find out more about this in connection with the committee work and then ask some questions about it. So we wait until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132020	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132049	I would like to start by saying that it is a little paradoxical to hear the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party stand and talk about more freedom for the individual institutions in connection with the proposal we discussed earlier today, and now see the rapporteur in what is more state governance. It was a bad deal that was made in terms of minimum standards, all the way through. After all, they have de facto banned these private offers, they forgot the day care, but they made more government management, all in all a really bad deal. It then translates into bad legislation, which gives more bureaucracy, and that is what we are dealing with today. This proposal is clearly an expression of more state governance, more state, less human beings, and in New Citizens we want the diametrically opposite path: we want less state for more human beings. We do not need to see an inventory or more bureaucracy in the day institutions. I have to be completely honest and say: now there are several of the rapporteurs who have spoken from the platform about this, that we also have to manage from within Christiansborg, how many educated educators there are, for example. Is. My personal experience: I have had completely newly-educated young educators who, to be honest, have not been very good at their work, and then I have had some very experienced educators who themselves have many children who have worked with the subject themselves and who have been significantly better. So no, this is the wrong way to go. This is all about the politicians in here at Christiansborg being able to see down to the smallest detail how and how, and we want the completely diametrically opposite path. In New Citizens we believe that the money should choose the individual child and that parents should choose the institution they think is best. If it's a good offer, it's chosen, and if it's a bad offer, it's off, and then it kind of gives itself. So, of course, we're voting no to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. No, I just got one. A brief comment was made by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132306	Thank you. This was really just a question for the rapporteur, since the draft law only compensates the municipalities and not the private and self-serving institutions. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether, like us, the rapporteur sees this as another example of the very ideological policy that the Socialists, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have chosen to pursue in this area, where they want to kid and close all the offers that have organised themselves in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132331	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132335	I can give a very brief answer to that by the rapporteur of the Left: yes, that is exactly what the rapporteur of the Left says, so that once again we see this ideological struggle against private initiative and, moreover, against free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132349	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one on the platform is the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416132404	Thank you. You are tempted to say that it is now a long time since you have heard blue camp agree on anything, but there was just a break between the new bourgeois and the left, but it was also about what they think of us. I really want to start by congratulating Whereverengræden.dk, because the bill we are now discussing is being discussed because the movement that rose in relation to the conditions in the country's day institutions has fought a brave battle to get some improvements through. Now a great deal has been said about this data, which is what we are dealing with today, which is why I would just like to say that I think we should make a cut compared to the data that is about providing the data that allows the population to control the conditions under which they live, in terms of the things that we politicians have decided, for example. About their children's relationship. Somewhere I was about to say nothing more or less. It is incredibly clear, if you follow the debate on norms in the day institutions, that a large parent group feels deceived because they cannot see through data. Then you can discuss whether they are When it is the experience that you as parents have in Denmark, we as politicians have an obligation to ensure that the figures are made in a way that is transparent for the individual, for the parents who have their children in the day care institution, to be able to compare the conditions that are in this institution with the conditions elsewhere in the country. That is what has been demanded, and that is what we are doing with this legislation. So I would say that there has been a lot of political disagreement on minimum standards, and that is almost the next congratulations I would like to say. In the past, the Conservative People's Party asked whether the Social Democratic Party was in favour of minimum standards, because the Conservative People's Party actually believed that social democracy had gone to elections on social norms. That is right, and therefore just a congratulations to the Radical Left and to the Enhedslisten and to the SF, which has also fought a brave battle to get minimum standards through. What I can then say to the Conservative People's Party is that we have also had our social standards, and that is what the discussion was about, and not whether more money should be set aside, because we have, as a matter of fact, always agreed with each other, so that as soon as a new government came along, we should start negotiations to get more money off for the day-care institutions in Denmark, because there has simply been a need for more hands. What we have disagreed about is what method should be used. Should minimum standards be made? What was our great horror in the Social Democratic Party was, of course, that we would actually slaughter the social standards, which have meant a great deal, especially in the exposed regions of Denmark, and we have found a compromise on where we do both at the same time, and that reflects the fact that we have set an incredibly large amount of money, which is why we can blow and have flour in our mouths at the same time. But with the minimum standards you have to say a huge congratulations to the parents, a huge congratulations to the SF and Radicals and Enhedslisten for having fought a battle to get it through. On the other hand, the data we are discussing here today is absolutely essential for parents to actually feel that they can participate in the political conversation. That is why it has been asked for, and that is why we are following this lead and saying that it is quite reasonable that if parents say that they have a feeling that a smoke screen is being thrown out, because you cannot compare from one municipality to another, then it should. Then, about the data we then collect, I would say that what we are talking about here is data that is already being collected which is then organised in a different way. This is also clear in the comments on the legislation. So what we are proposing here is to increase the quality of the data that exists so that you can compare them across. Is there going to be some man-hours on it? Yeah, of course, it gives itself too. That is to say, it is a balance of where you want to use resources as a society, and money has been set aside for this so that you can collect that data. Moreover, a great deal of money is being spent on administration in relation to the law on minimum standards. However, it is just to say that it is explicit that it is necessary to take account of the fact that the teaching staff in the day institutions must use their work for what they are employed to do, namely to work with the children, and that is why we have arranged it in a way that is primarily based on data we already know, but organises it in a way that ensures that quality is in a way that can be compared across the board. The majority of the data available can be drawn into existing systems, and that is why you can do it. In fact, there are quite a lot of data, but those data are just split up in a series of municipalities, which then settle it in different ways, and that is to say, it is a matter of accessing the data and then getting them organised in a way so that you can actually compare across. Once the minimum standards have been fully introduced, the area will be added 1.8 billion annually. kr., i.e. a year. It is a gigantic welfare promise, and of course it will mean a great deal to the children who come in future generations, that there are more adults around them, and that is why I am immensely pleased with the overall agreement we have made. We are also working to strengthen supervision in the area of day-to-day provision, and we are also making sure that we look at the level of education, which I also think is a very important part of the agreement we have made around this area. So I think that we are getting a lot of good things through with this, and that means that the legislative proposal we are dealing with here today is one of the steps. One of the things we need to do in implementing this agreement is to provide better data, because I think it is absolutely essential for a democracy that we make sure that citizens also have a sense of being able to understand what is going on in an area, and it has to be said that parents have been very vocal in saying that data in this area is simply too bad, and I have not had a feeling that you could believe the figures that came because they have not been comparable, and that is simply not good, but we are correcting this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133108	Thank you, Minister. This gave rise to a series of brief comments. First, it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133114	Thank you. In other words, the whole basis for openness and transparency we share completely. The whole discussion about the parents' right to be able to relate to data, also on a comparable basis, we agree with, and that is also why we created the Dayoffer Portal.dk in the broad agreement we made back in 2018. Is there any data that can be improved? Yes, there is. Is there any data that can be developed? Yes, there is. But this is not the same as giving the authority to obtain basic data on everything that is being done in this bill. I also have to say that now that you are pulling out where you are growing.dk, it is not just a question of the quality of data; it is also a question of data compilation, and there is no intention to change that here. This is the whole discussion about whether the leader should count. Does the Minister think the leader should count? Otherwise, we are just as far in relation to the discussion about whether or not there is time out there. This bill doesn't make that clear. On the other hand, it is clear that it is true that there should be no more bureaucracy, but that is not a prerequisite in the legislative proposal. It also states that this should be done taking into account the teaching staff, but the bill also says elsewhere that they should be included in the helmet anyway, if the need to collect data on the offers changes at a later stage as part of, for example, individual surveys or political initiatives. That is why the question is: why is it that we do not make a limited legislative proposal, which is basically about improving relevant data, but is making a legislative proposal which basically allows us to obtain data on this and that, and thus red tape the children's area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133249	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133253	I simply do not agree with the description. I believe that what we are doing here is to increase the quality of data in a way that makes it transparent whether there is the same level of standards in the day-care institution in one municipality as there is in the day-care institution in the other municipality. That's what this bill is all about. That is why I would like to question when the Left rapporteur says that we share the desire for openness and transparency, because we have not done this here, because we ourselves had the power of government. So it may well be that you share it, but you didn't do anything because you had the power of government, and if the Left ultimately chooses to vote against this bill, then you haven't chosen to do anything in this rebirth either. So I think that somehow sounds a little hollow. In relation to leadership, age of standardisation and when you count, all the parts are included in the agreement, but are not really included in this legislation, because that legislation is only ready when we arrive in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133345	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133349	Well, the minister says she doesn't share the description I read from the legal text. I read from the legislative text for which the Minister is fighting, and then the Minister says that she does not share the description of it. That's the problem with this bill. After all, this bill is not just about improving quality or making reports more specific; this bill is about red tape in our children's area, and it is really sad. What we did when we sat in government and we would very much like to contribute to this development, because it is necessary to create the Dayoffer Portal.dk, where more data needs to be included in the future as well as in the future. That is just not what this bill is about, and that is why I would just like to ask the Minister: why does one not choose broadly anchored in the Folketing to launch negotiations about how to get better data, relevant data and not the model chosen here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133436	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133439	Yes, it is quite true that the rapporteur of the Left read something out of what was in the draft law, but she then calls it a red tape of the children's area, and I simply do not share that description. I simply do not think this description is adequate for what is contained in this draft law. I believe that what is at stake here is that we are moving from a situation to a situation which must, of course, annoy the Left a little, because you have had the power of government for very many years when data in the field of children are sailing and where the parents have described it as a feeling that a smoke screen is being put over something, and I understand that they are left with, and that is what we are trying to correct here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133517	The next question is Mrs. Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133521	Following on from the questions that come from the Left, I would just like to ask the Minister, in relation to the work he is doing with the announcement, to answer: how do we ensure there is no agreement there that goes beyond what we need? And when I ask, it is, of course, because I have the impression that we are very much in agreement on what the minimum amount of data we need is, but one also gets a little worried when there are other rapporteurs who can imagine anything in the future. In other words, because one thing is that we know it right now, but another is that we should not want it to be abused, on the day the minister was no longer allowed to be a minister himself. So what are the considerations of the Minister in relation to the demarcation proposed by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133604	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133606	I'm always gonna say, "And it's got one of those things." was one of my worries during corona that I don't like when, for example. is not the time for hearings. And right at the beginning of Corona, we had a bit of a problem with it. Then we established the political follow-up group and saw the sectoral partnership we have in the field of education in order to achieve it anyway. I believe, of course, that the best way to prevent exactly what Mrs Lotte Rod says from happening is that when we make an announcement, it will actually be sent to a hearing. In other words, this is the case with the consultation answers which are in connection with this legislation, of course there is, but there are the attention points that are being pointed out. We must then take a proper position on this and, of course, we must also do so when drawing up a notice, in which I think we should then listen to the concerns raised by those who have to work in concrete terms and, incidentally, those who know about data processing in this case, the Data Protection Agency. So I think that the best way to prevent this kind of slippage from happening is to take it seriously when it happens. It may well be that you do not go that way, someone says you have to go, but you have to have it on your table and ask: how do you really deal with the concerns raised by one and the other and the third in the consultation stages? I think that is simply the greatest strength of our democracy, that is to say that we have invited the outside world so closely around our legislative process, and the same applies to announcements where they are going to be consulted before they become reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133726	A follow-up question? No. The next brief remark is from Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133733	Thank you. Can the Minister guarantee that this bill will not lead to more bureaucracy at the expense of the children? Following the adoption of this bill, will there be children who receive less attention from adults in the country's institutions because they have to make reports and reports?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133754	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133757	Now the reality is that in the day-to-day supply sector it is so poorly recorded that it is a totally free round, whether I answered yes or no. Because with the poor registration that is in the area and the poor data that is in the area, none of us will have the shadow of a chance to prove whether I was right or not. And that is actually one of the problems. The intention of this bill is to base itself on existing data, which is why it would be most correct to say that we have no expectation that this will cost time from the children. But none of us will subsequently be able to document which of us is right because there is so little data in this area. So that's a total free round to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133835	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133839	This is not something that makes me want to vote in favour of this proposal. I think it will be very difficult for me to argue in my parliamentary group that we should suddenly vote in favour of a proposal in which the Minister says that she has no idea whether this will be a pile of bureaucracy, which will pay attention to the core task of caring for children. Well, then, you have to make legislation in a better way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416133913	Actually, that's not what I said. There's a very big difference between saying "we don't know" and "we can't document." These are two completely different things. I know what we are starting from here. In fact, we have quite precise knowledge of this, because we are based on existing data material. So we know a lot, but we can't document it. So there is a difference. And that means that the thing about giving guarantees for something where there is no proof one way or the other is, in fact, just what I am beating myself on. But what is the starting point, and we have actually tried to be thorough about this, is to say that we have no wish that more effort should be devoted to teaching staff on something that does not have to do with children, including registration. So that's what we put this on. And that means that we have based ourselves on existing data material, which means that it is a matter of organising that data material in a way that allows it to be used to compare levels of standards, which has been highly sought after. So it can be said that we know a great deal, we know a great deal about how we organise it here, but to prove that a guarantee is then just something that is given or whether it is actually something that is really behind the nature that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is asking for, I simply do not think one can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134028	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134033	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister what it is like not to compensate the private and self-serving institutions in the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134048	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134052	It is because it is the municipalities that have been working on sending in data, and we are based on data already recorded, and therefore there should not be an additional task for private institutions. And where there are additional tasks for private institutions, it is the case that the municipalities are obliged to reflect it over. In other words, the extra costs that should be borne by private institutions are similar to those that exist when you need something extra in a public institution, and then you have to reflect it into what you give to the private. Therefore, private institutions are compensated for any additional tasks that are involved, but this requires that the municipality has also entrusted the public additional tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134132	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134136	Well, that's not how I read it. That is why I am just a little puzzled about it, because it will still be something that private and self-serving institutions will spend some time on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134153	Yes, and it may well be that we should take it in writing, because we have had it in a few rounds: if you mix private pass and pool schemes and self-serving institutions, different rules simply apply. For the self-serving institutions, it is reflected. In other words, if the economy increases for the municipal day care institutions, then it does so for the private sector too. So when you get extra money for the municipal day care institution, you get it also at the self-serving institutions. For the private pass, which is another group, it will be the case that there is no extra task associated with what lies in this bill. They do not get a share in the money, but then there is no extra task for the private pass. So the rules are different, depending on whether we are talking about self-serving institutions, where you always reflect on the economy of the municipal institutions, or not, so it depends on which part of the private ones we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134245	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for short remarks, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134322	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr. Orla Sea of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134331	Thank you. One of the most fascinating tools in my childhood household was a three-in-one. Imagine having a tool that could handle three of everyday functions together in one. At least with this bill, L 193, the performance has been surpassed by a great many meters. L 193 contains eight elements of one law. The elements of the Act are a number of changes to financial legislation aimed at increasing consumer and investor protection. This is to ensure strengthened and targeted supervision in the financial field. Then it is to ensure coordinated action in favour of policy holders when a non-life insurance company has its authorisation to conduct an accident insurance business. Secondly, the Minister for Industry is authorised to lay down detailed rules for insurance companies to which insurance companies must comply when carrying out investigations, so-called investigations, including personal observation of victims. The rules shall support proper and fair treatment of the injured party and ensure that insurance undertakings use only investigative methods that are reasonable in relation to the scope of the case and that affect the customer as little as possible. Unfortunately, we have had some boring examples in the press that it is necessary to have some rules about this. The next area in eight in one is that the money laundering area is guaranteed up-to-date supervision, as virtual currency service providers are added to the scope of the Laundering Act. I have not been able to understand that bitcoins have not been part of the surveillance that has taken place in the economy of our society, and it is good that we are getting it in here. Then the ban on receiving cash is tightened, where the limit is reduced from DKK 50,000. $20,000. to address the high risk of money laundering associated with cash payments. The prohibition applies to traders who are not subject to the obligations, such as customer knowledge, etc., arising from the Laundering Act. Then the capacity of the Danish Green Investment Fund will be increased by 6 billion. kr., and Denmark's Green Investment Fund's opportunities to provide funding for green projects are expanded. Finally, as a result of the agreement on compensation to mink growers and secondary industries affected by the covid-19, financial stability will be able to create an entity which will enable former mink growers, who, despite the compensation, face a personal bankruptcy, to receive unpaid debt advice. As I have said, I have counted eight elements in this draft law... all of them, I think, are sensible initiatives, each of which in their context makes a great deal of sense. The Social Democratic Party supports L 193 and is, of course, prepared to take an active part in the committee work following today's first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134719	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. This did not give rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, standing by. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416134736	Thank you for the floor. If every single element of this bill were a human being, this bill would violate the convention ban, and it would actually be a crowd of very many different people in different colors, sizes and genders. For I strongly disagree with the Socialist rapporteur: there are no eight elements; there are 29 elements in this draft law 29 very different elements. In other words, we are witnessing a huge pile of weddings. Time simply does not allow me to go through them all. However, the Socialist rapporteur has mentioned the eight of them. I might repeat a few of them. One of the elements is the following: Should an industrial accident insurance company go bankrupt, it has so far been the case that it should be dealt with in the Labour Market Insurance. With the proposal here, the handling of such possible cases will be moved, if such cases arise, we hope that no one will come over to the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance companies, and it would make very good sense to do so in the same way as with other insurance companies. It will then also provide for the Minister to issue rules in relation to situations where insurance companies investigate or investigate their customers if there is a suspicion that insurance customers have received compensation unduly. And as Mr. Orla Hav said, there have been some media stories that were not very reassuring to witness, so it is quite reasonable that they should be corrected. Of course, it must be possible to be sure that compensations are paid in accordance with the rules, but if you are to control your customers, it must of course be done in a proper and fair way. But at the same time, it is important that all insurance customers are not going to pay extra in premium because there are a few who cheat on the weight. The draft law also has an element with regard to virtual currency service providers, which means that they are also to a greater extent covered by the law on money laundering. When the international organisation FATF recommends that virtual currency service providers are regulated to prevent money laundering or terrorist financing and that they operate under a licence or at least are registered and subject to effective systems for monitoring and ensuring compliance with all relevant measures, it makes sense to follow that recommendation. The bill also contains a tightening of the cash ban. Today you have to make payments with cash up to 50,000 kroner, and the government then proposes to lower that to 20,000 kroner. I have to say that I can follow these general considerations that it is easier to trace electronic money, because a trail is left behind, and it may of course have some positive elements in it, but I would really like to announce that I am going to work on it during the committee procedure. Is there really a risk assessment behind this? Are there concrete examples of the current border being problematic? Because some people are still missing in this country, any one using cash for payment, and that is why, hopefully, the government will have to wait and if not, then it will be a problem to explain why you are not allowed to buy paintings, furniture, a used car or similar items in cash. But I'll ask about that. The last and 29th elements of the bill are certainly one in which I myself have a fairly large share. It is about the establishment of a Financial Stability Unit to help provide advice to mink growers who, after measured compensation, may find themselves in a situation where they are insolvent, in other words where they have more debt than has been paid in compensation. And that was something that we on the Left negotiated into the agreement on compensation for mink. Because there is no doubt that when the government shut down a whole profession from one day to the next, and without a legal basis, where there are families watching decades of effort, we must ensure that they are treated properly and decently. Hopefully, few mink growers have the prospect that the compensation they receive will not match the debt that is on the holding, and therefore it is important that they have an opportunity to go to Financial Stability and get advice or at least get help in obtaining advice, among other things. to deal with their creditors to see if a solution can be found to the situation without necessarily having to end up in a personal bankruptcy. So, of course, I hope that there are few people to use it and that those who need it can use that help to move on properly. But overall, as I said, there are approx. 29 changes, and they are generally taken down positively in the consultation answers, which is why we see of course that is not only why, but it is a contributory reason for positive action on the part of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135250	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135258	I have to say, I'm very much in agreement with that. I actually think it's a problem that we're dealing with this. To be honest, I doubt how many people inside this hall have read it all. I can just say on behalf of our party that we had a hard time reaching all around. It sounds like the rapporteur has achieved it, but I could imagine that the rapporteur, with everything else on the agenda, also had difficulty with it. So my first question is, aren't we supposed to do something about this? In fact, I do not think it is right that we should not be able to get to the material properly and have proper time to prepare ourselves. It's just one thing. But what is the rapporteur thinking? I know the rapporteur said this with a smile on his face, but it is also serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135347	Thank you to the questioner. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135351	I think that is an extremely relevant and sensible question. Now I also have a past as a tax rapporteur, which is why I think I have to say that changing governments have been very good at making piles of weddings. This has not normally been so bad in the business sector, but I agree that we are dealing here with a legislative proposal that contains a great many different elements and that is not because they are all closely related and I think that we should be careful about that in general. I believe that the bill is a total of 618 pages, so it is in the east and west. It is clear that with legislative proposals of that size there is a risk that some people are missing elements. I have to say, when I see the answers to the hearings, that in the past I have seen somewhat more comprehensive consultation responses to significantly smaller legislative proposals. So I share the concern and I can almost sense that there is a clear call from the questioner to the government that this should be very cautious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135455	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135459	I very much agree with that, and I believe that by looking at the title of the proposal, many cannot see through at all that it contains all these different parts. Then I have another question. This is in relation to the part about the mink agreement that has also been included in the proposal, although we are several parties that are not included in that agreement. However, in relation to the issue of the protection of creditors and debt relief, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur could put a little word on how the state is in this situation. Is it the case that the state has to pay one to one to the banks that the minkkeepers could have for the benefit, or what is it you've ended up with here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135536	What is in the draft law and what we have agreed is that if a mink is insolvent after payment of compensation, that is, he may owe 5 million. kr. and receive payment of 4 million. kr. In compensation, there are creditors who say that it will not work. However, the draft law and what is in the agreement are all about the fact that, as a mink, you can get advice in Financial Stability. I think 30 million dollars have been set. kr. off. It is the creditors who face the risk. It will not be the case that the state collects an unpaid creditor's bill. It must be a question between the creditor and the individual breeder, and we hope then that with this unit there might be a friendly solution so that we do not end up in a personal bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135618	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416135639	Now the rapporteur of the Left mentioned that, in his view, there were 618 pages in the draft law. My statement then shows that, if you take the answers to the hearings, there are 730 pages in relation to the legislative proposal that we are dealing with now, and I, like a few of the previous speakers, especially the rapporteur of the Left, am very concerned about implementing this type of wedding here in Parliament, because there are a lot of different things being mixed up. The Social Democrats' rapporteur said that there were eight elements and then the Left came up and said that there were 29 elements, and I would almost say that we others might find some more if we were a little creative, but that does not change the fact that it is not good for legal security and the legislative work, that we are mixing a great many different things together and then making it one large and very complex and side-by-side very comprehensive legislative proposal. In fact, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, it is almost possible to fear that some people will end up making fewer and less comments in the hearings to the legislative proposals that have been put forward simply because they think that it is almost impossible. You don't have to answer everything, but you have to read things through to get an overview. After all, the Minister is using such phonograph-like arguments in his speech that we must increase consumer and investor protection and that it is an improvement in Danish financial legislation and that it is something that increases targeted supervision, and when one says such a sort of floral thing, it is clear that there are not many political parties who think that this is something that they will oppose. I mean, I have never heard a business rapporteur speak for less investor protection and a lesser degree of consumer safety, and I actually think that argument could be used in everything between heaven and earth. However, I would just like to choose to attach myself to four of the things that are put forward in this draft law, and one is, of course, that we will ensure coordinated action in favour of policy holders when a non-life insurance company withdraws its authorisation for the sale of policies. It is then proposed that a minister in the insurance sector should be given the authority to lay down detailed rules which the insurance companies must comply with in relation to all the observations and case investigations which they are now carrying out in relation to customers who claim a right to compensation. In the Danish People's Party we are actually very aware that you can just as well say it as it is: there are people who cheat, there are people who try to deceive, there are people who are creative, there are people who are trying to get an increased insurance sum to which they are not entitled. But, of course, we also want to say that there are insurance companies, which are also bandits who are putting out smokescreens, which compromise the legal position of the citizens in relation to carrying out illegal surveillance, and that there are also some of those who like to put in some companies, and ask if it was not a good idea with that particular and the specialist that the insurance company might think is very good at providing the right type of formulation in relation to a medical certificate, so that they know that it was better and in their favour when it comes to assessing it. In the same vein, it says that it is up to the Minister to have this authority in terms of what are reasonable methods of investigation. And I would like to ask: what is reasonable? I would like the Minister for Industry to answer that and I would also like to know in what context it is that something can be reasonable. In the Danish People's Party's optics it is therefore rubber band in meter size that one goes into. Because I am not sure that a Social Democrat feels the same tenderness of reasonableness as a SF or one from the Danish People's Party for that matter, and you may have a slightly different approach to what you think a minister should put into some reasonable consideration and some reasonable standards towards the Danish insurance companies. So, of course, I would like us to have a little more definition of that, and that is at least one of the reasons why we are quite certain we cannot vote in favour of this bill. Then there is that in the field of money laundering, which is also one of the laws dealt with by this bill, and there it is, after all, that you go in and include virtual currencies, i.e. crypto currencies and bitcoins etc., and that is one of the things that we welcome. But, on the other hand, we cannot really understand that we are now going to make a registration of the purchase of products and goods, etc. 20,000 kroner. in the case of private purchases, where Danish kroner applies. So we cannot really agree with that either. I would like to say at the end of the day that the green investment fund and the extension to the 6 billion. kr. through increased guarantee and lending, etc. is one of the things that we can support. But overall, we may not be able to support the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140158	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140203	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a place where I have been very pleased with the cooperation with the Danish People's Party, and it has actually been with a rapporteur other than the rapporteur himself, but it has been in the field of health and has, of course, been about the victims, but it is precisely because of the insurance companies that there is a overlap. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur say a little about it himself in relation to the part about espionage and how conflicts of interest can arise in relation to the fact that insurance companies have an interest in what the outcome will be, whether the Danish People's Party will help to ensure that we actually completely loop and prohibit insurance companies from going in and doing a espionage. What does the Danish People's Party think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140300	We can reject that. We believe that those who have sold policies are also allowed to defend themselves, and we cannot simply have a legal society in which those who sell policies are not allowed to obtain information as well. Now Mrs. Victoria Velasquez calls it espionage. Well, we can also call it observations, and we can also call it internal investigations. There are many ways to grade it, and I fully agree that there is something in relation to the legal basis and that is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech and we should not compromise with them. But we also need to ensure that there is a model that both takes care of the fact that there are people who challenge our policy systems and who would like to try that some money is due to them that is not theirs, i.e. by insurance fraud, and unfortunately there are very many examples of this. However, there are also times when it is insurance companies which, for example, try to shift clients to certain specialists because they then know that they are getting better statements that are more in line with the insurance companies' approach to it. So it has to go on both legs and we cannot just say that one of the parties should not be allowed to defend itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140409	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140410	Fortunately, we have moved a little in the right direction in relation to a reference to medical reports, and I look forward to the evaluation that is to be made to see if we have now hit the balance. I am still critical of whether the balance has been struck, but it is clearly a step in the right direction. However, does the rapporteur not think that legal principles are actually a little challenged, given that one party has very clear interests? And in very many respects, I believe in all, the insurance company will clearly be the big one in the conflict of interest that will be with the injured party. Does the rapporteur think that the balance is being struck here properly? Or is there something else you have to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140447	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140448	Compared to what I have read in what I have read from the 730 pages of this proposal, which has little to do with the second part, compared with what the rapporteur has negotiated with Mrs Liselott Blixt and so on. If it is a little in a different direction, we consider it to be unfavorable because we give too much ministerial authority to describe what are actually reasonable methods of investigation. I therefore think that we should have a little more hands on it and, if we want to make the methods of investigation more far-reaching and more sharp, I also believe that the parties who voted for it must of course be involved. It shouldn't just lie with some random blackmailer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140529	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140533	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. What brings me forward is the rapporteur's a little bit of irony about what competence the minister has transferred, and then about who it is, who is the weak party exactly compared to the insurance companies. Mrs Victoria Velasquez has just asked about this, and we must face up to the fact that it is the insured person who is the weak party, and he may be in this situation once in her life. The insurance companies are in that day after day. The question is whether it is fair for them to be allowed to unfold all sorts of things I had almost said espionage gripes, and is it okay to assess a person's behavior on what is going on on Facebook, of which we have seen examples, in order to assess whether he meets the criteria for obtaining the compensation to which he has fallen. Could the rapporteur not give a hint as to whether that would be okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140640	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140641	Now I do not know how much we have to deal with what is not within the scope of the legislative proposal, but if you post something on Facebook and you have an open profile, it is not contrary to any GDPR models, and if an insurance company, for example. I can see that someone who applies for whip substitutes runs around and is setting up a new carpedam system in his garden, riding wheelbarrows, etc., and the person himself puts up a picture of it I have no precedent on it; that is a thought example I can't see why it shouldn't be used, i.e. if the injured person claims that, for example, you can't so much. That is quite fair when you use something that lies on open standards and is on an open facebook page. This is just one thought example, but in general I would say that what lies in this draft law is, of course, the degree of authority to be given to the minister in office at any time, and what reasonable considerations you want to put in, to say what you have to say in a situation of inquiry and what you cannot do. And there's just what I'm saying is that I'm certainly not in port and on safe ground compared to what's in this bill. There, I believe, the ministerial authority is too large.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140747	Here you go for a follow-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140749	Thank you. Now, I am in the lucky position that I have great confidence in the current minister. There should be no doubt about that, and I am sure that the present minister would be able to make a distinction between what many people have said, namely that they have taken part in a confirmation for a grandson and that a picture has been put up from it has been interpreted as saying that there is no room for them to go to parties and there is therefore no right to pay the compensation for which they have insured. Is this a reasonable way to use an assessment of a person's qualifications and ability to function when you know that he or she has to be in bed for three days afterwards? Is this the scenario that the Danish People's Party sees for itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140839-2	In a sense, I think it is rather funny that I should be suspicious of something, when I raise some concerns that we put something in a minister and remove it from the competence of the elected representatives. I don't think I should go in there and make myself a tastejudge of confirmation photos in connection with the legal treatment of L 193. I am referring to a definition which is ambiguous. It is not described in more detail. It says that this is a reasonable consideration, and my years in the Folketing are just telling me that we should be careful about what is called reasonable considerations. There we have to maintain that it has to go on two legs. We must ensure, as I said in the reply I gave to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, that we do not, of course, compromise on the legal certainty standards that all private individuals enjoy and where, for example, people are not to be monitored illegally and so on. Of course we should not change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140935	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416140956	Thank you for the floor. I have not counted the elements of this bill, but I can say, like many others, that there are many. L 193 is about implementing a number of changes in financial legislation aimed at increasing consumer and investor protection, as well as ensuring strengthened and targeted financial supervision. It is a broad legislative proposal with many aspects, and in this respect SF also has a number of questions to which we want answers in the further discussion. Let me mention a few strikes. The bill here introduces a special obligation of professional secrecy for the National Bank's employees, which, according to the comments to the bill, means that access to documents will be dealt with in the light of Article 35 of the Public Procurement Act. But to what extent will this in practice lead to a change in the possibility of access to the National Bank's documents? The bill here also tells us something about the green investment fund. Here some assessment criteria are specified for the Danish Green Investment Fund and for the financial activities. We would like to ask the Minister if he could add to the criteria that the fund cannot support investments relating to fossil fuels. Here I am referring to a wording contained in our agreement text for the green investment fund in the 2020 financial law agreement. We have a number of questions, also because the draft law here is broad, which we would like to forward in the further committee before we can say whether we support the proposal, but we are working positively on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416141135	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416141154	Thank you. As several others have said, this may not be all good from the sea, but it's pretty much all right from the Department of Business that's gathered in a bill here. I'll save you from reviewing the bill item by item. I think that is quite well done by previous speakers, but I would like to strike down a few places. Firstly, we are really, really pleased that serious work is being done with regard to insurance companies and the personal observations, but we will, of course, continue to follow that it actually has the effect that it should have. We also think it is very sensible that when things develop with virtual currencies, the law develops with it and they therefore come into the scope of the money laundering law. It also makes really, really good sense that we are helping mink farmers who may be in danger of going into personal bankruptcy after we have closed their jobs, despite their being compensated. So, of course, we support that too. Then we are very happy with Denmark's Green Future Fund, which is increased by 6 billion. kr. We have very, very great ambitions and great confidence in this, so that we can create growth and development. I think that's what I was gonna do here. Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416141339	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416141354	There are a lot of things in this huge bill that Enhedslisten can support. For example: We consider the initial part to be quite appropriate to bring together in the Guarantee Fund when a non-life insurance company goes bankrupt. We expect that, like the government, will benefit policy holders when the accident is out. And it also makes good sense in this respect to increase the Guarantee Fund's holdings. Furthermore, we consider it necessary to take action against the cross-border observation of victims by insurance companies, and this is probably not surprising to the Minister, as we have been discussing legal certainty and the rights of victims many times since a new assembly of parliaments began. And, of course, I am pleased to see that the Minister of Industry's decree will lay down rules for more objective and balanced investigation methods when it comes to the efforts to prevent insurance fraud. From Enhedslisten's side, we actually felt it would be better to shut down the insurance companies, which have a very clear economic interest in this, to be able to do espionage. And not least what we also see they are doing on social media against the insured. And it is quite obvious to me that there is a conflict of interest that gives insurance employees an incentive to go disproportionately intrusive and to commit judgment errors in the investigation along the way. And the many subjugations of the Appeals Board should also be a firm testimony to this. Let's keep jumping. We also welcome the Crowdfunding Regulation because we believe that there is a need for more effective supervision in this area. And it is also welcome to regulate the so-called virtual currency market, which is today a wilderness of dimensions that attracts criminals and platters. And it is absolutely necessary for virtual currency to be regulated according to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. This is an area that needs to be monitored and kept on a leash. Here, too, we agree with the Consumer Council. Think of the need to allocate more resources to supervision so that we can centralise the enforcement of the rules in the field of cryptocurrency. As far as the cash ban is concerned, it makes sense to reduce the size limit from DKK 50,000. for DKK 20,000, but I can feel that there is still such a concern in the stomach in relation to older people who make use of cash payments and in relation to people who have less opportunity to pay digitally, such as: older citizens, they will be disproportionately affected by this sharpening. In any case, I think that is worth looking into and following up. And then I also think that as long as the banks have negative interest rates where it costs money to have money standing, more will probably also choose to stuff the money into the mattress and pay larger amounts of cash instead of cards. So perhaps it could be an idea to examine the scope more closely so that we do not end up reducing honest people's need for payment solutions. We also support that part about a basic payment account, insofar as it does not become more expensive to take advantage of the right. We also support the implementation of the Crossboarder Directive, and we support the National Bank's powers to obtain business information that supports the National Bank's vital tasks. Finally, as part of the implementation of the Danish Green Future Foundation, we also support the strengthening of the Danish Green Growth Fund by 6 billion. kr. and allows the fund to make more flexible investments, as well as the possibility to take part in the payment. However, the draft law states that, in order to ensure a clear and uniform legal position, the same protection of sensitive information must also be introduced into the Danish Green Investment Fund Act, which currently applies in the Growth Fund Act. And right here we really think what it says is worrying. For some of the things that must ensure that a green investment fund actually makes green investments and contributes to green conversion are precisely that the public can hold hands with its activities. Transparency, and therefore not increased secrecy, is one of the keys to the green transition, which is why we in the Enhedslist want it to be included in the legislative notes that the Green Future Fund and the Growth Fund are subject to the Environmental Information Act. And then I think I have to take advantage of the right in the Folketing, which is to continue my rapporteur's speech after the first round of rapporteur's speeches. Because there are just so many things we need to do, so I can't do it in the time we have for the first one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416141920	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416141934	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. It is, of course, quite fine that at times various legislative changes are brought together in one and the same proposal. However, like many other rapporteurs here in the Chair, I must say that although the elements of this draft law can be regarded as changes in financial legislation, it is not much else that brings together these proposals. So for the record, I'm gonna take them out of their own way, not all 29, but I'm just gonna pool them right in some main elements; what I think is the biggest. The first element concerns the ability of insurance companies to follow up their customers' information. This follow-up must not, of course, have any marks, which is why new rules are being proposed. That's good. The second proposal is that so-called virtual currency • cryptocurrency, Facebooks libra and bitcoins • which, of course, must follow the same rules as anything else during money laundering. Check by it too. The third is to reduce the possibility of cash payments. Today, for the risk of money laundering, we have set the limit at DKK 50,000. for those professions that are not covered by these customer knowledge obligations that we know from the Laundering Act. And in the bill it is then proposed to put it down to 20,000 kroner. Quite frankly, I do not understand why. And not least why you landed on this amount. In this context, I am thinking more of the benefit of looking at abolishing the thousand kroner note, in fact, like the European Central Bank, it has stopped all production of their largest euro banknote, EUR 500, in order, among other things, to combat crime and terrorism. I think it is widely known in the financial sector that the big bills are very much used for shady purposes, so a phasing out of the thousand kroner note might be what helped make life a little harder for the criminals, and we can clear out a little. The fourth proposal is about strengthening the Danish Green Future Fund, both with capacity and with increased opportunities to provide funding for green investments. I find that very difficult to oppose. The fifth and final proposal in my pool is that the parties to the agreement on top of the unfortunate and tragic mink scandal expect bankruptcy. Conservatives are not included in that agreement, and I therefore believe, in principle, that it is a mess to mix it with everything else. Having said that, it is clear that we support the fact that former mink growers will, of course, receive unpaid debt advice in the event of bankruptcy. It's all missing. Overall, Conservatives for this pool of financial proposals are, but as I said, we would like to be convinced first of all of the 20,000 DKK, and either here or later look at phasing out e.g. Thousands of kroner bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416142218	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen for New Citizens. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416142234	I shall start by saying that we will not vote in favour of the entire legislative proposal. There are, of course, elements in what we can support and which we can vote in favour of, but this is a single piece of legislation, so we will not be voting in favour of the legislative proposal unless we divide it into perhaps 29 points or at least some points. But we can do that later. I'd like to explain the biggest knots we see in the bill. Of course, one of the big knots is this: you want to lower it with cash from 50,000 kroner. $20,000. It simply does not work, and there is no evidence, I think, or evidence that it is necessary to do so. There are older people who like to have money at home and also use it to pay with. Cars are being traded, horses are being traded and other things are being traded that still have to be accommodated. Then there is an element that no one has addressed yet. We're in a situation where we're getting minus interest in the bank right now. Some banks have chosen to set the limit at DKK 200,000, and others have set it at DKK 250,000. There you simply get minus interest, which means that the bank punishes you for having your money standing in the bank. Here we say: if you want to take out some of that money so that you can use it to pay for anything, there may be a complication in it. But if people can't have money at home and use it to pay, what do they do? Then they have to run back and forth, and it's not as easy just to get cash in the bank as it was in the old days. There are many banks that do not have cash, and sometimes you also have to pay a fee to get cash. So there are some problems in this which make us think it is mistaken. We cannot in any way support reducing the amount. Then there's the whole green future fund thing. It's not something we're in or something that's grown in our garden. There are certainly also sensible elements in it, but these are the main reasons why we cannot support it. I delved a little into what I think is 2.22.3 on charges for these e-banks and payment institutions. I was simply shocked by how many different tax rates there actually are. It's gotta be something awfully complicated. I guess that also shows why this total is 730 pages. But there are so many different tax rates that you have to pay. It must be easier to make two or three groups, and then it is the ones they pay in to. But that is just such a small detail in relation to the fact that we need to be simplified and that we wonder why we have so much legislation when it is so difficult to manage it. This may be one of the clearest examples I've ever looked at. It may be a small amount of money for the institutions. There are some who have to pay 3,700 kroner, while others may have to pay 7,000 kroner. Can't you just pool it in some bigger pools so people can figure out what to pay? It has to be the impact from here. But basically, as it stands, we are not going to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416142531	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. The next one is the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416142549	Thank you for that, and thank you for the comments and the largely positive reception of the elements at least in the draft law. It is very important that financial regulation also follows the developments in our society so that it ensures proper protection for market participants and, of course, consumers as well. The aim of the draft law here is to implement, as has been mentioned, a number of measures which increase consumer and investor protection, among others. the insurance and investment areas. In addition, the draft law will strengthen the supervision of e.g.: the money laundering and investment area. Finally, the draft law provides the necessary legal basis for former mink growers to obtain free debt advice if they face a personal bankruptcy. The draft law proposes the introduction of an authorisation to lay down detailed rules to be followed by insurance companies when carrying out investigations. This is also what has been referred to as investigation and personal observation of the injured party in the course of their proceedings in the event of damage. In addition, it is proposed that the Guarantee Fund for non-life insurance undertakings be entrusted with the task of managing an occupational accident insurance fund when an insurance undertaking withdraws its authorisation or goes bankrupt. It is a task which today lies with the occupational insurance of the labour market in respect of occupational injury insurance, while other insurance is handled in the Guarantee Fund. The change will ensure coordinated action in favour of the insured by bringing together the management of the insurance stocks in one place. In the field of money laundering, it is important that efforts to prevent and combat money laundering and other financial crime follow developments, including in the digital field, and therefore a number of amendments to the Laundering Act are proposed to ensure effective supervision of providers of different services with virtual currency. In addition, it is proposed that the ban on receiving payment amounts of DKK 50,000. and above for traders not covered by the Laundering Act, lower to DKK 20,000. This is a tightening up that is being proposed to meet the high risk of money laundering and terrorist financing that may be associated with these cash payments. Then there is the Danish Green Investment Fund and, as part of its implementation, a number of amendments to the Act on the Danish Green Investment Fund are proposed. Denmark's Green Investment Fund will increase its capacity from 2 billion to 8 billion with the Danish Green Future Fund. kr. and has thus been given a central role in promoting green conversion. And in view of the considerable increase in the Fund's capacity, there is a need to adapt the Fund's supply of products and the legal basis for the fund so that it can meet this ambition more fully. Finally, it is proposed that a Financial Stability Unit should provide debt advice to former mink growers facing personal bankruptcy even after they have received compensation for the closure of their mink business. Debt advice must be available free of charge to mink growers. It is important that these former mink growers are helped to provide an overview of their financial situation, guidance regarding debt relief and assistance for negotiating with their creditors. Then I will try to address just some of the elements that have filled the most in the debate. One of them is the question of the cash limit... why $20,000? against the 50,000 kroner it has been on so far. It is, of course, an ongoing balance between wanting to prevent money laundering on the one hand and, on the other hand, also having a flexible use of cash for those who need it. This is a tightening up and, in terms of amounts, it is something that is determined by the limits of other EU and EEA countries. There are a number of other EU countries that have more restrictive rules in this area than Denmark has. I think that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. France has introduced a cash ban of EUR 1000 for trade between traders and private individuals living in France. I can also see that, for example. The Netherlands plans to set their borders further. So it follows a movement that we generally see around us. Then the SF has among other things. asked about this with the Danish Green Investment Fund. After all, in agreement with the parties behind the Danish Green Future Fund, the activities of the Danish Green Investment Fund must meet the criteria set out in what is called the "Funding/investment Policy" covered by the Danish Green Future Fund. This will help to stop funding fossil energy sources and fuels wherever there are possible alternatives. in our energy production. It is only in areas where commercial or scalable fully fossil-free solutions are not available that, in particular situations, the fund can finance projects related to fossil energy sources. be in the transport sector. So it was to get a little closer to that question, and we will also drill it into the written committee work afterwards. Then there was also the question of access to documents and the National Bank. To this I can say that in practice, the proposed provision here will not alter the possibilities of access to documents. The confidential information can also be exempted today under the Public Access Act, so it is not in this way anything that restricts it beyond the practice currently in force. A number of questions have been raised and we will come back to it in committee. After all, we are always available, and perhaps in this context in particular, to answer questions and what else might be in the committee work. It is a rich law with many facets, and it is always a balance of how many legal proceedings we need to have against whether or not some of them can be collected. I take note, of course, of the critical remarks that have been made, and we shall then have this in mind in future legislative proposals. But so far I just have to say that we are of course available to answer questions, not least in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143233	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143238	Thank you. What I really want to ask the Minister is in relation to the elements here. Whether there are 28 or 29 elements can always be discussed, but there are at least some elements that are a matter of conciliation. The Minister himself mentions the extension of the Danish Green Investment Fund, and then we have also mentioned the part of the mink agreement in several instances. There I would like to ask the Minister whether he will ensure that there will be a split of the legislative proposal so that the two elements, which are conciliation substances, will at least be picked out for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143318	It is clear that if there is a desire to divide it up, so that the elements that are I do not know whether it is necessarily conciliation, which is the right term, but at least political agreements; at least we can agree that a few of the issues have been dealt with; that is something we are able to provide technical assistance for can also happen. But the hope is, of course, that it can be dealt with together, but of course we will listen to the wishes that may be in the committee, and we will help with that if that is what is desired.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143350	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143352	Well the Minister can then already note that the Danish People's Party would certainly like to make that request. The second question is in relation to the cash rule, because it's kind of a funny situation. I'm aware of some of these cases that have been going on. A Danish used car dealer who makes a living selling cars abroad with and without Danish taxes, etc., has been convicted in the city court and has received a verdict for breaches of the law on money laundering in relation to the DKK 50,000, because the price in euro on a car that was converted in euro, between the time of the transaction and the settlement, where you came and picked up the car, was changed in relation to the exchange rate, and then the price came exactly with a few kroner over DKK 50,000, and then the dealer was fined, I think it was DKK 10,000. Does the Minister think that's fair? And when you go down to $20,000, you probably open a barn gate for all kinds of trades, which is at least between $20,000. and up to 50,000 kroner. Does the Minister himself consider that this would be a reasonable situation for Danish companies trading abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143456	I would say this in this way that I think it is very important that when we choose a limit, and we have done so, it must also apply. Then, of course, it is the question of how close one dares to the limit when dealing in currency, which can also develop in courses. I think it is a major question in this context whether there is a consensus that cash and money laundering have a common amount over them, and that is why lowering the limit of the amount would probably also make a significant contribution to the fight against money laundering, whether we are ready to do so. We think it would be a good idea to do so because we want to combat money laundering effectively, but I can also listen to the fact that this is one of the discussions we should have between the parties in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143543	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no more brief comments. Then I note that the Enhedslisten wants a second round, and I will just hear before I give the floor to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether there are other parties who want to speak for the second round. Not at all. Good. And I give the floor to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143614	Thank you. Transparency is one of the keys to the green transition and to the green transition, and that is why, despite what the Minister has just said, we would like to see it tightened up in the legislative notes that the Danish Green Investment Fund and the Growth Fund are subject to the Environmental Information Act, the Aarhus Convention and the United Nations guidelines on corporate human rights liability. This is simply because we have witnessed many times, unfortunately, that media and journalists are cut off from the opportunity to gain insight into Danish funds' investments and guarantees in enterprises that have questionable environmental profiles, and there may clearly be a need to protect sensitive business information, but it should not cover up environmental information, and that is why there has to be some balance there that we can live with. Then I would also like to merge something new now when we talk about the Danish Green Investment Fund. I believe that the fund is doing a great deal today, but that its potential is not being fully exploited and that Denmark must speed up the green transition and be more of a global hub than today to promote green technology, so we should expand the operation of the fund and, in concrete terms, we should allow the fund to look beyond Denmark's borders. The climate crisis is global, so in my opinion it is an artificial restriction on the DGIF in its purpose to be limited to Danish companies and national green conversion, and perhaps we should start to consider allowing the fund also to fund foreign companies in order to attract green solutions and competences to Denmark. Such an interpretation of the Fund's objectives also improves its interaction and financing with the Danish Green Future Foundation and the other institutions. It also gives Denmark greater opportunity to participate in green EU funds if the fund can be part of regional cooperation. Several have commented on the part of the proposal that concerns mink. I think it would be quite fair to divide it up, especially because several of us are not in the agreement. In relation to the content itself, we have proposed in the negotiations ourselves the part that is about debt advice, so we look at this positively, but we want to get that part divorced. Well, that brings me to something I'd like to finish my speech with. I know the Minister says that he takes the critical remarks with him, but it seems to me that this is not just about this bill. Today we have two legislative procedures for legislative texts, which both run up to more than 600 pages, and even if we were not in a time of pandemic and urgent legislation, I would think that was fair, even in the way it sticks in the East and the West. So I simply hope that this will be corrected in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143914	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143932	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the Socialist Group. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416143948	Thank you for that, President. Denmark has a tradition of using legislation to balance consideration for each other. The risk profile and business model of companies with regard to investor protection and confidence in financial stability are essential for a society that will be involved in promoting the new and the smart. Then we must also ensure the virtues out of which the sector has grown. In Denmark there is a tradition that we as citizens can confidently trust our authorities and other social actors. This security is an essential factor for development and innovation. Just think of one of the first technological administrative tools to be used, namely the CPR registration. We accepted this because we had confidence in the authorities, who, in turn, could use CPR numbers to make public administration more flexible, without violating citizens, but for their benefit. On top of this administrative tool have grown several technological leaps and still with the preservation of citizens' confidence. A similar story can tell us about the financial sector where trust between institute and citizen is crucial. As citizens, we have fundamental confidence that the financial sector protects us in its actions. We also have the expectation that the authorities will help ensure that the citizens are not exposed to excessive and unaccepted risks. Today's draft law, L 207, must help us to continue to have confidence in the financial sector and its products. The draft law ensures sound supervision of investment firms, sensible and targeted regulation of capital and solvency, liquidity and management and management in relation to risks, which are indeed tools for the financial company. But there are also points where one can sin, so that confidence is put under pressure or even overwhelmed, and the aim of the draft law is to prevent this. The object of L 207 are fund-brokers, their services and their performance of investment services and activities. Fortunately, Denmark is not going alone in this area, as the legislative proposal is a follow-up to the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the supervision of investment firms, which is to be seen in the context of the new regulation, Regulation No. Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1). The Danish tradition is to be precise with the safeguarding of balances, so that we help to create the confidence that allows for sensible investment in industry and society. With these considerations, the Social Democratic Party is prepared to support L 207.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416144315	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I do not note that there are brief remarks to be made to the rapporteur. And so I can welcome the next rapporteur, who comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416144334	Thank you for the floor. Once again, this is a very comprehensive draft law from the Minister for Industry. I think we're going to hit 776 pages this time, but still it's so thematic in the same field. It is indeed based on two directives on the supervision of investment firms and supervisory requirements for investment firms, but it also has a hang-up in the Working Group on the review of financial regulation, which is a working group set up under the former government with a view to the many, many tightenings that we have made in financial regulation on top of the financial crisis. I guess that doesn't belong to the big surprise. That is why, of course, it is also necessary to try to roll back things that just cause too much trouble and bureaucracy. However, one of the recommendations of the working group was that fund brokers and investment services and activities should have their own draft law and thus be separated from the law on financial activities. The aim of the amendments is not to change the level of protection, but essentially to maintain a high level of investor protection and to ensure confidence in the financial sector and to ensure financial stability. In the Left, we are generally in favour of EU directives being implemented so-called directive close, so close to what has been agreed in the European Union and that we do not make special Danish additions. In general, it is therefore an advantage for Danish companies if we do not have Danish special rules which can impose potential burdens on Danish companies that competing companies in other EU countries do not have to worry about. So we would like this bill to be closer to the directive than it really is. But, of course, we stand by the agreements we have been involved in the financial conciliation process. And since the starting point for the over-implementation that is mainly taking place here is tied up with previous agreements in the financial conciliation circle, we naturally respect that. However, we have brought up in the financial conciliation circle and we have made an agreement that three years after the entry into force of this bill, an evaluation must be made of whether the right balance has been struck between the implementation of a directive and the continuation of national special rules which do not concern remuneration, on which we have a specific agreement. However, I am sorry to say that the undertaking that an evaluation should be carried out shows me that I may have overlooked something on the 776 pages not from the draft law, so I would like to ask the Minister to confirm today that we have agreed to evaluate the law after three years of operation. In the same context and in the past it would be natural to have a neighboring check in some areas, for example, one of the consultation responses shows that it is possible to assess the possibility of giving fund-brokers a wider access to so-called ancillary services than that resulting from MiFID II, taking into account both a high level of investor protection and the competitiveness of Danish fund-brokers in relation to fund-brokers in comparable countries. We would like to see a neighboring check done on that. In fact, I also believe that I have stumbled upon a simple relaxation of the rules, namely in relation to access to the press. If you are a small fund-broker, you should not necessarily open the doors of a journalist, but where there is more money at stake, the rules are maintained. But it's just to sign that I've managed to find a simple relaxation as part of this bill. I am not counting on the jubilee and popular procession of enthusiastic Danes when this bill is adopted, but it should not stop me from saying that we in the Left fundamentally welcome the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416144803	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And I am scoffing at the fact that the next rapporteur is already ready. This is the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, so welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416144826	I really believe that the Minister for Industry has been lucky today that out of the two legislative proposals on a total of 1,500 pages, the most positive thing has been chosen to go home, I would have almost said, at least the bill that may give the least kissejav is not what it is called on Funen? It was not quite good with the first bill, L 193, but with this the Minister of Business has hit the dial, compared to that it contains something concrete and such more is only about a field of action. This may be because it is an area in which there is a little more conciliation and a little more blue hands in it. Perhaps that could be one of the reasons for this. But it should not change the fact that the Danish People's Party welcomes this and will also vote in favour of it. It is a legislative proposal aimed at achieving better regulation and it must target all the fund-brokers and their operations; the services they provide; the advice they provide to their customers; the way they sell their products; the business models they have; and the risk profile that is also on their products. This should help to increase confidence in the industry from an investor point of view. It's good music. This enhances investor protection, and we also share the reasoning used by the Minister for Industry in his submission. This bill implements a targeted, better regulation of fund brokers in relation to the demands we make on them, in relation to such things as capital and solvency requirements and also to the liquidity that lies, management competences, ownership circles and governance in relation to all kinds of risks. Then it is true, as the Socialist rapporteur said, that some of it is also within the scope of a new EU regulation. We are not so happy about this, but it is not an EU regulation that means that we will vote against the legislative proposal. Of course, we do not, because when things go sensibly hand in hand, we do not mind that it also smells a bit of the European Union in this area. So the Danish People's Party can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145031	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Theresa Berg Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145043	Thank you for the floor. If financial stability and security are to be maintained, SF considers that the solution is more supervision and clear regulation and not the opposite. The aim of the regulation in this area is to ensure financial stability and confidence in the market for investment services and activities in the EU. This is done by ensuring that fund brokers are not required to navigate a directive and regulation jungle. The new law considers SF to be a good tool for providing clarity and overview of the regulations of the fund brokers' companies as well as the provision and execution of investment services and activities. The new main law will ensure greater clarity for fund brokers and will at the same time ensure greater investor protection, as the regulations and supervision in this area will be clearer than they have been in the past. Having said that, there are not two fund-brokers that are the same. Therefore, it makes good sense that the new law takes account of the different business models and risk profiles of the fund-brokers. That is why the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145147	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I can therefore welcome the next rapporteur. That is the rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145203	Thank you. Radicals also support the bill, I might as well make it clear quickly. As everyone else has said, a new main law is being created, which actually helps to ensure that it is more transparent, including with regard to the rules that apply to the fund-brokers. We think that makes a great deal of sense. Then there is both the directive and the regulation, of which we naturally also support the implementation. We find it very positive that greater transparency is being created and that all the Danish fund-brokers' companies are being included in the IFD Directive and the IFR Regulation, and that is why we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145251	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur here. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145303	Now I made a long speech before, and I intend to do so again; no, I hope that the speech before can compensate for this. The Enhedslisten supports the implementation of the underlying directive, which separates fund brokers from the regulatory framework governing financial institutions, unless there will be large companies operating banking-like activities in the future. It is important for us that the new sector-specific regulation does not involve any relaxation, or that we relax security, which is why we welcome the Government's intention to continue with the national special rules in this area, which help everyone to have a fair and equal chance, to lay down rules of good practice and to prohibit speculation. The existing national special rules constitute an important social concern, contribute to the protection of stability and serve confidence in the overall financial sector. And if these things continue, we can support the proposal in the Enhedslisten. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145402	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are also no brief comments on the Enhedslisten rapporteur in this round. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145426	Thank you for the floor. Then we need to create a new main law for the fund-brokers, i.e. these companies that buy and sell securities for their customers, and some of them also carry out a number of financial transactions, even if they are not banks. The regulation of this must, of course, be adapted to the different business models and risk profiles of the fund-brokers, while maintaining a high level of protection for investors and confidence in the financial sector and its stability. It is therefore a question of more targeted regulation of fund brokers in the areas of capital, solvency, liquidity, management and management in relation to risks, which are, in fact, almost literally included in the draft law's almost 800 pages. This is an implementation of an EU directive, which must be seen in the context of a new regulation, and both relate to prudential requirements for investment firms. However, this is also an over-implementation, which is balanced, because it is also important to maintain certain national rules. At least that's how I understand parts of the business as well. I also think that this can work, as it is also estimated that there are positive administrative consequences for business. It is just before you can break out in cheer there and say: Juhu! It is not often that we see it. There has also been a working group in progress and the draft law follows its recommendations. At the same time, the consultation responses are positive with regard to this law, which applies to fund-brokers. I can understand that. And, of course, we have to listen to this, because the old set of rules has led to unnecessary complex and disproportional regulation. Now we are talking about more agile and more liberal government and proportionality without compromising investor protection and capital requirements, and that is why the Conservative People's Party is voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145608	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. I can see that the next rapporteur is in the booth, and that is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145630	New citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145632	It's noted. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, who did not even touch the speaker's desk, and thus spared a wet swab. I do not see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance present in the Chamber, which is why I can now give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145643	Thank you. And thank you for the very positive comments on this bill, albeit to the long side, but that is probably when we establish a completely new and separate law for an area such as fund-brokers and for the provision and performance of investment services and activities that we have at stake here. The aim of this new law is to provide greater clarity and overview of the regulation, without changing the level of protection currently guaranteed by the rules for customers seeking investment services, etc. Customers and companies must therefore be able to gain an overview of the regulation specific to fund brokers and the provision of investment services in the future. The draft law also ensures that the regulation takes more account than it does today of the specific characteristics of the fund-broker area, including that fund-broker companies do not receive deposits or offer loans as financial institutions. The draft law lays down a number of prudential requirements and frameworks for fundbrokers, which are targeted and aligned with the different business models and risk profiles of the fundbrokers, as well as the size of the fundbrokers. In addition, as has also been said, the draft law provides for the continuation of a number of existing national rules for the fund-brokers' companies, and this concerns, among other things. on the remuneration rules for the financial sector and rules to support sound management of the financial undertaking and address conflicts of interest. The existing national rules generally aim to support a high level of investor protection and trust in fund brokers. This aims to maintain confidence in the overall financial sector and, therefore, the financial stability of our lovely country. Then, at the request of the rapporteur of the Left, I would just like to confirm that we have agreed in the financial conciliation that three years after the date of entry into force, an evaluation will be made as to whether the right balance has been struck between the implementation of the directive and the continuation of these national rules which do not concern remuneration. It's just confirmation that, as agreed, we'll get this evaluation after three years, and now it's also said here from the platform. I do not know whether that in itself triggers the jubilments and recorded as Mrs Mona Juul either predicted would come or would not come, but Mrs Juul seemed to be able to take the lead if we had to get there. Thank you for your positive comments. I look forward, of course, to further legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416145926	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed. That is not the case. But I have been told that there is a minister on the way, and that means that he is at the Palace Square it is a little far away. But I am happy to entertain you, because I think it might seem a little violent to start and make a few calls when we know that the Minister is actually in the building. Now I go so far as to say that the Minister is in the building. I don't know about his physical form, i.e. how his fitness, etc. I do, but I have an expectation that with his long legs he can jump up the stairs. He has done so, and I see him in the Chamber now, and so we can be happy to proceed with the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416150108	The debate has been opened and the first rapporteur to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416150136	Thank you for the floor. With L 204 we have here a good collection of various changes which should make it easier, among other things. in relation to the licensing law, in relation to the law on tattooing and the law on tobacco. Some of the points I would like to highlight are, among other things, the following: that of the tattoo law, where some of the things you point out, for example. If you do not pay your fee, or if you have not adjusted your registration, you are giving the possibility here that with the system administered by the Security Board you can lift the right to make tattoos. It is something that has a direct impact on the citizens out there that it is done properly and in respect of the health that there is. So at all, this is a good law that allows you to change basic things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416150256	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur to speak is the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Martin Geertsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416150308	Thank you for the floor. After all, with this bill, we are dealing with a series of legislative changes, which, I suppose, can be said to be quite calm, there is not really a great deal of coherence, actually quite the opposite. After all, the many legislative changes that have just happened at random can make the debate a little bit difficult, because it can come down in a slightly different direction, and that is not my wish, because these are essentially quite reasonable and, in fact, logical legislative changes, which have not given rise to the very large protests either in relation to the consultation material as a whole. I'm just gonna get an ultracard to concentrate on two impact points. Clarification of the concept of the operator, i.e. the responsibility of the regions, municipalities or private companies, is extremely sensible, as it is a clarification of who is responsible for ensuring that health professionals also have the technical equipment, the correct training, etc. in relation to being able to record correctly. I think this is a very, very important clarification of the legislation, which I am also quite convinced that large parts of the health care staff consider to be very important. We are also basically in line with the intentions described that records are both a professional tool and the patient's ability to gain insight into his treatment. And now, when I come to health records, I would like to say that, at least during committee proceedings, we will be asking questions about the exchange of health records between health professionals, because health records are not and must not become some sort of commodity, if you will. Therefore, exchange must also be able to take place in a reassuring manner, and that is why we are also aware of the role of the Patient Safety Agency, which we think is perfectly reasonable in this context. Also, the Security Authority's increased ability to monitor, through the use of hidden identity, that among other things. The retail trade does not sell illegal or, in the legislative sense, particularly risky tobacco and tobacco-like products, has our attention. I am quite clear that the use of controls under concealed identity may be necessary and that, in this context, it should not be confused with the young mystery shoppers who were at issue when implementing the tobacco action plan. After all, we ended up with a very sensible result, but we will in any case, during the work of the committee, be asking a number of questions which can give us complete clarity about the use of hidden identity and the financing of the same. I don't think there's any reason to prolong the tension. I would just like to say that the Left supports the intentions of the draft law and, of course, also supports the law as a whole at first reading, and I look forward to the work of the committee. And then, quite unusually, I should say hello from the Radicals, I don't think I have actually tried that before and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416150621	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left and it is noted that there is a greeting from the Radical Left. So I can give the floor to the next rapporteur who is present in the Chamber, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416150639	Thank you very much. Well then, it's good that I have a lot to do with this bill, which otherwise, when you look into it, seems like a jumble of a lot of laws, but that's how it is: When you open a bill, there's a lot in it. After all, this is a draft law amending the law on the authorisation of health professionals, and then there are equal tobacco products and such a little different in. So there are seven different amendments, and the previous rapporteurs have mentioned some of them, so I would like to highlight those that I think are important for the Danish People's Party. Paragraph 4 on the transfer of dental records: I therefore believe that this should be done with the patient's consent. There can be a great many personal things that you do not want to be passed on. There are a lot of people who think that in a dental journal it just says that you have pulled out a tooth and made a seal, but there can be a lot of personal information. Dentists can see if someone has been exposed to incest; they can see if you suffer from anorexia; they can actually see a lot of diseases in your mouth. Therefore, I believe that a dental record must be as safe as a regular medical record, and we need to talk about this being the patient's medical record and not the system's medical record. The Minister answers in the consultation note that, in practice, when your dentist stops, closes or transfers practice to another place of treatment, you do not really need the patient's consent to the record. And they're private dentists, they're private people. It was something else if it were in the public system where we have a healthcare system. I'd like to change that. Over the past few years we have seen the acquisition of clinics, where businessmen, foreign investors invest, it is capital funds that make large clinics where they hire dentists. And that's who your files can be with. And it happens in a way that I don't like. You can have an ageing dentist who has a single practice and who, when he becomes a pensioner, cannot carry on the clinic because there has to be someone over 70 years of age and it is also silly something. But then they go into company, there'll be a few months, because they seem to have sold their file, and then they retire, and then your file is in a big dentist's house with a lot of dentists. So I think we should do something about that, and I will of course ask questions about that and possibly an amendment. On paragraph 5, a rapporteur just touched on the tattooists. In the Danish People's Party we have been pioneers of the fact that there should be an authorisation for tattooists, precisely in order to ensure that when citizens go to a tattoo artist, they know that there is an education, that there are hygiene requirements and so on. It ended after 10 years, I think, where we worked on it until it became a registration. It meant they came under supervision. So why have they had to keep closed under the corona when there was actually supervision? At the same time, while they have been kept closed, the registration amount has been increased so that they have had a difficult time. They could not earn any money, but suddenly they had to pay a larger amount, which they have never been aware of, because it was a new law that applied to the tattooists. So I think you could have shown something conduite and said that this is something new, and then we stretch it until they start making money again, or at least we leave them open because they are now under supervision. Because when I've asked the minister why there are some who haven't been able to keep open under the corona, it's masseurs, foot nurses, psychomotor therapists, or whatever it may be, because they're not authorized. And then we come to an issue that the Danish People's Party attaches great importance to, and that is that all our healthcare professionals should have an authorisation, so that we ensure that they have an education and that they receive supervision visits from the Board for Patient Safety. That is why the Danish People's Party will table some amendments when we have the law open, which means that we will be tabling amendments to the effect that we will have a number of authorisations for acupuncturers, masseurs, psychomotor therapists, foot nurses, psychotherapists and social and health workers, now that we are in the process. So, of course, I would like to ask the Minister if we should not make some good amendments on this, so that we can ensure that work is started to authorise the whole range of professionals who actually have an education behind them. They do something for people who are in pain. They haven't been able to do it under the corona. At the same time, we can ensure that it comes under supervision. So I hope, of course, that several of the Danish Parliament's parties can support that we make it safer and safer to be a citizen of Denmark. Otherwise, however, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151144	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is ready. It is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome to Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151201	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I also think I would like to start by saying that the fact that there are a lot of legislative proposals in the same draft law is a bad thing, and that makes it a little bit difficult. Now it is so fortunate this time that it is a collection of technical changes that we are going to support on, for example. It is precisely the proposal that it should be the operator's responsibility that it be clarified with a view to ensuring proper and flexible record keeping in health care. However, I would also like to emphasise that I agree with the Danish People's Party, which places particular emphasis on the patient's record. It's not the system's file. So it is also quite important for SF that we ensure that it is on the patient's premises that you have access to the records. It is also positive that the Danish Security Authority will have increased reaction possibilities when tattooists do not pay their fee for maintaining registration, and it is positive that the powers of the Danish Safety Authority will be clarified in the tobacco sector. So, overall, I would just like to say that the SF will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151316	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur there. I'm looking for a rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Kirsten Normann Andersen I forgot to say...) SF's rapporteur is welcome to just give a greeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151331	Perhaps I should hurry to keep a promise of greeting from the Enhedslisten, which unfortunately cannot be here because the rapporteur is negotiating right now. The unitary list also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151341	Thank you very much for that information. It's noted. In this way, I can give the floor to the Conservative People's Party and to the rapporteur, Mr President. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151357	Thank you. There is, as some have also mentioned, a slightly mixed bouquet here. There is a certain rationale in that, it has to be said, and I am quite happy to do so because I have to catch a plane. But apart from that, I would like to say that record keeping must of course be correct, and it must also be done in good time. Of course, the records in the field of dental treatment must also be available, and some flexibility may be needed, but with the information I have now been provided by Mrs Liselott Blixt, I have to say that perhaps there is something we should have looked at there. Because I actually thought that a dental record was mostly about seals and caries and other different things, which, like only the mouth. But if there's anything there, let's have a look at it. Then, of course, when some clinics close, the records must of course be delivered in the right way, and it should not necessarily be handed over to the Patient Safety Board. In relation to the tattooists, it is clear that they must, of course, make sure that they pay the fees that the Danish Security Agency will use to finance their business. Otherwise, of course, they should not have the opportunity to tattoo and take money for it. Of course, the EU's market surveillance regulation must also be implemented, and we in Denmark must also meet those requirements in relation to the trade in tobacco products in online trading. Of course, we also need to address the legislative changes that have been proposed. So, overall, we in the Conservative People's Party support the elements, but of course we look forward to the committee reading, where there can be some comments too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151540	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens. Welcome to sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151601	We are basically positive. We have a few questions. Now it's such a joint bill. Before, we were discussing two proposals from the Minister for Industry. They were then 715 and 780 pages. This is a little shorter, although it's also long. I thought I was looking for some figures on these registration fees that the tattooists are paying. For them, I would like to look at the size and how they pay them. I didn't think I could find it in the annexes. So if it is not there, I would like to have it sent when we deal with it in committee. Then I very, very much agree with the Danish People's Party that the corona here has shown that there have been some professional groups that have fallen through and that have not been allowed to keep open and that I think should have been allowed to open and perhaps have brought some quality of life to some people during this period that they have not been given. If we can get it braided in here, it's definitely something we're looking at positively in New Citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151658	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. I do not see the Liberal Alliance rapporteur present in the Chamber, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Health. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416151721	Thank you for that, President. I think there is now almost a new record for so many different changes in such a short time. But we should not be wrong: it is not at all because the rapporteurs are not thorough, because some flags have been raised in different places, and so we have seen zoomed into the essentials. The reason why it is a bouquet I've heard several people mention it here too, and I understand this is that it's practice, when large parts of it is something like technique, to pile it together, although technique is of course also a normative consideration and one can ask whether it is technique or politics. But that does not change the fact that the parties are of course welcome to ask questions about a single element and, if you need amendments or anything else, of course we are looking at it. But from the Ministry's side it was thought that because there's so much technique in it, it makes sense to get it pooled here. However, it is quite true that we are talking about several amendments to the Health Act here. I'm gonna go over this for the record. There is therefore, firstly, an amendment to the licensing law to improve and update the regulatory framework for registering in health care. First of all, it is proposed to improve patient safety, strengthen the legal position of healthcare professionals and establish a clear legal framework so that the operator's organisational conditions clearly support proper and timely record keeping, which is at the same time transparent and does not go beyond what is necessary. In addition, it is proposed to create a more flexible framework for the taking-over of patient records across professional groups in the field of dental treatment, so that the treatment of patients is not unduly complicated or delayed. It is also proposed to strengthen the possibilities of accessing health records when clinics etc. closes and the records are not transferred to the Patient Safety Management Board for various reasons according to the rules. I have heard the few parties who have raised some questions here. As I heard them, I consider that the scepticism or concern that has been can be well accommodated and that, in this way, we have good answers to it. But I suggest that we take it in committee because we are in a reasonable technical area here. But as I just heard, I think it is actually possible to get the scepticism in the ground. But let's take a look. Secondly, we have the tattoo area, and it is true, as was also mentioned, that in 2018 a monitoring and registration system was introduced in the field of tattooists. The intention was, among other things, to: to ensure that tattoo sites in Denmark comply with specified requirements in order to carry out tattooing for professional purposes. There is funding for the scheme and it is through a fee charged to the owner of the tattoo site. The fee shall be paid when registering the Tattoo at the Security Authority and thereafter every year on the date of registration. And it has therefore been shown that there have been examples of tattoo sites which have not paid the annual fee but which nevertheless carry out tattooing for professional purposes. The National Security Agency has no response to the owners if they do not pay the annual fee, and it is probably a little difficult to convince people that it is a good idea to do so. So the purpose of this part of the bill is to give the Security Authority a reaction opportunity for non-payment and at the same time give the owner of the tattoo site an incentive to pay the annual fee. I cannot say why it was not included in the original introduction back in 2018, but it is certainly very wise always, when you introduce something like this, that there is also an incentive for you to pay that fee and that it can be verified. The proposal then establishes a system to ensure that the registration of the tattoo site is cancelled if the annual fee is not paid. I guess that's a pretty simple way to do it. This means, of course, that if you do not pay, it will no longer be legal for the tattoo to perform tattoo. If you continue to tattoo, despite the fact that you have not paid this fee, you will eventually be able to report to the police, so you also have an incentive to comply with these rules here. Thirdly, we have market surveillance on tobacco and related products, and some people mentioned this from the platform. A few words on this: the EU's market surveillance regulation requires the implementation of certain minimum powers in national legislation in relation to controls in a number of product areas, and this also applies to products covered by the Tobacco Products Directive. Against this background, a number of provisions are proposed to the Danish Security Agency, including: that the Board is empowered to control under hidden identity and to require the removal of content from an online interface or ultimately to block access to online interfaces that sell dangerous or illegal products. The provisions of the proposal shall apply to all products covered by the Tobacco Products Act, etc. and the law on electronic cigarettes, etc. in order to protect consumers, whether tobacco or related products they buy are EU-harmonised. It is also proposed to provide, which consolidates the control of the products that became part of the legislation with regard to tobacco and related products, with the adoption of the bill on 21 December 2020 • that is what implements national action plan against children and young people's smoking. The concern expressed, I believe, is that we can actually handle and contain and mane in the ground in relation to what is becoming reality. This is not the introduction of the physical mystery shopping that was discussed. That is absolutely right, it was a debate, but it is not the introduction that is being proposed here. But let us provide some answers so that we get it black in white and possibly as part of the material in the law, so that you can clearly get in writing what it is, I mean when I say these things here, because you can define it in many different ways. Good. Finally, we will have a number of legislative changes in the psychiatry law and the radiation protection law, and it is also about meeting the EU Commission's implementation practice, but also about correcting a number of errors in the psychiatry law, and the last part of it is primarily for me to see technique, but it is always good to have some corrections corrected. So in those words I thank you for Parliament's attention and I look forward to the committee reading and, of course, as I said, I am making myself available to answer the questions. There have been some questions raised and some concerns expressed, and I hope that we can address the concerns in the ground and get a good explanation for them, because these are good questions that have been raised and, as I understand the technique in this, there will also be some good answers to those concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416152438	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416152535	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416152540	Thank you. We are therefore taking two motions for resolutions and discussing them together this afternoon, and they are both about the rights of birthers. These are two proposals, one requiring the government to submit a bill containing requirements for all the country's maternity departments from 2022 onwards to offer at least two days' maternity and partner stays, and the other requiring the government to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiation before the summer break 2021 in order to ensure a number of minimum rights for the child and their partners, thereby also ensuring improved working conditions for the employees of the svangroomsorgen. These are the proposals, and I must say that I very much welcome them, because in general there is a need to provide our health services with a solid foundation and resources for more staff. This is not generally the case in our health services, because this is something we have prioritised with economic boosts in economic agreements and in the Finance Act, but the birth area, and that is what we are talking about now, is an area where, in addition to the general boost, concrete measures are needed to improve the conditions of the employees, of the fooders and of the families. I have noted that there is a broad consensus among the parties in the Folketing that something has to be done and that improvements have to be made, because there have been too many years in which this area has not been given sufficient priority. I would also like to say that in the document of understanding made after the parliamentary elections, between the government, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslist, it is very clear that improvements to the conditions of birth will be a priority in the health agreement, and we will have to negotiate on that this year. We have announced that we will have to negotiate and come forward with proposals for a health agreement in this calendar year. To be prepared, we have initiated an inclusive process to improve the conditions of the feeding and, as part of the preparation of a health agreement in general, we have specifically set in motion various focused actions, and one of them is therefore an involving process on the conditions of the feeding. That work must, of course, make us more aware of what solutions are needed, because it is, and it is typical of health, not one solution that needs to be found everywhere, but many different solutions. And some things that are going to be huge progress in some parts of the country are everyday in other parts of the country, while there are other things to which they say that it almost feels like something we miss while the other places just have it. So it is not the case that there are huge problems everywhere, but in some places there are too many problems, and in general there needs to be a boost. It's to say that the birth area is complex. Something is about prioritising the economy for staff recruitment, and something is about organisation, management, retention of employees, prevention and security for those who are born. Therefore, there is no simple handle where you can say that that is what it takes, and then conditions will be improved after so many years here. There are several things that need to be done, and it is about the preparation of birth, it is about the birth itself, and it is about the time after birth, and at each of those stages there are a large number of measures. We know, let us take it from the end that good preparation for birth is the prerequisite for a good birth process, of course to a particular extent for first-time feeding. The concern, the anxiety, the problems are being reduced when, as a child, you get answers to the questions by a competent, present staff who both see and hear the individual's situation, and it also increases the woman's self-sufficiency, as is stated in this language, to be able to handle the birth, so in every way it is a sensible investment. It reduces the use of medical pain relief and improves the woman's birth experience. And it is the case that, in principle, maternity preparation takes place in all health care contacts with the pregnant woman and her partner. So all those involved must know their task and do the qualified. We also know today that there is a greater proportion of pregnant women who have a chronic illness or mental illness than we have known in the past, and this leads to more complex processes. There are special offers in our regions to pregnant women who need extra support, but this naturally also leads to more contacts with the maternity wards, so there are also increased requirements for documentation; we know that. There is also an increased number of scans that are good due to the technical possibilities we have obtained from fetal diagnostics. That's really, really good. It is not because it is of bad will, but all of this helps us to end up with very little room to deal with the issues and concerns of the pregnant woman in the preparation for birth. In addition to the individual consultations, there are also maternity preparations in teams. I mentioned earlier that there was a huge geographical difference. So is there here. In some places it is very, very large teams, and it is not optimal. It is perfectly well documented in the research that, if you have class education, there must be an opportunity for dialogue and for the pregnant woman to be asked in person any questions she may have. It is essential to feel safe during the birth process. During birth, it is essential that competent staff are present. It goes without saying, but also that there is tranquillity around the course of birth, and that the birther experiences the birth as safe and secure. We cannot avoid this, and we have to face the fact that there are, and will continue to be, periods in which there will be peaks. It is a basic condition because it cannot be planned exactly when births arrive. So there will be times and days with sudden peaks, but the impression is that there are many places of birth where it gets very pressured and too pressured in these peak situations, and the pregnant woman suffers. The organization that was made for dealing with peak loads in some places seems to have become everyday, and that is not the way it should be. There must be enough staff at work to ensure time for the birthing when she is in active labor, and a standarding that ensures that transfer to another maternity ward is very rarely necessary • so very rarely in extreme situations with peak stress, but that should not be the rule, the norm. Finally, we need to focus on the follow-up and how we support the new families better when they come home from the maternity ward. In relation to the post-natal course, it is important that there is a safety net for mother and child from the time they have returned from the hospital until the healthcare provider takes over. The health care provider today meets newly baked parents who do not feel that they are in control, for example. breast-feeding when they come home from the hospital. We have proposed from the government that new mothers should have the right to stay in the hospital or a maternity hotel for two days if they so wish. Of course, this is not a compulsion. But if they want it and need it, it is a proposal from us. We know that some people would rather go home, and there are some places in Denmark where they already have arrangements, where those who then have to go home early will then have follow-up visits by a midwife or a health care professional. It is also excellent if it makes the best sense, but one should then have the opportunity to say: I would actually rather stay in a hospital or a maternity hotel. The crucial thing is that the birther has a choice, both if and when he is comfortable in going home, and it then requires that there is time and there is tranquility to support and guide the departments. I would very, very much like to make it clear here that giving birth rights will not help if there is no time to address the issues. Then we will only pass on one more task to the already over-pressed maternity wards. So that can't be the goal. There has to be funding and organisation. Newborns and parents thrive when they are comfortable with the situation and they know where to ask questions and when to visit them. If they experience it, they are also able to handle everything that follows. The National Health Service is reviewing the recommendations for svangroomsorgen. Those recommendations are actually back from 2013, so it is good that we have them reviewed. In addition, the recommendations for organising the birth area will also come this year. I believe that the two recommendations for svangroomsorgen and for organisation give us a good professional basis, a professional basis, to discuss how we from the political groups on top of it agree and improve the conditions for the birthers. So let me conclude by mentioning that we, on the part of the government, want to improve the conditions for giving birth. We are working on this, and this stakeholder meeting has been held, and we have ongoing dialogue to work further on the basis of the many good inputs. The Danish Health Authority comes here before summer with recommendations both on svangroomsorgen and on the organisation of the food area. I look forward to this very much, and when they are available, I will take the initiative to present them to the parties as a starting point for discussions on how we can improve the conditions for those who are born. We have announced that we will negotiate with the parties of the Folketing on a health agreement in which improving the conditions for giving birth will be a priority. We will continue to do so, and I look very much forward to those discussions. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153647	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments to the Minister, first from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153654	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for your reply. It is quite true that we have such a common agreement in the understanding paper that we must improve conditions in the field of food. It is also true that there are a great many things that need improvement. One of the things that needs improvement has been the Minister himself speaking to Femina in February this year: the need for at least two days in which you have the opportunity to restitute in a maternity ward or in a maternity hotel it doesn't work very well. So if we want to solve the problem that we agree on is a challenge, regardless of what the recommendations of the Danish Health Service would be in relation to svangroomsorg, does it not make sense to have it decided once and for all? At least we have one less problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153756	Yes, and I repeated it here too, because I believe that it will solve a number of problems. But I also said, and I know that at least the SF has said so; otherwise I would also be very surprised if they did not think that such a right would only be hollowed out and would only harm if there were no financial consequences. And so, it's not to shoot at others or to do something like that, but we can't keep loading in this Parliament, compared to earmarking things, and saying that now we have to solve it and just solve it if not the economy follows. And when you do that, you cut your legs off under it, and that's probably something that has happened sometimes in our area, and it just doesn't work anymore. So it's time to keep up with the economy. And what's this gonna cost? I can tell you that in our calculations it is some preliminary calculations that are just over 100 million. kr. Every year, so we have to be able to finance that annually. And that is why we will look forward to putting it into some negotiations where there is also an economy on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153857	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153900	Thank you. I totally understand that nothing is free. But it is also expensive when parents have to go to the hospital again and again after a birth and are insecure and fearful in relation to how things are now going on. I think that Femina's readers would be extremely disappointed that the Minister does not, as it were, stand by this promise, that we should at least ensure these two days' maternity leave for the families after the end of birth, where it is needed. Of course, I don't want to force anyone to stay in the hospital either. Actually, I think most people want to go home. So it will also be those who have the need to remain and resolve that problem once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416153944	Yes, thank you for the follow-up question. I can then have the opportunity to make it clear both to Femina's readers and to the rest of Denmark that we are absolutely firm on the promise and the announcement that it is our clear goal to introduce this right, if needed, for two days' stay in the maternity ward, hospital, maternity hotel, or how to organize it now. So we are completely in favour of this, and it should only be done in a way that does not at the same time squander the money from a system that already needs resources. So money must be added, and we are, of course, ready to put forward that funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154026	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154030	Thank you, I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his kindness. It's as close to a yes as I almost think you can get without getting it. I particularly note that the Minister also says that it is important for competent staff to be present. So, regardless of the fact that we may disagree on when we should start these negotiations here, it seems that we agree on the direction for them. In it lies so, among other things. We must also do something about the flight of staff from the svangrooms and the maternity halls; all the midwives who go from the public to the private. There are vacancies around. There are recruitment problems. And most recently we have seen over a quarter of the country's midwives and midwife students sign a declaration that they simply will not sign contracts with the public until they get better employment conditions, including better pay conditions. Can the Minister not try to answer what the consequences would be if the quarter of all the country's midwives and midwife students take seriously what they say?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154152	There are some job functions that the Danes value incredibly. The midwives are some of those who are hero, all the way to the top. At the same time, I also believe that it is a job function that is so well described that sometimes we are a little stuck in the old-fashioned view of what it is to be as a midwife. What's the job? Well, that's to redeem a birth, and that's it. And it's not. There's far, far more. It's much more complex. It is because society is more complex and we can prevent much more and we have become very, very skilled. This means that there are many, many elements, that is, other elements than just redeeming the birth that the midwife should be able to. And we need every single one of them. What we don't need is to have situations where midwives escape. We need midwives to be attracted and maintained because they want to be maintained and want to continue to have jobs in the maternity wards and with all the other tasks. It would be disastrous for the public sector and for our birth offer if there were to be such a flight, as the study mentioned here is an expression of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154303	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154305	Well, I fully agree with that, and I think it is very important to understand that one thing is to ensure that we put in some more money and finance some rights for birthers and partners, which will then give rise to the recruitment of more midwives, but that is of course also about exactly what the minister is saying, precisely that a midwife cannot just stand and seize children all day long, that is something that cannot be kept at all. It's planning, but it's actually pay. In other words, this is a subject which has also gone down in relation to their length of training and responsibilities in the pay hierarchy in the public sector. And what the 1.075, i.e. a quarter of all midwives and midwife students say, is that we will not work without being recognised with a proper salary too. The pay conditions for midwives are also part of the working conditions that we need to look at if we are to be able to recruit some more of them, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154406	Well, I'd very, very much like to avoid that, and I guess we don't quite agree that we're bringing this debate into the Assembly Hall. Now there are public collective agreements and other things. We have the Danish model and I think it is important that we respect it. So I won't go in and comment on that part of it. However, I would like to say that what is at stake is better conditions for the midwives and for the feeding ones, and I would very much like to take this on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154437	The next brief remark is to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154447	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the Minister, because many of the priorities mentioned by the Minister were precisely some of the ones we have in the Left's initiative in the field of birth. So it is very good for the forthcoming negotiations. After all, the then Blue Government gave priority to 50 million. kr. Every year specifically in the field of birth, and it can be seen that the minister himself mentions that unfortunately there is a very great difference in the regions, and some of these examples of horror, among others. Here in the Capital Region, it is clear that the 50 million. kr. Well, then haven't gotten the earth going, at least in some places. What are the Minister's thoughts on this? Why is it that some regions have given such hopeless priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154524	I quite agree with you that I am not so concerned about blaming previous governments. I myself have been part of a previous government, and we have a joint responsibility for this. Those who give birth now, and those who give birth next year... the prospective mothers... can't use it for anything, that we blame others, either on regions or governments, past or present. They can use one thing, and that's that we sit together. So I would like to thank you very much for the opening comment that the Left is also joining and ready to take responsibility for lifting this area. That is what is needed. Of course, there must also be some funding, and of course it will also be the case that the boost that will then come, and that is the good thing about it, can be tied up to the grief recommendations that the Danish Health Authority is about to make, and the organisational recommendation they are also about to make. And that is why we have a basis to say that the promise that will then come, if we succeed in obtaining a broad majority in the Danish Parliament about it, and I would be glad to see that we can bind up some very concrete improvements around the individual regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154632	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154635	Thank you. And thank you for that reply to the Minister or rather thank you for the reply, Minister, I think it is called. I'm new, so I'm allowed to mess it up a little bit. After all, the left has just been very active on the field in relation to this. We have also come up with a birthplay several weeks ago, and we cannot really wait to get started. And one of the resolutions here today is also about bringing the negotiations forward, so we have to start them before we go on summer vacation. I believe that in his opening speech the Minister himself used the word 'complex' in this area, and I do agree with the Minister in that regard all the more regrettable it is if we are to move this further into the future. I am concerned that the Minister's focus on corona will end up in the autumn, saying that the debate will be moved sometime in the new year. We simply cannot wait for that in the Left, and I am glad to hear that there are other parties who feel the same way. What are the Minister's thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154722	I totally agree that this can't wait any longer. The aim is to get it as part of a health agreement this year; it has been announced to the Parliament I have done so, and indeed our Prime Minister has done so, and we intend to do so. It is absolutely true that the Danish Health Authority, myself and the Ministry spend huge amounts of energy on the epidemic management, but our planning is also that we have to leave this acute epidemic management and of course could have it on a slightly lower blouse and then also focus on other areas. That is what we are preparing, and that is also where the future recommendations of the Danish Health Authority are concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154758	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154802	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the Minister. After all, it is good to hear that we all agree that this is an area that really requires a review. I note that the Minister repeats this here with the right to two days' stay in the hospital, and the Minister also mentions that it is, of course, associated with a relatively large printing, which requires some funding that goes without saying. I have also noted that when you talk to the professional environments, it is not a wish that is so high on the wish list out there, if it is there at all, and that is not the best way to use resources. There is clearly someone who needs 2 days' stay; there is someone who needs 1 day; there is someone who needs 3 days; and there is someone who needs to come home immediately. So why put it this way instead of saying that what we have to ensure, and I suppose we agree on that, is a good and safe start for all families, regardless of what their needs may be? What are the Minister's thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416154850	I have also noted that that position is there. I interpret a little as saying that some people in these environments have seen too many times that some politicians come from in here and just want to have some thing on too, but that they do not really fund it. Or you do it to finance it, but you underfinance the demography underneath, so you really feed the dog with your own tail, and the way to lead the public sector can't keep in the long run, and that's what we're seeing now. So I would like to say that what has to finance improvements in the field of birth cannot be financed in one way or another by the fact that we are giving a little less to demographic expenditure, as there is. That's what I hear. But so, we stand by it and I have to say that I think it is very much needed, and I think it is not sustainable, that we have mothers who are printed all too soon, as is happening today in several places, and to say it as it is, it was something we said very clearly in the election campaign, and we would very, very much like to keep to what we said in the election campaign. That is what the electorate voted for, and I think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155002	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155005	Thank you for that, and full respect for it, of course. When you promise something, you have to stand by it, and I also note that there are a number of parties that have the same wish. I just do not agree that this is the right way to use resources, but we must then go to the negotiating room. Instead, I would like to hear: we all agree that no one should be sent home too early. I hear the Minister say that here too, but the individual and individual approach to how to treat the individual family must surely be the goal here and how to ensure that we use the resources in the best way possible. I fully agree with what the Minister says about us not just feeding the dog with its own tail, but the individual approach to the family, which takes care of those who really need it and helps those at home who would rather be there, could, at least in my optics, be an approach to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155046	Yes, exactly, and that is why we need to look at it much more basically. It's not just about establishing one right, and then it was. I do not hear anyone saying that, so that is not a comment at all. However, if we are to help those who really have a great need, we must put in place early, and this is about preparation for birth. We also know from our health services in general that those who ask for help are typically resourceful, whereas those who are a little more resourceless in one way or another, socially or economically, are not really asking for help, and then we can risk introducing a right that only those who have the resources will benefit. So it is absolutely crucial that this is linked to the early effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155127	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155131	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. In other words, what are the real benefits, quite low-practical, of having this debate that could be started now moved into a health agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155149	There are several advantages to this. I believe that it can be seen that the birth area is closely linked to many other elements of our health system, and that is why I think it should be thought into the whole thing. So there are many, many good benefits of thinking so important a part of it along with other elements: what do we generally do with early efforts for children, for families that have challenges, etc.? There are a lot of elements that you can say that it makes good health sense to think it along with In addition, I would say that this is not going to be a free round, because we are going to finance the things that Stinus Lindgreen mentioned, not by feeding the dog with our own tail. We are going to finance it, and we are going to ask the Folketing to take responsibility for it. And such funding must then take place in a place where there is some money, and that is typical of a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155240	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155243	Thank you. Is there a certain risk that this will be a little watered down when it's put together with all sorts of other things? That was one question. The second question is: does this not mean that this is being delayed for six months when it is to be moved into a health agreement, so there are women who will have to give birth here in six months who will not benefit from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155305	Well, we have to be honest with each other and say: no matter how brilliant we are, and no matter how huge a check the various rapporteurs get from their rapporteur to put on the table, it will not be the case that Sunday after we sit around the table, things have been resolved and the problems ended, so that suddenly we have miraculously lots of midwives and everything is built and clear. It's not like that. Of course, we will do so as soon as possible, but it is such fundamental changes and problems that we need to address, and it will take some time to get it done, because it needs to be done properly and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155342	Thank you to the Minister then there are no more brief remarks to the Minister and thanks for preparing for the start of the rapporteur's series and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155411	Yes, the minister has shown a height something on the other side of 1 m and 80 cm, so I'm going to lower the desk a little bit here. There's more to your foreman. Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you to the authors of Enhedslisten and from the SF to call the parties of the Danish Parliament to a debate after the summer holidays both on the birth and on the two-day stay of pregnant women who have had a child. When we look at the discussion that has been going on over the last few months, yes, in fact for quite a long time, this is a subject that is extremely important and important. It is for the Danes, and it is for the Social Democratic Party too. We have been pointing out for a long time that we believe it is necessary to strengthen the field of birth, and it is of course essential for the individual family to have the family increase that comes in a safe environment. When you as newly baked parents experience that there can be so many unanswered questions and there are not enough resources in the maternity wards, the situation that should otherwise have been a good experience that could influence the rest of your parenthood becomes an incredibly stressful and is not very pleasant experience. We need to do something about this and, as the Minister so very well clarifies, we need to look at a long and proper work. In fact, I would also like to pay a great deal of tribute to the Minister for a visitor's speech, perhaps for the public, but one of the things I was concerned with was the attention that is paid to mentally vulnerable, chronically ill and socially vulnerable. In fact, I think that this government at many levels has focused on this, and the parties of understanding that have been supportive have also focused on that. When I say that, it is not just because I am a family rapporteur, because I am also a social rapporteur, so the context which has just been clarified here by the Minister, I think is incredibly important. I just wanted to say that this is something that really makes me happy. We believe that it may be important to be given the right to have a stay at a maternity hotel. The opportunity you have is central and important. It is necessary to get breast-feeding started and to get dressed for it, so that both parents feel safe by bringing their young child home. In fact, I should also like to greet my fellow rapporteurs from a couple of nurses and a midwife at home in East Jutland, who, when I said I was going to come to you today and talk about birth and birth preparation and a good start to life, said: thank you very much for raising these questions. It is important, it is essential. And one of those I know stood in his nurse's clothes and mouthbands and was ready to make his huge effort on the way into the maternity ward. It is also a question of ensuring that the employees we have are properly dressed, as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten said in his question to the Minister. We believe that welfare has been under pressure for a long time, and we need to have the general welfare supported well, to ensure that we get through properly, so that it is not just here and now, but that birth preparation and births are given a proper boost at all. We need to make sure that this is made something essential and in a good way, and that is why we also hope that we can discuss this very carefully. We believe that this should lie in the work on a new health agreement and that the engaging process, which has also been with stakeholders, should be used as a starting point. It is therefore a question of really being done thoroughly and properly in the field of birth, not only here and now, but also for the future. We need those who are going to give birth in the future and new families to be safe in the future, so that there is peace and security in relation to the increase in the family when new families are to be set in motion. That is why we support the Minister and look forward to having some good discussions in committee on how to do the future work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416155918	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for also responding to a great deal of what has been addressed in both the proposals we are dealing with right now and also for recognising that there is a need for a more general increase in the food sector. I note that when I look down on what the Social Democrats themselves say they want to ensure that new mothers are entitled to a 2-day stay at the birthplace after birth. They also want to ensure quality in preparation for birth, and they also want to look at whether more birthplaces are needed. And they would also like to look at the right to give birth in the hospital with which you are now associated. So I am thinking that if the Social Democrats vote for a proposal on the right to a 2-day stay, if that is what you need after the end of your birth, you can cross 25%. of the list of here once and for all. What really prevents you from getting that cross once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160023	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160025	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for outlining our incredibly good programme about what it is about to do. However, I do think that the Minister has been very precise here, so that we get the economy to work together, that we get some action done in the future, that we get it done properly in terms of involving stakeholders, and that we have taken in the work that the Danish Health Authority is also doing in relation to preparing for health care. I would really like to credit the SF to be exactly in relation to that we have to do something. It is not a question of whether we should do something; it is a question of how we should do something. And that is where we point out that it must enter into the work that comes with the new Health Act. I think that is sensible and good, and it is the right place for it to lie. So I do not think you should wing 25%. or one quarter of what the rapporteur said there. 'Cause maybe you come instead of doing something wrong. That is why I believe that this should be the case in this debate on the Health Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160133	But one does not depend on the other. When we have just pointed out the proposal to grant the right to two days' residence after the end of birth, it is of course because several parties have just expressed their support for, among others. The mother helper's suggestion that it should be an opportunity and that it should be a right. After all, there is a huge difference between walking around and saying that we think so, and actually putting it on paper and saying that we should actually have made a decision on it. So why don't we all just say, "Now we're gonna strike, everybody"? We decide once and for all that now we need to improve this exact area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160211	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160212	Well, I actually think I'm very clear about the fact that I think we should have done something. It is not about whether we should have done anything; it is about how we do it. That's where we separate from each other. In other words, we believe that we will get the most thorough work done all around the family by entering into a new health agreement. In fact, I think it is important also to have a discussion with the municipalities on how to solve it when you are discharged from the hospital. I also think it is important to talk to civil society about how to bring them in, so it is geared all around.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160250	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160310	Thank you. And thank you to the SF and the Enhedslisten for having tabled these two motions for resolutions. It is a very important debate we are having today on a very important subject, so I have looked forward to it. We have all read the story of how a young woman in the middle of her birth with severe contractions was thrown into a taxi and drove from Herlev Hospital to Slagelse.It is well that it is a driving trip of almost an hour and the reason was simply that there was no room at Herlev Hospital. When I hear stories like that, it cuts my heart. Becoming parents of a newborn child is the release of many months of waiting, and it must be a happy moment for the newly baked parents. Unfortunately, history is not a single swallow, and the Left believes that the problems in the field of birth require political action now. The situation is serious, and I will go so far as to call it a definite failure of prospective and newly baked parents, a failure which may potentially have long-lasting consequences for parents and not least for the young newborns. And it is not just the children and the parents that we fail here. The well-being challenges of the workers in the country's maternity wards also cry out to heaven and cry out for action. The government has not yet taken the initiative to do anything, and that is why we are here today. While we're waiting for the government, we in the Left have launched our own birth play. In the left's birth play, we're gonna come up with seven concrete indications of how we can lift this area all around. Our goal is to ensure a good and safe experience before, during and after birth. For the sake of speaking time, I will not go through our entire proposal, but there are elements I would like to highlight. In the Left we believe that the same responsible midwife should be held throughout the process in order to create a better connection both before, during and after birth. We also believe that both mother and father should be offered birth screening in relation to postpartum reactions. Today, all mothers are offered that screening, but we do know that postpartum reactions can also affect the partner, and we must not neglect that. I would recommend looking to Odense, where we have successfully introduced offers of screening for both parents, and this has enabled us to spot an incipient birth depression even before a child has come into the world, and it is so effort that has given rise to paws. In the Left, we believe that first-time feeding should be guaranteed the right to stay for two days in a hospital or a maternity hotel after birth. The firstborn deserves special security, and they should not fear being sent home a few hours after birth. In fact, it should not be necessary to legislate on it at all, but when you look at these horrible examples, for example. in the Capital Region, we need to respond to that and we need to talk about guaranteeing the birthing rights and guarantees in this area. We also believe that increased security must be combined with more freedom for the born. We will strengthen free choice and give the individual family the freedom to choose. It's about putting the birthers in the center. The birth process must be built around the new family instead of allowing the born to adapt to the system. Because if the birthing couple feels best about a model other than that offered in the public sector, then they must have the free choice to make use of a private offer, for example. a private maternity clinic, of course, without undermining public food provision. Today we are discussing two different proposals in one. One is a suggestion from the SF to ensure a guarantee of 2 days' stay in a maternity ward or a patient hotel after the end of childbirth. The second is Enhedslisten's proposal to convene negotiations on birthrights. I will start with Enhedslisten's proposal. I can be very clear: we are in complete agreement. It is disgraceful that the government has not responded quickly enough to the quite obvious problems in the field of birth, which is why I also hope that today there is a majority in this Parliament for us to stand together to press the government to get negotiations started now. As to what the negotiations are actually going to lead to, we probably do not entirely agree with the Enhedslisten in everything, but before we get there at all, it requires the government to realise that we are going to get started now and to have negotiations called for. SF proposes to introduce by law a guarantee of 2 days' stay in a maternity ward or a patient hotel for all born after the end of childbirth. The proposal is sympathetic and we in the Left, as the SF also knows, are very much in agreement. But politics is also a matter of prioritising. In the Left, therefore, we believe that this guarantee should first of all apply to the first-born. This is where the need is greatest, and so we also want to give priority to other measures that can strengthen the birth area. Finally, I would just like to reiterate my thanks to the two parties for putting this on the agenda. I also expect the government to listen to the majority of the Folketing here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160806	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First it's Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160811	Thank you for that and also thank you for your support for the area, which I also think is important. But just so I understand it too: do I understand that what the Left is saying is that it is only the first-born who should have the right to stay in the hospital for a two-day maternity leave, that is to say it is only for the first-born, and that the Left cannot vote in favour of the proposal because it gives the right to remain in the hospital until they think they are ready to go home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160844	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160845	Thanks to the SF for the question. Yes, in our proposal, we have proposed that the first-born should be entitled to two days in the hospital's maternity ward afterwards, and for multiple-bodied there must therefore be 24 hours. In reality, however, I would also like to say, and I think I also agree with the SF, that we should not be supposed to be sitting on a date or a time or a number of days. In fact, it should be the case that there was room and space for one to see the individual giving birth. There may be someone who can go home after a few hours • ah, a few hours is probably exaggerated or after half a day, and then there may be someone who needs to lie there 4 days. In fact, this should be the case, as I said in my speech, that we should not legislate on this at all. But we have chosen to put it in our play because we want some kind of warranty or security or right... call it what you want to do so that the birthers cannot be thrown out a few hours after birth, because we cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160940	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416160942	But in principle, it can still mean that, as a second-time bearer, you are thrown out a few hours after birth, if it is the case that we do not together make a bottom that says that there must be some limit to when you can throw people out. And I would really like to agree with the rapporteur when she thinks she is ready, whether it is 4 days or 1 day or 2 hours after birth. But this is just an expression of being a bottom, and so it should only apply to first-time feeding if you are to follow the proposals of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161019	No, we have actually also put a bottom in our proposal for multiple-bodied. We have actually said it's 24 hours, and it has to be seen in relation to the fact that we have an arsenal of things in our play and that we really want to hit this area before, during and after birth. That is why there is also a priority. We have then chosen to say that it is 2 days for first-time feeding, and that it must be 1 day for multi-time feeding. So I agree with the rapporteur that it is a bottom, because in reality it should not be the case that we needed to put on a number of days as a guarantee against some savings and against some hospital discharge a few hours after birth, should it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161054	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161057	Thank you. And thanks for the support, I'm really, really happy about that. That means, well, let's see how it goes, but that could mean that we can go a little further. Moreover, I agree with much of what the rapporteur says, and I believe that we, the Enhedslisten and the Left, can go a long way together in this area, and we must at last remember and rejoice in this once and for all. However, one of the proposals that the Left has included in its proposal, and which the rapporteur also mentions here, is this so-called free choice. The rapporteur says that one should have the right to choose a private offer instead of a public offer, and I think that it was said almost literally: without undermining the public offer. And that is probably going to be a little difficult, because when we look at what the problems really are today in the public sector, apart from the fact that there are a lot of people fleeing because working conditions are too bad, we see that it is not actually because there have been fewer midwives per year. birth, but because many of the births have become much more complicated, and the fallout will be that the private offers will take the easy births, the uncomplicated, those without diabetes, those without obesity, those without postpartum depression and mental problems, and leave the rest to the public and thus hollow out the public. Or, what does the Left say about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161222	First of all, I should like to comment on the first point made by the rapporteur, and to say that I also believe that we can come very far together, and that is of course interesting in itself. In relation to the matter of free choice: yes, it is important for the Left that there is freedom of choice. Now I have visited the private maternity clinic in Roskilde, Roskilde Federal Clinic, and I just have to say that I wanted to have a third child on the spot, and now Mrs. Pernille Skipper is pregnant herself, so maybe she should also drive by and see it. It actually cooperates with the Region of Zealand, I would also like to say, so it is an opportunity to do so. We in the Left have also said that we would also like to give priority to some extra funds for this area, and we have also said that we should not and will not be helping to undermine the public. Now I am not so much in the detail of tariffs and so on, but I know so much that there is something called DRG tariffs, and that is one of the things we need to have looked at so that we do not move and hollow out, because it is clear that we cannot be involved in that. But we are the guarantor of free choice. I would also just like to say that I have also met a great many women in these months, when I have worked intensively with the birth area, and they have just talked about this opportunity for free choice, because a maternity clinic is often a middle point between giving birth at home and giving birth at a hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161327	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161328	It is quite true that there is a difference between a maternity clinic and a hospital, and fortunately the offer of maternity clinics is also followed in the public sector in very many regions. Now the rapporteur himself mentions my own condition and I can say with certainty that this is also an offer in the public sector in the Capital Region. So it is not necessarily the desire to give birth in a clinic that is crucial here, it is that the Left wants to have the opportunity to take the money that would otherwise go to the public, into the private sector, which does not have an obligation to take the complicated births. Is it not true that in the motion by the Left there is also a right for private clinics to reject complicated or potentially complicated births?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161417	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161418	In relation to complicated births: Now I have it myself that for the first time I would also prefer to be in a hospital where there is an entire arsenal of pediatricians etc. and where you can subsequently go to a neonatal ward with the child. But, frankly, we do want to spread free elections, and that is a good thing. Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself mentions the fact that there are also public food clinics, but does this mean that there must be no private ones? Does this mean that if I am to have my third child, I do not have the opportunity to use the private maternity clinics? Honestly, I don't think it should be. I think we should spread the free choice, and then we have said it very explicitly in our proposal: we will not be helping to undermine public food provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161500	The next question is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161503	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think there were a lot of good behaviors in what I heard from up there. I fully agree with the • which I also hear the rapporteur say "individual approach to the individual giving birth and the individual family'. Let us deal with any problems they may have. Some need to stay long, some need to stay short. This leads to my perhaps not so surprising question to this particular one with one day for several feedings, as I heard the rapporteur of the Left say, and two days for first feeding. But I also heard the rapporteur say that this should not be the case at all. The problem is actually different. So my question is quite simple: if the problem is something else and I completely agree with that, isn't that what we should be dealing with? For what about those who need to stay three days? Do we risk, as the Minister said, that we are actually going to give a lot to those who do not need it, those who are resourceful, who can also ask for it, thereby missing those who actually have the need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161551	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161554	Thank you, and thank you to Enhedslisten, sorry, Radical for the question. My approach to that is no, now I have simply forgotten what he asked. I got so confused that I came to say Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161615	Can we repeat the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161620	I'm sorry if it was the hairstyle that confused. It was about that with the right to 1 day for several feeding and 2 days for first feeding. And the rapporteur then says that this is actually not the problem and that we should tackle what is the real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161632	Thank you. Our proposals were also very much about the whole of the preparatory area, because I really think that this is where we really need to take action. How do we prepare the giving birth as best we can? And then I would like to say that there is also that approach to it I know from myself that we also really want to go home after birth. So we've set it as 2 days for the first day and 1 day for the second time. It is, in fact, only to have a safeguard against these hopeless initiatives that have been in some regions where they have tried to throw the birthing home after a few hours. It is simply on the basis of that thinking. Because in reality, I think that this whole free choice idea and so much preparatory, that is, prenatal preparation, is important. How do you prevent problems from occurring during the birth itself, and also when the couple or the woman comes home? That is really where we really have to take action, and it is in fact where we can really move something. So this is gonna be a protection against the hopeless priorities that are out there in some regions. But the second is what becomes interesting, and that is what can push something on it. That is also where we can find some money in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161734	A follow-up question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161736	Thank you. The rapporteur actually points out what the problem is. The problem is that some people are being thrown home too quickly, and that is because there is a lack of resources, there is a lack of staff, there is a lack of space and time in the maternity wards. I guess that's the problem, so I guess that's what we need to make sure. The aim must surely be to achieve this, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's view that those who have the need to stay 1, 2, 3, 4 days or longer on maternity leave should, of course, have the offer, while those who do not need it, of course, have to go home and then have help at home. This thing about making a guarantee that hits a little off in my optics sounds like a patch solution to a real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161816	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161818	I agree with the rapporteur from the Radicals so far that in reality this should not be what was meant to be. And compared to what midwives have to do and how busy they are in the workplace, in the maternity halls, that is what we really want to look at. That is one of our proposals. It also concerns the whole organisation of it, because we think we can move on to some things there too. Then we also have to go in and look at what a midwife is doing today. Now I have talked to a number of them, and some of them mention that they, for example. must also clean a living room after a birth. I guess a sosu helper or a sosu assistant could do that, too. So there are also some options for looking into this alternatively, and that's what we really want in the Left. That is also why our proposal is such an all-round one, that is to say, before, during and after birth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161900	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416161904	I'm getting more and more shocked. I thought the Left would vote in favour of these proposals. What I hear the rapporteur talking about is something mechanical. So, in the Danish People's Party together with the Left, we have made guarantees on treatment and investigation, etc., and then this is that when you are second-time-born, you do not get the same guarantee as a first-time-born. So there are some who have a worse birth the second time, and perhaps they also have a small one at home that they cannot manage to get home right away, and you know that what you say is often a guarantee is what they are lying there. So when you say to a second-time-born or third-time-bodied person that he has a guarantee of one day, he goes home after one day, even though he may need more things. At the same time, I am also shocked that it is simply said that a sosu should be called a social and health assistant! So, isn't it kind of mechanical with these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162016	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162018	I very much regret that, Liselott Blixt. I said wrong. My mother is a sosu assistant herself, so there is by no means any degradation in it, on the contrary. I think it is a very, very commendable subject that we are talking about. In relation to the two motions for resolutions, we have actually said that we are voting in favour of the Enhedslisten, and I have said to the SF, even before I went to the Chamber here today, that I think we should try to land a report because far along the way we are precisely in agreement, and I sincerely believe that it is with the prevention that we can really do. I have actually listened quite a lot to professionals, and there are some of them who also say that it is not therefore a question of whether they should be there for one or two days or something, and that this should not be what we promised. Many of the professionals I have spoken to, and I do not know where DF is in the rationale, say precisely that it is on the prevention part that we can really change some things. And I also have to say that if you get proper preparation into parenthood, research shows that you also have better knowledge of the birth itself, get through it better and get out faster and better on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162126	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162128	Well, I agree that prevention is good, but it is not prevention when we talk about second-, third- and fourth-time parents who may have some other reasons why they need those hours. There are quite other things that play a part, and that's why I think it's mechanical when you only look at what's coming out, what's birth, and what we can register check out, check out instead of looking at the whole person who's going home, maybe to a house that's flowing, and with kids who scream or whatever else might be affecting the psyche. So that's the whole person, and that's the whole family we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162204	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162205	I do not think I have said anything else about that either in my speech or in my speech here today. On the contrary, I think that we are focusing on the family all around. We have even mentioned something about a screening of both the mother and the danger of birth reactions afterwards and already during pregnancy as well. So I really think we have quite a lot of focus on the family as a whole, and I sincerely believe that it would be interesting to look at how much we could actually do better with regard to prevention and parental preparation, which would just make these parents also have the desire and profits and enough knowledge of it to go home afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162244	Thank you. The next brief remark comes from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162248	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur recognise that working conditions, wage levels are of great importance for the fact that we are now lacking in maternity workers in this process before, during and after birth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162306	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162308	Now I am a family and well-being rapporteur, and I am also a substitute for myself as social and health rapporteur, child and education rapporteur and rapporteur for foreigners, but after all I am not an employment rapporteur. In fact, I think that a great many of our proposals should help to raise the area as a whole, so that the conditions to which these midwives are exposed must be improved, and we fully agree with them. However, in relation to standing here and discussing wages, the questioner as well as I, it is not something that we can stand and discuss here, because it is in some collective bargaining somewhere else. And I'm not even an employment rapporteur, even when I'm a substitute. So you have to ask the employment rapporteur about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162348	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur on the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162431	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking the two parties that have tabled these motions for resolutions, and I would like to say that when we see good proposals, we will of course vote in favour, because this is something that is important. I know that there have been problems over the last few years, and that is also why the Danish People's Party, during the previous government, was given money for the area, but it has not been enough, and when we read in the newspapers that midwives cry and give birth to trauma, we are reacting, and therefore there has been a really big debate. The problem has been mainly in the capital, and we may wonder. As the health rapporteur, I have been standing on this platform and got worked up by Social Democratic health rapporteurs for a lot of years for why we did nothing and why we didn't follow the health services' recommendations and so on, and there we also agreed that if you just replaced it here, we would have had a very good maternity leave for everyone, because there is nothing with days and hours, or whatever it is, but that you are not sent home until you are safe, as you also have to be before. Then you can look at me and think, it's been years since she's had kids. Yes, but fortunately I have two children, and one has given me two grandchildren of two and four, and my daughter-in-law is pregnant, so the third is on his way. I'm very close to it, so I know what's happening, and there's a lot to criticise. I am lucky enough to live in the Region of Zealand, and so do my children, so it is Region of Zealand's hospitals that they frequent and they have chosen the public and have been extremely satisfied. I would say that my daughter was allowed to sleep in the maternity room because there was nowhere else to sleep, so they went home the next morning. I think they were there eight hours, came home, and it went fantastic. And the second time they drove in, gave birth, and returned home. So it's not at all because you have to have the problem is that if you start saying that now is what we're going for, or that we now have some target numbers, that's just what's going to happen. I am even afraid to say two days, but two days is better than what is today when you say four hours. That is why I support the proposal, because it is important to be safe. And there are many reasons for this and, as I also said to the rapporteur of the Left, it is perhaps the second or third birth that is the worst. We don't know what complications are coming. There's a very, very big difference between births. It may be that some are younger, but you shouldn't be. You also get a lot of pressure on something, for example. was my daughter 21 years old, and then she was told she was young, and then she had to get under this with social studies, and I don't know what, but she wasn't socially exposed or anything else. You have to be careful about splitting everyone up in boxes or thinking that everyone would go to parentbirth preparation, because there may be some men who don't want to go there. I think we should look much wider, because there is a need for something that is much more far-reaching, also because the young people are today sitting much more on social media, and I know that birth preparation for them actually takes place many times in facebook groups, where they are with others who are going to give birth around the same time they give each other advice and something like that. I have actually talked about this with the midwife association, and I believe that it is needed, because that is where the young people are and they are opting out of the preparation for birth that is today, because it is something cold and mechanical, and that is what I am afraid of, i.e. when the Left tells about their proposals, where they are to be divided into certain groups, etc. We need to see that we are different, that we grow up in different ways, and how our network around us is. My daughter could come home because I was there and could tell her what to do, and then she just had to follow up, and she also nursed for 21⁄2 years, because it's really healthy. But that is the difference, and we will have to bring it in when we have a family where a new child comes in. We need to look at the social conditions, the network, where they live, what kind of home they are going home to, whether they are going home to a home that is not being cleaned or where there are all sorts of other things in the way, because you can go down mentally, and we see a lot of depressions. So I think we need to make an overall effort, and that is why I would like us to go in and negotiate it so that it didn't just become boom, boom, boom, and then we think it's good about it. That is not the way it should be, because many other efforts need to be made, there must be options, and we must look at individual families in a different way than we do today. My time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416162944	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163012	Thank you to the President and many thanks to the rapporteurs of the Enhedslisten and the SF for putting a very important agenda on the programme. After all, none of us is affected by the many stories that have recently been made and which again bear witness to a heavy pressure on the food sector. It is hard to read about all the experiences that some mothers are unfortunately experiencing, and we cannot be aware that our staff on maternity leave must run all too quickly. It is unfair to the birthers and their partners, whom we must ensure a safe and good start to life as a family, and it is unfair to our health care professionals, whom we must ensure proper working conditions. We all take that seriously in this Chamber, I can hear, and that is wonderful. This is good for the forthcoming negotiations. And I take this personally very seriously, both as rapporteur for the Radical Left and as a father who has experienced it from within and is about to go to it for the fourth time, so that it is not a lie. There are major challenges to be addressed. For several reasons, I know best about the Capital Region, which unfortunately also contains many of the problems described in the media. Here in the Capital Region of Denmark, where I am also sitting, we have just decided to lift the area. And I wonder whether it will also be a part of the forthcoming budget negotiations, both in this region and in other regions. The concrete proposals that we are going to deal with in this Chamber today are about two things. The first proposal, tabled by Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF, will require the government to submit a draft law requiring at least two days' stay for all birthers and their partners. That sounds sympathetic, and I share the intention, but we will not be in the Radical Left to support it. Such a proposal will take up a great deal of resources and, apart from it is not financed in the proposal itself, I am not convinced, as I have mentioned in my previous questions, that it is the most optimal use of resources. Precisely because the area is as pressured as it is, it is important in my view that we do exactly the right thing. I have also noted that this is not a desire that enjoys broad support in the professional environments, precisely because it is not the best use of resources. We must, of course, ensure that the families who need it can stay in the hospital for one or more days as necessary. It is just in my optics important that we ensure a good and safe start for all families, but it should take into account the individual needs of the individual family. The second proposal by Mrs Pernille Skipper requires the government to call for negotiations on the food sector. Negotiations are obviously necessary. We in the Radical Left have presented our plans for what we think needs to be done in the field of food, and there are a great many things that need to be looked at. It starts already at the first midwife's interview, where there should be longer time, so that you can plan the further course based on the individual family and their needs. Proper preparation for birth must be ensured so that everyone gets a safe and good start to the new life as a family. Enough personnel must be provided in the maternity wards, and we must provide a calm and secure environment around the birth itself, which takes account of the individual family. Precisely because there are so many aspects, it is absolutely crucial that it is done thoroughly and with a view to the overall health care system, because there are a great many areas that are all pressing. That is why I think it is wise to wait for the recommendations that the Danish Health Authority is currently working on so that we can really address the problem, find the right solutions and secure the necessary funding. And then, in principle, I believe that it should be included in the overall negotiations on the health reform, which I have fortunately heard both the Prime Minister and today the Minister of Health promise that we were called this year. Those were the words from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163407	Thank you to the rapporteur. This gave rise to a few brief comments. It's only from Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163411	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now the rapporteur says, of course, that if you need it, you have to have the opportunity to stay in the maternity ward. Now there is no suggestion in the proposal here that we in the SF imagine that we should tie all new parents to a maternity leave for two days, on the contrary. But it is an attempt to keep the bottom beneath the food area. So if you really need the security of being able to be on maternity leave after a birth, do Radicals think that it can only be a right that you must have fulfilled if it is the case that we find money for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163459	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163501	Thank you. Of course we have to find money for it. I fully agree with the problem, as the rapporteur points out: there are mothers who are being sent all too quickly home. I'm just worried that the model being laid out here isn't the right one. We heard the Minister say earlier, and I fully agree that it is often those who are most resourceful who claim what they are entitled to, and my concern will be that we are going to use resources at a disadvantage. I would rather that health care workers on maternity leave, in conversation with the family, of course, provide what is needed. That is what we must ensure. We all agree on the problem. There are simply not enough resources. There's not enough time. There's not enough staff. I would rather ensure this so that we can ensure that those who need to stay can stay as long as they need it, and the others can come home and get help at home if that is what they need. I think that is a much better use of resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163548	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163550	If you are weak, you may be allowed to be searched for this, and if not... I simply think it is the cheapest excuse, I have ever heard: if you give a right to be in a maternity ward after a birth, it is only the strongest who will take advantage of it, and not those who might actually have the need for it. Well, I don't believe that there's one person who stays in such a barroom ward for a second more than you need; you want to go home with that little new child. But if there isn't an offer, you're gonna let down those who need it, aren't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163627	I am sorry if I did not make myself quite clear. What the rapporteur said here was certainly not my intention. I do not think it is that simple, and I did not mean to say that I only listen to what many of those who are actually out there say: that this is not the right way to solve the problem in their optics. After all, we fully agree on the problem that there are some who need to be there for longer and who are being sent home too quickly. We need to solve that. I don't think this is the right way to do it, and I'm afraid we're gonna be using the resources wrong in terms of how we could lift it together in the food sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163700	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163703	I agree with the SF's rapporteur that there is something a little mysterious about it, that there is such an assumption that you stay in the hospital because it is awesome. I know it's called a maternity hotel, but it's not a spa stay just to say so. Mr. Stinus Lindgreen also with number four child on the way, that is, it is not because you are hanging with champagne and bubbles; it is not a hotel. So people don't want to go home? That's one. The second is that Mr. Stinus Lindgreen himself says that you should start by making the first midwife's conversation longer. There's got to be better time. I just don't understand. What if you don't need a long time? Isn't that wrong, sir? Stinus Lindgreen that the Radical Left has a view that that time is too short? Well, it seems a little selective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163800	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163801	Thank you. First of all, no, I do not think that many people want to stay in the hospital longer than the maximum necessary. I am just listening to the concern in the professional environments where they say that this is what they are worried about because it will draw resources in the wrong direction. We should rather ensure that there is no need at all, as previous rapporteurs have also said, to make these rigid rules on how long they must be there. My concern could also be, in relation to if you need to be there for 3 or 4 days and you have a claim of 2 days. How do we solve this? I would rather see a much more flexible, much more individual approach to it. On the second question about the first midwife's interview, I would say that it is true that not everyone, especially not multiple-bodied, needs one hour. The point on our part is to make sure that we do something about the conversation, which today is only 20 minutes and has been the last 10-15-20 years. If you spend more time, especially with the firstborn, to find out what kind of family you have and whether there are special needs, you can save time and resources in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163853	But that is exactly what is the argument for all the other rights that we are talking about, that is, a bottom, a minimum, to ensure that if the need is there for six times the birth preparation in small teams, then one must have the opportunity to do so. You don't have to; it's not coercion. If you need 2 days or more in the hospital, you should be given the opportunity to do so. It's not coercion. And if you need more than 20 minutes for the first one of our conversation, the time must be set aside for it. But with Mr. Stinus Lindgreen's argument would mean, of course, that if you set aside one hour for all midwives' conversations, you would risk wasting some time and with Mr. Lindgreen. Stinus Lindgreen's own words to use the resources crookedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416163937	Yes, the point is that when I talk to midwives out there and look at how they spend their time today, there are so many areas that take up much more. We have many more complicated births, many more, there are runners and diabetics, and we can scan much more so that they use the resources there, and all sorts of things. There is a desire to spend time mapping from the start what kind of family it is and what kind of pregnancy you are dealing with. And it is their assessment that it would save time in the long term to spend time where it is needed, and less where there is less need for it. A person like me doesn't need the same time for midwife conversations in connection with a pregnancy the fourth time that first-born has. That is exactly the flexibility that I would like us to get into our system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416164019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Can I persuade Mr. Simpson? Stinus Lindgreen to get the platform ready? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416164048	Thank you for that, President. Thanks also to both Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF and Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten for lighting a very important topic, namely to ensure good delivery courses for families. Sadly, for many, giving birth can be an insecure experience. The maternity wards are under pressure, and many couples today feel that they are being rushed through. It is far from the midwife's fault. They already run very fast and do everything in their power to make it a really good experience to become a parent. But we must note that there are not enough midwives. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party have also proposed that the midwives should have some more colleagues. Exactly what we're going to do is add 244 midwives to the country's maternity wards. According to the Midwives' Association, the proposal will provide midwives with enough to ensure good quality at births, and good quality there must be safety back, and working conditions in the maternity wards must be better. There must be safety both before birth, during birth and after birth. And after birth, the municipal health care providers come into the picture as well. We also think it is a good idea to guarantee first-time birthrights for a slightly longer stay in the maternity wards if needed. The newly baked family should not be worried about being sent home very soon after birth. But we do not think it is appropriate to offer everyone the opportunity to give birth simply because it will cause more problems than it solves as long as there is not enough capacity. Therefore, for multiple births, it must be a medical assessment that is the basis for the appropriate return. We cannot therefore support the SF's proposal, but we would like to support the call from the Enhedslisten to the government to convene negotiations. I heard the Minister sign for that too, and that is very good. As in other areas too, it must be before the health agreement, because I think that there are many things we can do right now and are pressing for; this is certainly what this subject is doing, so let us get on with it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416164323	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416164349	Thank you. I myself have had the pleasure of getting acquainted with a birthday hall twice and they have actually for our part, I must say, been two really, really good experiences and on this occasion I have to say: Hello Agnes and hello Anna, daddy will be home soon. When you dive a little into the numbers, you can see from the study you did in 2018, I think that was where they checked up to 7,400, it was shown that 87 per cent. of the giving birth were actually satisfied with the course of birth they had been through. I also think it's worth taking part in the conversation we have. And we have no opinion that there is nothing wrong; we do not have a position that nothing should be changed, but I also think it is important to say that when a very large number of people were examined, a great many of them were actually satisfied with their overall course. Then there are two proposals here. Firstly, one of the Enhedslisten, which will convene some negotiations. Well, of course, we in the New Citizen are always in favour of that, so we can support that. We think it is such a collegiate thing... when people want to call for negotiations, we always support it in principle, and we gladly come to them. Then there is the SF's proposal, which will cost, as the Minister says, about 100 million. kr. That is not something that frightens us, I would say 100 million. kr. Because it is the case that the regional budget actually spends 2.6 billion. kr. in what is called regional development, and come on, where a lot of money is wasted and wasted there with a lot of money for all sorts of fun projects. So we would like to see people, for example. Just from next year said that that amount could be 2.5 billion. kr. kr. Over there. In other words, funding would not be a problem. Then it is more a question of whether it is the right and the right way to solve it. And I'd like to get some figures on that before I get convinced. The question is whether this is a general problem or whether it is more regional. So, when you hear Region Sjælland, Slagelse Hospital is good with; Herlev Hospital has huge problems. We hear that some places are doing great. What is it that the regions and the hospitals that have these major problems do wrong professionally and in the way they organise their work? Have they organized it differently? Do they have a different structure? Is there another model for how the sosu assistants work in those departments, compared to how it is in other departments? I think there are a large number of elements that need to be examined in order to say that this is the right thing to do. That's it. Where are the problems? What's in it? Is it because there are geographical disparities in relation to the number of additional studies that have to be carried out, for example? Capital Region versus other parts of the country and that these midwives are therefore more pressured there and have more tasks than they would otherwise have. So there are a large number of areas that we would like to look at in relation to what makes it very, very big difference, for example. such things as that they have vacant posts in some places but lack applicants in some other places. There may be something in relation to management; there may be a lot of things there that we would like to have examined before we say that we will support exactly that model. But we believe that funding can easily be found. And we are very, very much in agreement with the Radicals that it should not be so that people, if they need to be there, cannot be there because of anything structural in relation to resources. So we're open to that. It has to be the words from here. So good weekend for all of you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416164748	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416164808	I think we all know that the first 1,000 days of a child's life are crucial to the child's future life. And the children are our future, and it is absolutely crucial for the family's well-being and for the parents' ability to be good parents that the child gets a good start and the family gets a good start. But it doesn't look like that right now. We have a bias so that those parents who need more help than they can get can pay for help. You can, for example. get 2 hours of nursing advice for 2,500 DKK. Then you can get a little rusty and get the help that you don't get from the public. It is important to look at birth preparations, at birth, at health care visits afterwards, at nursing counselling and at the things that can give a good start to the child's life. There is a greater dissatisfaction with the birth preparations, we can hear from the Midwives Association. There are birth traumas from their births, we hear from several 100 births in the Capital Region, because they are among other things. are moved from one place of birth to another during birth. And this has happened in the last few years. Children are exposed to unnecessary danger during birth, we can also see from DR and other media. There must be better and more equal treatment in the country. It should not be the postal numbers that determine whether you get a good start to life or not. A reaction to that may be that we see a lot of homebirths. There has been a doubling of home births from 2012 to 2016 so at that time was 3%. homebirths. It may be a really nice thing, but if you do it because you're insecure about entering the public system and entering the hospitals, it's a really bad background. It is actually the case that only half as many people experience complications when they have homebirth, and this is justified by the fact that there is more peace and security, and that is what we also need to get in our delivery rooms. When we talk about improving the conditions and experiences of the birther, we need to look at the conditions and experiences of the staff in the hospitals. We must have better conditions for birth, and that must be one of them. is ensured by better conditions for midwives and other professional groups. We need employees who take care of the family during their pregnancy and childbirth. We need to look at structures and not just allow the two days on maternity leave. It is good that the SF has made an estimate of what it will cost to accommodate a family on a maternity leave section for two days, but this is a structural problem which has deep roots in health savings, impossible attempts at efficiency and unworthy pay and working conditions for employees in the sector. For many years, the staff have been calling out to the hospitals. For some time now, we have seen many new movements sprouting in the health sector in relation to the women's dominated professions. There is a growing movement of midwives who say that enough is enough, and we must take them seriously. A third of the midwives have signed an open letter to the President of the Capital Region, demanding proper working conditions and writing: "You are strangling both us, the women in our care and the subject we are passionate about. ▪ Over 1,000 midwives and students refuse to sign new employment contracts in the public sector because they experience unfair working conditions and ridiculously low wages. Midwives break down at work and go down with stress, and two thirds have actually considered quitting their job in the maternity ward. Yeah, even a blind man can see something's wrong. In the Greens, therefore, we support the proposal to call for negotiations on the rights of fooders, where we can find ambitious solutions to improve the conditions for food and improve the conditions for employees in the sector. We see the situation on maternity leave as a structural problem that cannot and must not be solved with up-to-date snapshot solutions and legislation that gives two days the right to be on maternity leave. Let us bring with us the professional organisations and the experience from the floor, and we can start by looking at the proposal of the midwife association. In the negotiations, we will press for good frameworks and opportunities for flexibility locally and regionally and leave the specific professional assessments up to the skilled staff with expertise and experience in the field. We support both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416165307	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. There aren't any more napkins either, but there'll be some here, and we'll probably do it all together. We've got plenty of napkins. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers of B 159 Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416165338	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, thank you for your comments. Thank you for holding out to negotiate here at the end of a Friday afternoon. I should also like to thank you for your comments on the proposal for two days' maternity leave for the child. The SF has tabled the motion for a resolution because it is clear that action is needed in the field of birth. When a new one comes into the world, it's one of life's greatest miracles. As a new parent, you can feel swinging ground. How does the little child feel? Why is it crying? Is that the right thing to do? Am I a good enough parent now? I think everyone who's had kids knows those thoughts. Unfortunately, we have seen problems in the field of birth for a long time. All the parties in here know that. The Minister knows that too, because we, Enhedslisten and SF, had him in consultation only a few weeks ago on the birth area. When Marie gave birth to her son Emil, she was sent home in only 4 hours. That's probably just what you have to do, she thought. But she just hadn't made the breast-feeding work, and she ended up visiting the Rigshospitalet every other day for the following 2 weeks. And because she couldn't make breast-feeding work, she felt stressed both over breast-feeding, but also about whether she was good enough. Marie was alone in getting breast - feeding, but she is far from alone in the problem. Since 2018, it has been known that one in three women felt poorly prepared for breast-feeding, and one in four did not get the help for breast-feeding they needed in the hospital. Those problems do not just affect those who are born. Nor do they only affect the partners to the birthers. They also hit the midwives. That insecurity and the many questions must be put to an end. Add several reports from midwives and maternity staff who do not feel that they can do their job properly because of an enormous bustle. A good course of birth gives peace of mind, security of mind and professional pride, not least. Because they're not just saying that. No, the country's largest maternity ward at Hvidovre Hospital was in 2020 in red or yellow triangle for half the time; i.e. only green triangle, where there is quiet for work, in 50 percent. of the time. The chief midwife estimates that, in order to have a good working environment, you should be in the green zone between 90 and 95 per cent. of the time. It's still a difference that can be felt and felt. Stress and busyness have just become part of the norm. I think it is unforgivable that giving birth leaves the maternity ward a few hours after they have given birth, when they really need calm and security to enjoy the new little miracle. It is unforgivable that the midwives leave the maternity wards because they need calm and security, but they cannot have it. I think it is shameful for our society that both the birthers and the staff leave the maternity wards with traumatic experiences. Nobody wins, everyone loses on it. The support parties and the government agree that Denmark should be the world's best country to be a child in. The prime minister of the country even wants to be the prime minister of the children. That is why I am extremely disappointed that the government and the Social Democrats are not just voting for this proposal. SF's proposal to give birth to a two-day stay in the maternity ward is an important proposal if we are to solve the problem of the lack of safety in maternity wards. Then I must remind you that the Social Democratic Party went to elections for 2 days at a patient hotel for birth in 2019. We should not just make sure that Denmark is the world's best country to be a child in. We must also be the world's best country to come to the world in. We need to put a bottom below the birth area and give a set of minimum rights so that all parties are taken seriously and so that all children can have a safe start on life, whether they are born in Aalborg or in Gentofte. I note, however, that the Minister says that it will be a priority for the government in future health cares, and that is, after all, positive. I would like to express my thanks to the Danish People's Party and to the Enhedslisten and to Mrs Susanne Zimmer and also to the New Citizens to indicate that there may also be room to vote in favour of the proposal here. I think it is important once and for all to put an end to the problem of the absence of maternity leave for the child. I am disappointed that so many parties have this in their election programme and yet choose to say that they do not vote in favour of the proposal to ensure the necessary maternity leave for women after the end of birth. It's so easy to think, but now we actually have the opportunity to do something. And a prerequisite for us to do what we have to do is that we here in the Folketing say to each other: Now it is now, friends, now we do it. For there is a need for us to create once and for all the security for the women they need. That's why I was hoping for support for the proposal today. I understand that there isn't. Then we shall see how far we can go in a committee procedure. However, I would like to thank you all for your consideration of the proposal today, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416165932	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers of B 242, and this is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416165955	Thank you very much for a very important debate, which fortunately one can say has not only been in this Chamber, but is one of those who has been very many places in Danish society, and which we must probably all be in here too, that at least this time we can't take credit for starting. Because there are a lot of women, their partners, their families, midwives, sosu assistants who are working in the field, who have started this debate and who keep sticking to the fire and who have forced us all to come up with various initiatives in this area, and it is really just great to see democracy in full bloom and that we are also influential in here. I think that's the first good thing. One of the first things that you learn or that I at least learned when you're elected in parliament is to count to 90. I was able to do that before, but I was particularly good at it, and I think that we are beginning to approach at least one resolution here, and that does not happen very often. But it is also very good because it shows that we have a desire to do something in this area and that there is a broad majority in favour of it, and also a common desire to pressure the Minister for Health to perhaps do it a little faster than he otherwise wanted. One of the other things that you learn in the Danish Parliament or that I learned at least is to check the history. For there is often another from the Enhedslisten who has said something wise before you, and I have also checked it this time, and the first, which I found was from 2004, when the Enhedslisten's then Parliamentary Group first proposed the introduction of some rights for birthers and their partners, and then it was again in the Assembly Hall in 2007, where it was Mrs Line Barfod, the then Health Rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. It is exactly 14 years and 5 days since they had that debate and where Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, the then Health Minister from the Left, said that it was an overly rich requirement to make that one could have the same midwife in a course and that there was no need for further regulation, other than that one could follow the recommendations of the Danish Health Service, and that the new regions should make sure that everything was fixed. Then it is just very good that, despite the rotation system, we have some persistence in the Enhedslisten, and Stine Brix subsequently took over and also talked about birthrights, among other things. in 2016, and Mr. Peder Hvelplund before me, and now we are here again, and now we are up to 90 seats. So there's something here with persistence that I actually think we can go with us, and it's a little joke. However, our motion for a resolution quite simply states that we must sit down for a negotiating table, that we must create rights and that we must ensure better working conditions, and then we can agree or disagree on exactly how this should be done. But what we in the Enhedslist say is the same thing, as many others from both sides of the House have also said today, namely that it is both before, during and after, and I think it is really important that we talk about a minimum of two days' maternity leave in a maternity section, if you like, but also a right to maternity preparation in small teams, coherent and individual courses, that you have the opportunity to have interviews with a nurse-trained municipal health care professional, also before birth, that continuity with a well-known midwife is ensured, that all five regions also have targeted efforts for particularly vulnerable and screenings, that after birth you have access to nursing advice in public and 24-hours, with video consultation, so you can call when things are difficult, and that there is also help for families that are mentally affected by both pregnancy and childbirth. These are just some of the things that it is important for us to address, and that is also for me to see one of the reasons why I am very concerned about waiting until we have a big overall health agreement, because this is not a small task that we are going to have to deal with gradually. We must both ensure that these do not become bureaucratic rules and that minimum standards do not become maximum standards, and that we do, for example, achieve maximum standards. says 2 days stay at a maternity hotel, so remember to write or similar, because it may also be that there are some who want to have follow-up conversations at home etc. So I am worried about putting it into a big health deal. Nor can I see what it is in the new review and recommendations of the Danish Health Authority that will make us have to wait. However, I would like to give the Minister one thing which is really important, as the Minister said in his speech, namely that the funding is necessary. Because we have seen far too many times, not in the food sector, because apparently the regions had to fix it, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen at the time thought that in other areas where we have created some sort of minimum rights in health care, that, if you do not finance it, it will suck resources and hollow out other areas. And that's one of the reasons why the elderly medical patients are some of the worst in the Danish health service... no one ever made a package for them... and that's also one of the reasons why it's bad in the field of birth. Because you suck resources out of one area and give them to another. That is why money must come with it, and I will admit it to the Minister. We can't be aware to deliver on this without delivering the crowns and ears and the priorities that need to be given. When I think this is so important an area, it is also because it is completely basic welfare, and in some of the many debates that have been about it, I argued that there is now a very great inequality in the field of birth, and that a great many of those who have money for it can pay for baby-preparation in small teams and in large numbers do so, or they can pay for being in a private maternity clinic or getting nursing advice, and there is nothing wrong with that. But it is just not something that everyone can afford, and that means that the cuts that we are facing are going to hit awry. In one of these debates where I objected, someone said to me: "Well, isn't it kind of like being on a spa? It is not a lie, and the argument was that it is something that some can afford and that others cannot afford. But in this there is also the assumption that having nursing advice or maternity preparation in small teams or perhaps just a midwife present during the whole birth is luxury, that this is something that one cannot really afford to expect unless one has the money for it. And there it is really important to stick to what it is for a society we have here, that it is quite basic welfare that it is absolutely fundamental to ensure safe delivery before, during and after for everyone, no matter how large a wallet you have. And even if it's called a maternity hotel, it's not a hotel stay, and it's not a spa, but it's a safe start to life for some small people who, by the way, can pay off, because if we do it in a proper and good way, we know we're saving, I don't know how much money later. All of you must be allowed to hold a Friday bar or whatever awaits you, and the last thing I want to say is that I think it is so important that we talk about the working conditions of the midwives and also of the other employees of the swansgroom sorrel at all, and it is not just a question of securing more resources. Because right now we can see that, for example. in the Capital Region there are vacancies, there are posts that cannot be filled, and the review is so fast because the conditions are in a downward spiral. So we have to get down on our knees to the midwives in some way, for the experienced sosu assistants, social and health assistants, sorry, because Mrs Liselott Blixt was right earlier, who has been in the svangroomsorgen for a long time, who has been in the trade and ask them to come back. This means that we must not only provide rights and better standards, but we must also provide better security planning, proper schedules and a consideration that it is extremely difficult to make this work connected with family life, and then we must ensure proper pay, and I know that is not part of the proposal. But I just want to say that when 1,071 midwives and midwife students write that they will not be employed in the public sector until they receive equal pay, because they have been struggling for too many years with an unfair wage, where they are placed lower than in subjects with corresponding responsibilities and education, then we will have to listen to it, and it may be that we think there are problems in the swing groom song right now. But imagine what will happen if the thousand do not actually sign a new contract of employment. Then the maternity wards close, and then we haven't even seen what you might call problems yet. But thank you very much for your support and a very good debate. I am sure that we will continue to have it for a long time and that there are a lot of people who will keep us on fire, and that has been one of the better Friday afternoons in the Assembly Hall, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171008	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171011	It's Friday afternoon, but this is not a teasing question. But we can see that it's burning out there. There have been two budget negotiations and two financial laws. We're talking about 100 million. kr., and it's not a big amount of money when you're sitting with a finance bill. What's been pulling out? For it says in the understanding paper that Enhedslisten has a wish for it, and it has SF, and I also hear Radicals say that they want to. Why hasn't this already happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171046	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171048	Thank you for the question. Whether it was teasing or not, it is a perfectly reasonable question. First of all, I do not think that 100 million. kr. may do so because that is probably what we can estimate just being allowed to be hospitalized for a few days after birth in itself costs. But if we have to do it properly, it costs more than that. And why haven't we done this before? It's because we've done some other things. The honest and perfectly honest answer is, of course, that when you sit in a financial bill debate, priority must be given, and there have been a great many problems there we have ensured that there is money for 1,000 extra employees in the care of the elderly. We've secured more employed nurses. We have ensured minimum standards in today's institutions, where there have also been cuts and where there have also been too few staff resources and too poor conditions. So it is simply a question of there being much else that came before it. One can then agree or disagree whether that was the right order, but that is the honest answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171156	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171158	Yes, and that's where the chain jumps off for me, because when I look at the latest draft budget, it says that DR 200 million has been paid. kr. more a year. I simply cannot understand why we can give priority to this and say that it is more important to give more money to DR than there is to solve it here. When the rapporteur himself says that this is a priority, then we have given priority to DR and journalists out there who had 3.7 billion. kr. already, and given them over 200 million. kr. a year. Instead, you could have financed this and already set it in motion. That's where the chain gets off for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171237	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171238	I'm actually well aware that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen believes that the cuts planned by the previous government on our public service television station DR should have been made with the many redundancies that would have resulted. I also know that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's party will spend many, many billions, which we still haven't heard where to come from, on tax cuts, and that is something that the party has repeatedly put forward before the funding of the feeding routes, and that is what priorities are. However, it is true that we have spent a great deal of money to save large parts of the public sector from cuts, and hopefully the next thing we are going to do is give birth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171323	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210416171348	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 19 April 2021 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
