ParlaMint-DK_20210120130002	The meeting is open: Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education and Research (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill no. L 140 (Proposal for a Law amending the Social Security Code). Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 141 (Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code and the Liability Act. Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 142 (Proposal for a Law amending the Personal Tax Act. Peder Hvelplund (EL) and others: Haste query no. F 36 (Will the Government examine the possibility of activating the TRIPS Emergency Licence Mechanism (compulsory licenses) and issuing emergency licences for EMA-approved covid-19 vaccines in order to ensure increased production and distribution of several vaccines nationally as well as internationally within the EU and the WTO?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and others I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution to reinstate the voluntary tax payments account. B 87). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed. I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 10 (S 716) and No 11 (S 721) to the Minister for Education and Research by Ulla Tørnæ (V) and Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) respectively is deleted from the agenda. The questions shall be referred for oral answer on Wednesday, 3 February 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130118	We start with questions to the Foreign Minister by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130129	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130131	Thank you, President. Does the Foreign Minister maintain that brexit will have negative economic consequences for Britain and does the Minister think that the market is wrong when the UK stock index FTSE100 since New Year, when the UK-EU trading agreement has entered into force, has risen to the highest level for almost a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130156	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the question. It can be said that, regardless of our different views, we owe it to the people to take the EU debate on a factual basis and to claim that brexit cannot have negative economic consequences is irresponsible. Brexit makes it more expensive and more difficult to act together, we already see that. It is already costing companies on both sides of the canal, and although we do not know the full picture yet, figures and analyses show that brexit with a free trade agreement will mean a lower British bnp growth, and we have heard of many companies that have come into trouble on the British side. The financial sector is moving jobs to the continent, car production is reduced, supermarkets are warning about empty shelves, exporters of fish products are experiencing delays in exports. Will Britain be better off economically in the longer term? you can ask yourself. I hope and believe that, but hardly as well as if Britain had remained a member of the European Union. I am not going to make myself smart on the stock markets, but one explanation for the fact that the stock markets have gone up after a year of great uncertainty may be that we just got an agreement and avoided a rocky edge scenario. That would have been disastrous, and contrary to Mr. Messerschmidt I am not willing to gamble with the 600,000 Danish jobs linked to exports to the EU's internal market and the security and security that EU membership gives Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130322	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130323	Thank you for your reply and for your clarification. After all, it was a slightly more subdued fear of the future that we heard today from the Foreign Minister than we have heard before. Because normally it is said that the stock index is a reflection of expectations of the future rather than a reflection of the past, all the time that it can be difficult to act on the deeds of the past. So it has to be said that when the market is so high now I have just checked it this morning, and it's adjusted a little bit down, but it's 5%. higher than at the beginning of the year and where it was clear that an agreement was reached must be an expression of the fact that, after all, the market expects it to go well, and that must mean that the agreement that has been made is basically good. But otherwise I do not assume that the Foreign Minister had agreed to it either, because it is a little strange to say that this is a really bad agreement, so let us now move forward. No, that agreement ensures that, on the one hand, the British can still export their goods to the European Union, to the internal market, and thus have access to maintain their production jobs, but that is what is really exciting, and what I would like to free the Minister for Foreign Affairs about his attitude to the European Union, on the other hand, also gives a freedom to make agreements with other parts of the world, where we in Denmark are still tied away to what the European Union is doing. If you look at how the European Union's overall economy and size in the world have evolved over the last 50 years, it has only gone one way. Although powerful economies such as Bulgaria, Romania and Malta have been taken, etc. Within the Community, the EU's share of the world economy shrinks every year, among other things. because there are other countries around the world that quite openly make it so much better • China, India, South America etc. Then it could not be what the wise people of the City of London and the rest of the world might be looking at when they say that they actually believe that it is going to go well for Britain and that they believe that there is growth and progress ahead, contrary to what can be seen in the loser club of countries to which Denmark is thus bound, namely recession-stricken countries where it just goes down, in southern Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130533	Thank you. I think it started with the British stock market, and I think it is perfectly natural to respond positively to avoiding a rocky edge scenario. For this had given rise to tremors on both sides, including in the British stock market. In general terms, however, we are seeing positive developments in the stock markets in recent times, perhaps also due to the expansionary monetary policy of the central banks, including the Bank of England, and the expansionary monetary policy which most governments are also conducting around the world, as well as to the economic consequences of the covid-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130608	Here you go, Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130609	Yes, but as the Foreign Minister knows, it is quite easy to act today. When you sit there with your pension savings and say that okay, what is it then you have to buy now, it is quite easy to trade, both in China and in the United States and in Canada and elsewhere. So if it were just a question of over-liquidity in the market, then you would look around Britain and buy some good Danish shares. They're quite high up too. So it cannot be explained in this way by the fact that there is just liquidity that happens to fail in Britain, because if you compare it with the European indices then there is not exactly the same interpretation. So again: Is the market wrong when you have the bright prerequisite for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130647	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130648	That's the thing about making a causality that's just about, because there's an agreement and an expectation of the future, it's directly reflected in a market, in the stock prices. There are many factors that play a role in stock prices. When an expansive monetary policy is conducted..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Morten Messerschmidt knows; and that is what we see everywhere, not only in Britain but also here on the continent and in the United States and elsewhere. It is a little paradoxical when we look at the situation we are in economically, i.e. that the stock markets are booming. However, major economic challenges remain, also as a result of brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130723	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130724	But it is paradoxical that the Secretary of State is completely ignoring the great opportunities that the British are now having. In other words, in addition to having what we can call the world language as a mother tongue, which makes it possible to speak immediately with business relations around the countries I mentioned earlier, the British have also taken the competence home to negotiate agreements now in place. Can the Foreign Minister not see the prospect that Britain as a Commonwealth leading nation, at least until Her Majesty the Queen may no longer be able to conclude free trade agreements with Canada, the United States, Brazil, India etc. etc., an opportunity that we don't have? Could that not be what was the future, rather than being squashed and tied to Brussels?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130806	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130807	I see a great opportunity in that we in Europe continue to be free-trade continent No. 1 and know that we are united in the European Union and the internal market, the world's largest single market. Then we can conclude free trade agreements which are far better than if we had stood separately, not least a small country like Denmark. That's the answer to that question. So says Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that this doesn't matter. Let me just take an example. The financial sector, the Bank of England, estimates that London has lost hold fixed 5,000-7,000 jobs in the financial sector due to brexit. It was in the Financial Times here on January 6th. So it has consequences for people and their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130844	Thank you. Then the question is over. But we will continue with the Secretary of State and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130850	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130852	In view of this: Why has Denmark agreed to the EU trade agreement with China, which allows Chinese managers and specialists to work here for 3 years without complying with the general visa rules, and what has the Foreign Minister done about the consequences for Danish companies, including in relation to industrial espionage?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120130909	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the question. I would like to stress that the text that has been negotiated is still only on the table. After that, a legal review is expected before a political examination by the Council and the European Parliament. I think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt also knows. This means that we will be there in 2022 before Denmark has to take a final position on the agreement. It is therefore still too early to comment in detail on the agreement, but there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss it after the legal review. However, I can tell you that, according to the European Commission, the agreement does not provide for the liberalisation of access to the European labour market or for changes in the visa regime, which largely follow the same approach as today. On this basis, the agreement appears to extend the EU's market access, improve the framework conditions for business and business, anchor the dialogue on inter alia: workers' rights and forced labour. These are positive steps in the right direction. So in the choice between the status quo and a new approach to climate, workers' rights and fairer conditions, I clearly prefer the latter. I look forward to a thorough discussion in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe when we have the final text of the agreement, which we do not yet have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131024	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131025	With the permission of the President, I would like to quote from a Politico article in English if translated, then yes). For Politico wrote about the agreement a few days ago, here journalist Jakob Hanke Vela: "That means specialists can work in Europe for three years, if they are "intra-corporate transfers" in companies that belong to the same group. This means that specialists can work in Europe for up to 3 years if they are intra-corporate transfers, i.e. transferred from one company to another. It would be nice if the Minister for Foreign Affairs could completely deny that this is the case. The rest of us can't be allowed to read the deal. It hasn't been published yet. That is why I have not been able to get Parliamentary lawyers or anyone else to finally confirm whether this is the case. But I'm seriously worried. It is not just me that I wish it were so well, because I am almost worried every day, the Foreign Minister may say no, there are quite a lot of the Foreign Minister's own friends, including in the European Parliament, who are worried about this agreement, which has been interpreted as a huge public relations victory for Communist China. That in itself may not be the smartest thing. In other words, if you look at the other agreements that China has concluded with countries and regions in recent years, it is not exactly something that makes you want to move in that direction. Think of, for example. Australia, namely, how it has gone to them after they made a free trade agreement with China in 2015. So we really need to be reassured, not just in the Danish People's Party, but very broadly, even down in the European Parliament, about how much of the heirs silver the Foreign Minister with his colleagues in the Council and the European Commission has actually sold to the Chinese. There is a need for a clear description of how much Chinese, for example. will be able to enter and work in Denmark, in Europe, bypassing the ordinary visa rules. What makes it important for Danish companies that have a huge amount of trouble every day to prevent the Chinese from spying on their intellectual rights, etc. etc.? So if the description of Politicus is not correct, what has been agreed, Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131233	Thank you. I always think it is important to take a critical look at agreements that are being made, and we will also have ample opportunity to do so, as has been said. I can therefore repeat the information which I gave Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, namely that the agreement we are talking about here, according to the European Commission, does not provide for the liberalisation of access to the European labour market or changes in the visa regime, but it largely follows the same approach as there is today. We all agree that we must trade with China so that there is mutual investment. That's how it's screwed up today. So the question is whether, with the agreement we have made here, we improve the rules in relation to workers' rights, climate and other things that are important to us. I hope so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt also acknowledges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131317	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131318	Yeah, but I might be a little concerned about whether it actually matters. So, as I know, the Chinese have intensified their forced labour, their detention of groups and violations of ILO conventions, etc. etc., so what is it that makes the Foreign Minister think that the agreement he has then made with China should move things in the other direction? I'm just reminding you again of the deal the Australians made 5-6 years ago. It has to be said that the expectations of the Australians have been extremely disappointed. The Chinese have behaved like thugs to the Australians, despite the fact that they made a deal. So why does the Secretary of State think we're getting better off?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131353	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131355	I agree, however, that China is difficult, not least in economic matters, and that is precisely why it is actually quite a victory on our part that we have included workers' rights in such an investment agreement and a ban on forced labour. To commit China to that is surely a victory. It is clear that they must be kept up to that; it must be implemented. I fully agree with the questioner on that, but then that is what will be the task. There I hope that the Danish People's Party will support the government in keeping China up on what has been promised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131419	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131420	I find it a little difficult to have to keep someone up on something the Foreign Minister has promised when I cannot know for myself what the Foreign Minister has actually promised. It seems that the Foreign Minister hardly even knows what an agreement the European Union has concluded with China. But I hope we can find out. Because if there is one thing that is certain, then it is that China behaves globally with an unprecedented brutality and coolness towards even the countries with which they say they have warm relations. So, yes, excuse me, we are a little bit concerned about how much has actually been admitted to the Chinese, both in relation to what is going on in China, so that they can wash their hands in that relation, but certainly also in relation to what the Chinese are allowed to do in the European Union now. And you didn't get much smarter about what the Secretary of State tells us here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131457	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131458	I have some doubts about what it is, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti actually will. Because it is a choice between either the status quo, where there are no rules for example. workers' rights, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt very rightly describes the climate, more fair conditions, including the protection of European companies and investments in China, or what we have got in this agreement, which is just about for example. obligations relating to workers' rights, prohibition of forced labour. That's where I think we should use the last opportunity. I think so, because we owe it to Danish companies. We owe this to our fight for the standards and values we stand for in Europe in trade policy. And that's where the government goes in now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131532	Thank you. The question is over. I hope that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt just wants to wipe off his desk. We need to get rid of the Chinese virus). Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. We move on to questions to the Foreign Minister, but now the questioner is Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131609	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131613	Thank you for that, President. Now that the Minister has had telephone contact with the American Ambassador on the basis of the events at the Congress in Washington, the United States, which of course can only be welcomed, has the Minister also contacted the Swedish ambassador in Denmark to draw attention to the difficult, bordering to the impossible, for transit travellers between Bornholm and the rest of Denmark due to the entry restrictions for Danes, including Danes in transit to Bornholm, which Sweden introduced to Bornholm on 21 December 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131644	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen asks if I have made contact with the Swedish ambassador as part of my and the government's work to improve the transit possibilities to and from Bornholm through Sweden. I haven't. And I have not, because I have raised the matter at ministerial level from the outset, directly with my colleague, the Swedish Foreign Minister, Mrs Ann Linde. The Minister for Nordic Cooperation, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Justice have also had contact with their colleagues in Sweden, and not least the Minister for the Environment is keen to see solutions found. We have done so because it is an important issue for the government as a whole and for me as Foreign Minister in particular, also as a Bornholmer. At official level, the Danish Embassy in Stockholm is continuously in dialogue with the Swedish authorities, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also been in contact with the present Swedish Embassy. The dialogue has contributed to the ongoing opening up of the Swedes to more transit: transit has now been opened for health professionals, people living on Bornholm and children visiting parents. We in the government continue to press for a general transit to Bornholm. That is our clear objective. That's what we're working for. At the same time, I must remind the questioner that it is ultimately Sweden that decides which restrictions they think are quite right, just as is the case for us in Denmark. Bornholm has a special place for Denmark and for me personally, and the government will continue to press for solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131810	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131811	Thank you. Of course, I am well aware that the government is pushing, but that just doesn't lead to much. A little relief has been made, but we can still see that the Swedish ager hits Danes and it hits Bornholmers. It hits families on the way to burial, it hits the Bornholm tourism, the Bornholm business community and the Bornholm commuters. Furthermore, there is no clarity about the rules. I would miss the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs really came through here, and precisely because the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a very special knowledge, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also knows how much this link means for Bornholm, and how much is actually being cut off Bornholm from being able to implement when there is no clarity about the transit rules. Will the Minister now contact the Swedish authorities again to ensure that there is clarity about the rules and that the Swedish staff are instructed in such a way that the impression is not made that it is the individual Swedish customs or police officer who has to administer and interpret the rules that lie there on his own? Clear rules are needed. Will the Secretary of State be involved in ensuring that this happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120131928	I can assure you, sir. Mr Peter Juel-Jensen says that this is something that concerns me personally and the government in particular. That is why I myself have raised it with my colleague, but it also has the relevant ministers, because in Sweden it is not the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has the restrictions on entry. It's the Justitiede Department on their side it's Mikael Damberg who sits with it, and it's similar to how it is in Denmark. We have close contact with the Swedes. What we have to say is that no matter how much we push, it is ultimately a Swedish decision. We have to put everything on the table. We are pushing and we think it is right that a general transit system should be established for people to and from Bornholm. That is our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132005	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132006	I've got one last shot in the gay, and I'm gonna use that to ask you about the future. I understand this government hasn't really managed to lift this so we can clear this up as soon as possible. Has the Minister and Minister's Ministry begun to initiate a binding legal agreement between Denmark and Sweden on a transport corridor?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132026	I'm gonna go tell Mr. Kim. Peter Juel-Jensen that he actually has one more question. You do not need to use all your questions, but one more question can be asked. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132031	I must refer here to my colleague in the government who has transport and entry restrictions. But I can say that, in general terms, we would rather have a solution today than tomorrow as regards transit to and from Bornholm. We do not think it is fair that you cannot travel between parts of the country via Sweden. There are other possibilities with the ferry via Køge, and there are aircraft with extra capacity, but we need to get the transit via Sweden back up. That is our point of view and we are working hard for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132059	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen to ask the last question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132102	Then I'll take the last question too. I understand that perhaps I do not quite have the right minister. But I also think that I have heard the Prime Minister say more than once that there is no such thing as a silo build-up in a government in this government and that we should be better able to talk across ministries. Now that the Foreign Minister has so much knowledge of Bornholm and the situation in Bornholm, I hope that the Foreign Minister will throw himself wholeheartedly into this fight and ensure that we get that transport corridor through Sweden. Has the Minister begun to provide input to the rest of the government on how to build such a thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132139	I think I can repeat for the third time my point of view, which is quite clear. I want a general transit system to and from Bornholm for Bornholmers who are going to the rest of Denmark, and for Danes who are going to Bornholm. That is our point of view, and I have also communicated this clearly to my colleague, the Swedish Foreign Minister, and it has gone on to the relevant ministers of the Council of Ministers in Sweden. After all, it is not the Foreign Minister in Sweden who decides this, just as I am not the one who decides on entry restrictions in Denmark. But we are coordinating this very closely in the government, and both the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, the Minister for Transport and, not least, the Minister for Justice are on this matter. - Sir, you can. Peter Juel-Jensen be assured.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132215	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and thank you to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. After a little cleaning thanks for that we can move on to a question to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132241	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132243	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it should be possible to temporarily suspend the right of a teacher to work in the social field until a judgment is given in a case if he is deemed to be a danger to the residents, since he is suspected of having committed violence against a defenceless resident?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132310	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying very clearly that it is quite awful, and certainly not in order, that someone who is employed to take care of and provide support and care for our most vulnerable citizens should come up with violence against those very citizens. It is a great failure in caring, and it is devastating for the trust between the people who most need the community's help and the employees who are so important for the safety and well-being of these people. I assume that Mrs Karina Adsbøl is asking the question following the case of a settlement offer, where an employee is now reported to have committed violence against a resident. This is a matter on which the questioner has also raised a committee question in the past. In the specific case, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior has obtained information on the case from the responsible municipality. The information showed that the necessary steps have been taken in relation to both the citizen, the management and the forward-looking work of the offer to ensure that this does not happen again. Thus, the employee concerned has been reported to the police. I am pleased to see that the matter in question has been corrected, because I fully agree with the premise of the question, namely that as a resident of a social housing offer one must be able to feel safe and secure in one's home, and that we should not accept violence or threats or threatening or degrading behaviour towards the residents, and certainly not from the employees entrusted with the task of helping and caring for them. Cases like these must never happen. If they do, then it is important that action is taken. One of the first things that can and should be done as a management is, of course, to disfellowship the employee from the workplace, so that the employment relationship ends immediately and so that he no longer has contact with the residents. I agree with the questioner that employees who have been violent towards residents have nothing to do with working on social services. There is no possibility under current rules of temporarily suspending people from working in the sector, but I think we have other good safeguards to prevent the wrong people from being employed on social services. First of all, it is in the context of recruitment that local management must make sure that you do not hire stork vessels, for example. by obtaining recommendations and opinions from the former workplace of the person concerned. I believe that management has a clear interest in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132517	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132519	Thank you. Yes, that is exactly what I am wondering from the Danish People's Party as a social rapporteur and we are wondering, that is to say, that there is no possibility of suspending temporarily. As far as health is concerned, it is possible to deprive health professionals of their authorisation if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the health care professional is a risk to patient safety. Perhaps something similar could be done in the social field, which would effectively prevent employees who are most likely to be violent towards residents from working in the area until the courts have taken a position on the matter. After all, socially vulnerable and vulnerable citizens and people need protection as much as patients in health care. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister is not thinking that it is time for socially vulnerable and vulnerable people to have the same protection as patients. In this specific case, we're talking about an employee who's beaten an underdeveloped resident. And what you don't actually know is if this employee continues to work. It may be that the employee is expelled from the workplace, but the employee has the opportunity to look for work elsewhere while the case is ongoing. And in this case, there's bell-clear evidence. There's just video footage of this employee. And if I were the mother or father of the resident who's been through this, I'd be worried about what the employee is doing now. Can the employee still continue to work and violence against other residents in this care sector? So I really want us to get some action in this area and find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132719	Thank you. After all, I very much agree with the questioner in the deep, deeply tragic situation in such cases. After all, thinking of these citizens, who are some of those who are at the mercy of the community and dependent on the community's help, makes you feel quite uncomfortable and confident in the employees who care for them. There are, of course, various safeguards already in which I believe that the same thing is achieved as a suspension, that is to say, essentially, that you can expel the employee, but, of course, that as a management you have a responsibility to examine the history of those you hire, for example. of former employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132755	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132756	I think it is a pity that the Minister is not going to take that step and go further, so that we can temporarily suspend the employee who has committed violence against someone we should be careful of, whom we should take care of. So why is it that the Minister does not think that the residents have the same protection rights as health care staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132824	But that is not the way it can be done, because there are not the same rules and the same gripes. After all, the questioner is referring to a system in which, for example, we are talking about a system. In the case of a nurse, she can be deprived of her authorisation. It is a specific grip that is connected with having authorised nurses and other staff groups. In this area, I think it is very, very clear, and there is a clear expectation that you as a manager have a responsibility to ensure that when you hire new employees there is, of course, the requirement for criminal records in connection with recruitment • examine the history of the employees you hire to see whether they have good recommendations in their backs or the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132905	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132906	But then I have to understand the Minister's answer to my question in such a way that the Minister does not want to take any further action on this issue. Because it may well be that an employee can be expelled from a workplace, but that employee can, in the intervening period, i.e. until judgment has been given, at least work elsewhere with other residents. And there is no requirement that you should obtain information from elsewhere. It is an option that you can do so. Moreover, in relation to criminal records, it is also a "can' clause; it is not a "must' provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132944	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120132945	As I said, I believe that, in relation to the provision that management should use the option available to one to expel an employee from the workplace in such a case. And I also think that it is quite normal good management on housing offers, where we are dealing with vulnerable citizens, that you examine the employees you hire, in relation to whether there is a history; that is, if there is a conviction, you can see it on the criminal record. However, if there has been any other inappropriate behaviour on the part of former employers, one should of course take an interest in it before hiring an employee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133019	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl. We move on to a question for the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, and that is from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133039	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133042	Thank you very much. What is the Minister's position that neighbours to the upcoming high voltage masts will have to wait as long as 2023 for clarification on expropriation and compensation, cf. The article "Nahbos for high voltage masts" will have to wait years for replacements on TV SYD's website on December 21, 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133107	Thank you for the question. First of all I would like to say that I fully appreciate that the citizens concerned think that this is a difficult situation; in particular, I think it is also a pity that it has come so far because it is, it can be said, the end of a process which has just been about getting as much involved as possible, that is to say, the various local interests that were, and to take as much account of the local objections that may have been, as we have of course done as we could, in order to take account of nature and environmental interests. So it is certainly regrettable that it has come to that. But I can also say, on the other hand, that work is being done as quickly as possible to ensure that clarification can take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133200	Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133202	Thank you. Well, I'm actually really happy that the minister is showing understanding that it's just that if I have to use a good old Jutlandic expression, it's really hard, because it's a bad thing, and it's been a slow process about the location of the high voltage masts and thus also the wires. And now the citizens concerned are so obliged to wait, yes, right up to 2023, to be able to obtain the compensation which they are entitled to under the law. In fact, this means that a number of citizens feel bound up. They cannot move away; they do not know whether they have been bought or sold; they cannot do housing renovations which should otherwise be needed for the replacement of windows are mentioned as an example and such could continue. I think it is very, very good that the Minister is sorry, but what is the Minister going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133308	Thank you. Now, after all, this process is a process which also started during the reign of the author's own party, and that is why the questioner knows, of course, that my predecessor was already involved in the matter. This is not to shoot at anyone at all, but I just think that we all agree that we must move forward better at dealing with these processes with more citizen involvement and doing things, of course, at a speed which, on the one hand, takes into account that we are doing things thoroughly and properly, and, on the other hand, takes into account that it is people who have real concerns who live in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133346	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133347	It was not so terribly concrete that the Minister had on the wallpaper, but perhaps I could take this opportunity to tell the Minister that we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left have actually tabled a resolution which also contains other parts relating to citizens who are exposed to possible expropriation or public nuisances. And one of the things that we attach importance to in this resolution is precisely that the process should go faster. It is simply not right for citizens to be exposed to what is the case with the high voltage masts. I could also give another specific example, namely the army highway motorway, now I just saw the Minister of Transport entering the Chamber and there is a similar discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133440	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133441	One of the things that goes ahead here is that first studies were to be carried out on cable laying and then decisions were to be made on cable laying. There was a great deal of discussion about what was technically possible and not technically feasible. It can be said that we have hopefully left behind this kind of discussion. There was also a lot of misinformation. There were discussions where it has to be said that from the outset it should have been quite clear to people what was possible and not opportunities; but nevertheless there has also been a political game, as it has to be said that the minister who is sitting there at all times, my predecessor and I, has a little difficulty in doing something about it, because that also requires political will to do so. But of course we do everything we can do politically here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133526	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133527	That's all very well, but what's the matter here is that the line has been decided. And it is after a decision has been made on the lines that it has been decided to postpone the compensation or the compensation that people are entitled to, i.e. the expropriation itself. And that is what I think is really problematic, namely that you leave people in a, what can you say, uncertain vacuum. They know they have to be expropriated, they know they have a right to compensation, but that doesn't happen here and now. I think that is simply too bad and we should be able to do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133602-2	I do not know whether we can escape the fact that a possible environmental impact report should also be produced, and I think that the questioner does not really think we should get around it either. So that's what's delaying the process right now. And, of course, the relevant authorities are working on that can be done as quickly as possible. I also forgot to answer the question about the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, which is therefore the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and Housing. This may be relevant, also in relation to the electricity infrastructure, but will not often be, because expropriation does not actually take place so much here. In fact, it usually happens that you make deals with the pilots.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133640	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. The next question is to the Minister for Health and the Elderly and is asked by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133702	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133706	Thank you. How does the Minister think that the patterns indicated by the Alzheimer's Association should be corrected in his analysis •Klager on Nursing Homes, where the association describes how Dementia-stricken citizens are exposed to poor health care, neglect of care, and that the professional skills and competences of the staff have been inadequate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133731	Thank you very much for the question. Let me start by saying that what I could read in the Alzheimer's Association's analysis makes a deep impression and, as with what we saw in the TV 2 documentary on Else and Niels, it is totally unacceptable when elderly people do not meet with care and dignity in care. Citizens of nursing homes must be treated with dignity, respect and care, and I believe that we should all be able to expect the municipalities to respond and follow up every complaint they receive. We from the government, in a partnership with the Elders Case, the FOA and the KL, have launched a major work on six tracks to address the problems that we must be honest and say that there is in our care for the elderly. We have among other things. launched a track on a strengthened quality of care for the elderly, one on recruitment, better involvement and cooperation with relatives, professional management and new ways of organising care for the elderly, and we set in motion a thorough work in relation to the supervision of the elderly area. If you read the Alzheimer's Association's analysis, it shows that the number of complaints to the association has been fairly constant over the years, while the proportion of complaints about the professionalism of the staff has increased significantly, so that it is in relation to professionalism, according to the analysis here lags. A first step has been taken in the agreement on the reserve after the rate pool, where we have decided that new follow-up and learning tour teams should support a change in the care units that are required by the Elder's Inspectorate, and we strengthen the professionalism of care for the elderly, including with the latest financial agreement, where we have set aside 1.8 billion. kr. over the coming years to enable municipalities to recruit more employees and at the same time to allow more unskilled employees to take an education and strengthen their skills. This is an important step on the road, and in the area of dementia there are among others. With the agreement on the follow-up to the National Dementia Action Plan, a number of initiatives were launched to strengthen the professional skills and quality of the treatment of people with dementia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133934	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120133936	Thank you. After all, in the Danish People's Party we have put forward a proposal for an older law, including national standards, minimum standards, so that no night watchman should go alone with 40 residents. Unfortunately, the government does not want to support the Danish People's Party's proposal. So when we look at this analysis, the minister thinks that it is enough, that is to say, when you, for example, think that it is enough. hear about older citizens who are not seen by a doctor but put to bed, even though they have pneumonia and a collapsed lung? Why can the Minister not see the idea of an old-age law, which should give the elderly real rights, rights that patients also have? In relation to all the funds that the Minister says have been allocated, I wonder: how many of those funds are directly earmarked for the elderly? The challenge is also often when you put the means in here from Christiansborg that it is not always that they go to what they are going to be used for. So how much money has been earmarked directly for the elderly, so we know that they go to the elderly, so we know that they go to better professional skills in relation to training and to the employees who are? Then I am well aware that we have made an agreement on a travel team and training, because that was one of the things that the Danish People's Party brought to the negotiating table because we wanted to strengthen the supervision that exists, precisely on the basis of the horror examples we have seen in TV 2 documentaries. So I would like the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134121	Now I have listed a number of amounts, and we have to be aware that these amounts must be seen from a direct desire to do something concrete about the specific things, that is to say more staff, additional training, a travel team and the follow-up to critical reports on the places where it happens, in the care of the elderly. But it comes upstairs, and by following the annual economic agreements with our municipalities, so that it is not the case that you just put something upstairs and cut downstairs. But we'll follow and then put something upstairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134203	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134203-2	Thank you. I did not hear the Minister's reply, in relation to how many of these funds were directly earmarked for the elderly area. That is certainly a question to which I would like the Minister's answer. Then, in relation to this documentary, and speaking of these travel teams that we've wanted to get out, I would like to ask if the Minister knows if there is a travel team on the way to the nursing home Nyvang in Randers, which has received an order from the Board for Patient Safety. And how is that part being followed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134237	With regard to the very specific point, I think I need to come back to be absolutely sure of that, possibly with a written answer, to that question. So I look forward to receiving that question from the questioner. For the idea behind it is to have a guarantee that there will not just be a supervision of criticism, then you stand somewhere and you cannot live up to that criticism and correct matters, but that you will get help to say that there is a problem here and that you need help with management, education and other matters to correct the issues that the supervision is criticising.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134310	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134312	Thank you. I can also sense that I will also have to send out some written questions, because I am not being informed of the amount in relation to the earmarking of those funds for the elderly. And then, compared to the nursing home Nyvang, I didn't get an answer as to whether you sent a travel team out there. After all, it was one of the nursing homes that was included in the TV 2 documentary and where a number of criticisms had not been corrected. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not think that it is time for us to have care written into section 83 of the Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134345	Thank you for that and I am also looking forward to receiving the written questions and providing concrete answers to those elements. Whatever you and I think, but I know that we agree that care for the elderly is so crucial and that it is not good enough at all today, as a product of decades of cutbacks, we can read in the report from the Alzheimer's Association that it is not good enough, so it needs to be followed up. There must be a significant follow-up, and it will not be free, it will not be quick. Whatever we write in which law, concrete economic agreements must be followed up in a long, cool move with those in charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134428	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl. The question is closed. We can proceed with a question to the Minister of Transport, and it is again from Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134449	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134452	Thank you for that, President. What requirements for valid proof of transit via Sweden between Bornholm and another part of Denmark has the Minister agreed with Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134501	Thank you for the question. It is, of course, very topical in every possible way, and the challenge that we face in relation to Bornholm is something that concerns the government very much, not just myself. However, unfortunately, my answer to this question on the basis of a relatively short one, because I am not the Swedish authorities alone deciding how Swedish legislation is to be administered, and that is why it is, as I and other ministers can do, that we should have an ongoing dialogue with the Swedish Government. In order to accommodate the fact that there will probably soon be a question of how we can ensure, moreover, that there is sufficient operation of Bornholm in the immediate situation, where it is only the case that it is people who live on Bornholm who have the opportunity to move freely through the transit corridor through Sweden and thus sail through Ystad, I can already, although it is not part of the question, state that from Saturday morning at noon. 8 an additional ferry will be installed on the route between Køge and Rønne after dialogue with the Contact Council and after dialogue with the Mayor of Bornholm. I know that there is a concrete desire to have extra capacity there, and that will apply until the Swedish restrictions expire, and then we will have to see how the situation develops accordingly. But I know that this is something that is also of great interest, partly from the questioner, but partly from the people of Bornholm. I think that is perfectly natural. So I want to make that clear now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134653	Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134655	Thank you. There is no doubt that a better capacity is important for Bornholm, but we would prefer, and I think the Mayor of Bornholm has also said so, to Sweden because it is clearly the best route, and it is also the fastest route, but it is also the route that people know. Before you increase knowledge of the new route, it will affect the Bornholm business community, the Bornholm tourism, so there is no doubt that we prefer that route over Sweden. But when I ask the question, it's because I actually think you can do more. It says on the Bornholm Line's website that valid transit over Sweden must mean that you can prove that you have to cross the Øresund Bridge. You need a ticket to the Øresund Bridge, and I've been trying to get one of those. You simply cannot do that; you cannot get a ticket over the Øresund Bridge, let alone if you already have a brobizz. I've been discussing this for a long time with a young Swede named Svenne, and we talked some Swedish. There's no such ticket. But since the Minister is a traffic buyer to the Bornholm line, should the Minister not make sure that the operator now sailing on the route has access to the rules and requirements that the Swedes impose, precisely to ensure that the Bornholmers can get a clear message from their operator when they are in transit over Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134816	There is no doubt that if there is any ambiguity, we in Denmark have only one interest, and that is to clarify them, but it is the Swedish Government which has made the necessary demands, and that is why it is also they who must, if necessary, clarify what is necessary. If, in some cases, there has been an empathy in relation to the way in which matters have been checked, then it has to be said that we also have to say so. I would like to contribute to that. I hope the questioner will, and I know that the Mayor of Bornholm will. It must be my clear commitment that where we can communicate this knowledge, we will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134855	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134856	Thank you. There is no doubt that we have the same goal here. I sense that clearly on the Minister, and I know the Minister well enough to know that. What we need is clarity: what rules apply when you are in transit? After all, the minister himself has been out to answer questions about a Bornholm family who was going home and burying a mother and who could not get to Bornholm. There the Minister said that the citizen who has lost his mother must contact the Swedish authorities. It should be the case that it is the Danish state that is making contact with the Swedish authorities and not the Bornholm business community or those who are in some crisis and have a challenge with the Swedish authorities. I'm just asking for clear rules. When will there be clear rules on what applies to Bornholmers in transit between Ystad and Malmö?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134939	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120134939-2	What I have said is that it is very important that the Swedish authorities know if there are cases where you can rightly ask questions about whether they have handled things properly. However, this is the responsibility of the Swedish authorities, which is why it is also important that it is communicated if there is a need for Danish authorities to help with this. This could, for example, be done via the Danish Embassy in Stockholm, and then we will have to find out. It's not in my department, though. It's in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let me just say that we in no way disagree with the fact that what is optimal is that there is a completely normal transit corridor. That is, in fact, what will be optimal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135015	The final question to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135016	I would be very pleased if the government would act as a collective here, because here we have a part of Denmark that has some challenges, and that is not just the problem of the Minister of Transport. But I think that maximum pressure should be put on the Swedes. Perhaps the Minister should consider whether to build a ramp at Køge Harbour for a quick ferry. It could put pressure on the Swedes, for then there will be a lack of earnings on the Øresund Bridge, there will be a loss of earnings for a billion investment in Ystad Harbour. In other words, we are being forced to press the Swedes so that we can have some transit conditions to travel under. We just want clear conditions. What kind of relationships do we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135054	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135055	Under no circumstances can such a ramp be finished on this side of the restrictions hopefully being lifted, and that is what is the most important thing for the Danish Government; it is that there will be a full and free and unlimited transit. That is also why, with the restrictions we have in Denmark, we also ensure that transit can be made, so as to show with the good example what we also want from our Swedish neighbours. There should be no doubt that a number of ministers are in the process here. It is not only the Danish Minister for Transport who is contacting the Swedish Minister for Transport. For example, it is also the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Danish Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135133	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. We shall now proceed to a question to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135200	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135203	Thank you. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister promised in October 2020 that the government would not leave fishing alone if no agreement were reached before Britain's withdrawal from the EU, is it the government's view that fishing with an agreement that costs a lot of jobs for ordinary fish farmers and the fishing industry on land will have to do without the government's help?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135226	The answer is no. The government is very aware that the agreement between the EU and Great Britain has significant and also boring consequences for Danish fishing. This is certainly not a challenge to be faced by the fishing industry alone, not at all. That is why we in the government are working on the possibility of compensation and support measures. In this context, the Ministry is analysing the consequences of the agreement in detail. The Ministry has also started a dialogue with representatives of the fishing industry in a broad sense to discuss which measures are most relevant to support the industry. We must support the fisheries and fisheries municipalities. In relation to funding, the Commission has put forward proposals for using the brexite reserve to mitigate the consequences of brexit. Denmark is in the Commission's draft to receive a total of 1.8 billion. kr., and hence a significant share will be targeted at fisheries. It is a proposal to be negotiated under the auspices of the European Union so that the amount can change, but on the basis of which it should provide an opportunity to find good and appropriate solutions. There is therefore work going on on many fronts in order to ensure that Danish fishing gets through the best possible challenges with brexit and a work on which the government has a great deal of focus. We would very much like to come to the rescue of these fishermen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135348	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135351	Thank you for your answer. I certainly share the analysis that the Brexit Agreement is hard on fishing that it is fishing that is left with bucks on hand. The worst thing is that it also affects fishermen who have not even fished in British waters, and there are very many fishermen who find it difficult to understand why they have the highest bill for the Brexit agreement. After all, it is a good thing that a dialogue has begun with the industry on how to deal with the situation. And it is true that money is coming from the European Union; it is also quite reasonable that the European Union is helping to pick up part of the bill as a result of this agreement. But I am a little concerned about the content of the Minister's reply, because the Minister refers only to EU money, and the promise made by the Prime Minister in Skagen in October was that the government and then I would say that if the government's answer is not only to the fishermen, but also to the many employees on land, to the accompanying occupations, to the municipalities concerned.The municipalities dependent on fishing are in North Jutland, where both the Minister and I have been elected, and they are also in West Jutland. Therefore, my first follow-up question is: is the government willing to use Danish finance money to ensure that there is more money available than the 1.1 billion. kr., as the fisheries initially say may just cover compensation for lost quotas, while all the other things mentioned by the Minister cannot be accommodated within an amount of 1.1 billion. kr.? Is the government willing to spend fresh Danish money on this assignment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135551	Now we have to keep in mind that there seem to be these around 1.1 billion. kr. from the EU to support the fishing industry. At least that's something to start with. So let's look at how we can spend that money most sensibly. The estimate now being made by the Ministry in relation to how hard you are hit and I know that there have been various figures advanced and that many fishermen have an experience that you are being hit harder than what we are told by the Ministry is that you expect to lose the equivalent of 180 million. kr. a year when this scheme is fully phased in. So there's an opportunity to come some way with this money, and then we'll have to see if there's any more need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135633	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135634	I am well aware that there may be different statements. But there is no doubt that there are also certain parts of the fisheries that have been hit relatively harder than others. For a number of fishermen, this is not just a little bit of their fishing rights; it is relatively much. But I would ask the Minister to make it clearer that the government is the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135711	The most important thing is that you are compensated for the loss you have. And the government has a willingness to do so. Now there is a good amount of money on the part of the European Union, and we are starting to spend it. Then we will have to look into whether further needs are needed, and there we intend to have close cooperation, including with a party like the Left and with Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135728	The last question to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135728-2	Well, I am delighted about the latter, especially since we in the Left have prioritised up to 750 million Danish finance bills, among others. to mitigate the worst effects of brexit. Because this has a geographical side of battle. Where is it that fisheries mean the most? Yes, it is in exactly the same areas where the mink industry has meant the most. So there are geographical areas, especially in the North Jutland and West Jutland areas, which are facing double-dated impact, not only on mink but also on fishing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135805	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135806	Well, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen is absolutely right that, unfortunately and unhappyly, there is a bias in this. In areas where you have been hit hard at mink, you are now also hit by brexit. So we have a social interest in coming to the rescue here and coming out with a helping hand. That is what the Prime Minister has said, and I am now saying it as the minister responsible in this area. We want to make proper compensation; we want to come to the rescue of these fishermen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135832	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We move on to a question to the Minister for Education from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135901	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135904	Thank you. What are the Minister's plans to ensure a continuation of the initiatives to get exposed children well back to school, which were launched under the "Application Pool for initiative to get exposed children well back to school in 2020 • Grants related to COVID-19... and which were slowed down due to the decommissioning in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120135924	I'd like to say that we just have to keep going with those bars. If I do not do so, it is because it would be to anticipate the process that is now in place, and that would actually be quite unfair to the rapporteur. 'Cause now it's at 9:00 a.m. 15 we meet again virtually again it's quite nice to stand here face to face for once. However, both today, tomorrow and the day after, as the rapporteur well knows, we have invited researchers, teachers, school leaders and others to learn more about how best to bring children and young people back to school and close the gaps that exist afterwards. So if I said yes, I would conclude something before we get on the basis of knowledge that has fortunately been created over the last few months with the experience of the spring, but I would also anticipate a political process in which we will have to discuss with each other how best we use the additional resources that are needed. So what I really notice on the basis of this question is that this is a priority for the Danish People's Party. So did the Danish People's Party in the spring, and thank you very much for it. This also has my heart: that there are some children for whom it is particularly difficult to get back into the community again. So that is just a positive indication that I think we should certainly have our eyes fixed when we sit and talk school holes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140036	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140038	Yeah, and I'm really glad to hear that. And after I have asked this question, we have also been invited to the meetings that the Minister mentioned a moment ago. But when I really want to discuss this a little anyway, it's because there's been a very bad run in the autumn. It was back before last summer we made this deal. All sorts of associations start over the summer, and a lot is happening, and then they shut down again in September. That means, among other things, that I... On 23 October they receive an email from Dansk Skoleskak, it is then in this context that they cannot make use of the funds that have come out to the municipalities. They describe how they have tried and how the municipalities have tried to get a message from the Ministry about what to do. Well, can they transfer the money, do they have to make something desperate, how are they supposed to handle it? I will do it when I get this e-mail, that on 23 October I will send it to the Ministry, and I will ask for an answer several times in November and December, and not until 18 December will there be an answer from the Ministry saying: no, the money cannot be transferred. I really think we were in such a good time last year that we could have done something to ensure that the plans that were under way, the initiatives that had been agreed in the municipalities, could have been waiting and now we are closed until there was reopened at some point, so that we could really go further. Why is it that the Minister did not address this back in October?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140211	Well, that's exactly what I did. That is why it took so long to get an answer back to the rapporteur. It was actually because I was trying to see if we could find a technical solution to be able to pass the money over in the next calendar year. All the economy is so strangely constructed that there are such concrete walls when you reach 1 January. And that was actually why it took so long to get an answer back to the rapporteur; it was because I was trying to see if there was a way for the money to be transferred immediately to the following year. I did not succeed, and I kept trying to do so, and that is why an answer came on 18 December when I finally had to throw the towel in the ring and say that we cannot do this technically, that we have to solve political issues and, among other things, that we have to solve them. The series of meetings that has been called for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140248	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140249	I can hear what the Minister is saying, but I think that is an unfortunate expression of perhaps the lack of communication, that is, of the communication that could have been. I keep getting the pushers from those out there who really want some kind of answer. So if I had known, I could at least have said that it is being actively worked on and that we are trying to find a solution and that we agree to find a solution, but not even I could. I don't hear anything. I just think that's really a shame for both our cooperation and, as a matter of fact, for the municipalities and organisations out there who are struggling to make this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140324	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140325	I'm just gonna take that down and say, "Well, maybe I should have communicated it better." I'll think about that next time, of course. I think most of all I had my eyes fixed on seeing if we could create a solution, and perhaps I should have been better at communicating about that, but I think the most important thing is that we find a solution. Right now everything in the freezer is again, but as soon as it starts to thaw, it is just as important to me as I can hear it is for the Danish People's Party that we have some solutions that also involve voluntary Denmark and the association life in Denmark, so that the incredibly strong muscles that are there can play a part in bringing children and young people back into the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140402	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140404	I would just like to conclude that what I hear in this discussion is that the Minister and I at least agree that this is something that needs to be resolved, and I think that is a very important signal to send out to those out there who really want to get started. Some of them, for example. Danish School Chess has fought to continue. Although they have not had the means, they have nevertheless tried to do some things because they can do something digital. So I think it is a really important signal to say that later today we sit together or we don't sit together, but we sit by the screens and get a dialogue about what we do about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140438	After all, it is too early to conclude what we conclude at that meeting. I have not heard of any parties whose heart was not beating that we should involve society and voluntary Denmark in the solutions we make in terms of having children back together. Because there are professional gaps, and then there are social gaps where you have difficulties on the home front, and then there are some huge Community gaps, in relation to simply sitting at home behind your own screen and somehow trying to find your way into being a part of a community again, and there I think that voluntary Denmark can offer a great deal. So we don't have to conclude yet, but let's meet in about an hour and talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140514	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Then we'll move on when we've got the booze off. I have a problem, because I do not see Mrs Signe Munk in the Chamber, so that means that we have to go further, and since I am fortunate that both the Minister and the next questioner are present, I would now like to welcome the Minister for Business and then it is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140603	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140604	Thank you for that, President. The question is this: will the Minister answer whether the Minister considers it reasonable for a company such as the one in question to be in a position to do so? Sportigan in Randers, which was established in October and has had turnover and sales until the decommissioning in December, cannot receive compensation for more than one employee, since the requirement to search for more employees is that the company is established before 9 March?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140629	Thank you for the question and the opportunity to clarify the deadlines for the establishment of a company and the recruitment of employees in the general wage compensation scheme and in the targeted wage compensation scheme for those who have been forced out of work. In view of the second wave of the pandemic, I think it is quite reasonable that changes have been made at the time of the establishment of a company, so that new companies are set up, among other things. in the summer of 2020 may be included in the compensation scheme. That was not the case in the past, but that is the case now. We have therefore, together with the social partners in the wage compensation scheme, brought forward the deadline for the establishment of companies and employees. In the general wage compensation scheme, non-forced enterprises must be established before 7 December 2020. Employees must also be employed before that date. Companies have been able to search for these rules since 18 December 2020. If a company meets the requirement, then the company can apply for compensation for the period from 9 December 2020 onwards and until the stricter restrictions cease. This means on 7 February 2021 as well as a subsequent conversion period of 7 days. The rules for forced companies are slightly different. For companies which were forced to close before 9 December, this applies, for example, to: discotheques and trade fair centres must be employees and the company must be established in CVR by 6 November 2020. In December, we agreed with the social partners to change the rules so that in future, forced-closed companies will have to be established in the CVR and employees will be employed on the day before it is announced that the company will be forced out of business. The Danish Business Authority opened to search for these new rules on 18 December 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140819	Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120140820	Thank you for your answer. All in all, it is a good thing that this has been put in place, we should say that there is an opening. The problem is, as with everything else in life, the timing. Well, here we are talking about a company I had the opportunity to visit this one on Monday which is completely closed and off and which right now actually has 0 kr. in circulation in addition to the very little they can sell via Facebook, which means that they still have their expenses. They still have to pay their rent, and they still have to leave a huge warehouse, even with the potential for them to get an even bigger warehouse very soon, because they have bought a lot of things that will soon be dumped into their business. This means that they have a lot of fixed costs that are already there now and that are a wave that just rolls forward and that gets really, really big. So this is also a question of whether they can survive until February, and I am one of those who, contrary to what we heard from the government, where the announcement that was made after the closure of the retail trade was that you could just go into the Internet and shop there, think it is a pity if you in the towns and cities such as Copenhagen. Randers is going to see even more closed shops in midtown, because they are simply going to shut down and turn off before these compensation schemes are there. So while I recognise that this is a clearly positive step taken by the government, it is therefore something that is needed here and now and in a very, very short time. So is there an opening that we are already starting to do this now? And how and how will it be ensured that they can obtain these payments of funds? One of the problems we have had and also, as a number of organizations such as DI, DE and HORESTA have been out to say, is how long it takes to get these funds paid out. One thing is that you get commitments, for example. in February, that is next month, but if it takes 2, 3 or even 4 months before the money is actually paid out, then we are also facing this massive problem. So how can we make sure that this money comes out in these individual stores as quickly as possible so that they don't have to shut down and turn it off?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141014	In other words, of course, I cannot go into the specific case, but at a general level we should actually have liked to have solved the type of problems referred to here, now with the new rules. This also needs to be approved by state aid. Perhaps we had hoped, since we actually simply changed a date, that only notification could be made. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I must say now, for the sake of good order, that we are actually working very well with the European Commission on these issues, and I certainly do not expect any problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141049	Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141050	This is, of course, positive, and I recognise that there is an EU aspect in what we need to resolve. But back to my specific question, and let me make it even more specific: how will the acting Minister of Industry ensure that the very time it takes, from the time the funds are allocated until they are paid out, is minimal, that is. A few days, so these funds come out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141111-2	Well, we actually have quite good experience of paying out very quickly... typically it takes only a few days for an application to be processed and told that you can get the money until you have it. So, of course, that is what we are trying to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141126	Last question from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141127	I am very pleased about that, because the problem is that otherwise, in samples from the experience industry, SMEs Denmark has shown that 50%. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations has been adopted. That's what their numbers show. But if there are new times ahead, it is only positive. It was also briefly mentioned in relation to the catering industry. After all, they are waiting for funds here and now, some of them have been waiting for many months and are actually facing an even bigger problem. Is there also hope for funds on their way to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141159	I would like to say, as we move up to the more general level, that of course I have great sympathy and respect for those who have been caught in one way or another and have had to wait for compensation, but overall we have dealt with over 235,000 applications and also granted compensation, that is to say, paid packages, for well over 200,000, and the average processing time has been, after memory, about 9 days since the summer holiday it has been about 16 days. So the general picture is that it actually goes quite fast. It is clear that we must be even better at catching them, for whom it has not gone so fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141242	Thank you. The question is over. But we will continue with the same minister, and the question is also by Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141247	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141250	Thank you. And the question is: Will the Minister answer whether it is reasonable, in the view of the Minister, to allow DAZA, which represents Danish zoos and aquariums, to wait a long time, since DAZA has not yet received a reply to their request to the Ministry from 15 September 2020 concerning objections to mandatory closure periods, and does the Minister recognise that it is important to provide clarity so that DAZA members can have an overview of their financial situation and annual statement for 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141317	Thank you for the question. At a difficult time like this, when companies are hard hit by corona restrictions, we must do what we can to clarify the compensation to which companies are entitled. The DAZA has unfortunately called for a longer time for proceedings, and I should like to express my regret about this. The long duration of the proceedings is due, inter alia, to the fact that the government had to map out what information DAZA and possibly other cultural institutions received at the various times, in relation to whether they were required to be closed. In the case of indoor zoos, they are covered by the prohibition notice on 18 March 2020. Of course, indoor zoos can seek compensation for fixed costs from 18 March 2020 up to 21 May 2020. In the case of outdoor zoos, the mapping has shown that they could reasonably have the view that they would also be forced to be closed off from 18 March 2020. Thus, these companies have access to 100 per cent. compensation for fixed costs during the period during which they were closed and not in circulation. That is why we are now amending the regulation on compensation for fixed costs for companies in economic crisis as a result of the covid-19, so that outdoor zoos can get 100 per cent. compensation from 18 March 2020 up to and including 21 May 2020 instead of from 11 May 2020, of course, if they have not had turnover throughout the period. The Ministry of Industry has informed both DAZA and the business rapporteurs of the adjustment of the Order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141454	Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141455	Thank you, Minister. There are, of course, some who sometimes wonder whether the questions we ask here on Wednesday matter. There must be the answer in this case: yes, they certainly do. 'Cause it's nice to see the Minister last night at 9:00 a.m. 20.25 sent an e-mail to all Parliament's business rapporteurs at random, of course the evening before we have this question in the Assembly Hall, where the DAZA procedure had suddenly been completed after many months of processing. So I'm really happy about that, I know it was of course quite random, completely random and in general it's a really good answer, because that's exactly what DAZA was waiting for. DAZA represents among other things. Kattegat Centre, Randers Rainskov, Ree Park, but also Copenhagen Zoo etc., i.e. some pretty big tourist attractions, many of which have had a hard time because of corona, while others haven't had it so hard. But of course it is very good to have this clarity, not least that it also ensures that compensation will come for the months when they were actually forced out. So all in all, I would just like to be happy, not least that I also asked the question and that there was this completely random timing yesterday at 12:00. 20.25, where we got the positive answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141620	The minister. The Minister for Business There was no question). No, and there are no more questions here. Normally Question Time would now be over, because it is the case that Mrs Signe Munk did not arrive on time and then the question would lapse. But with the Minister's goodwill and Mrs Signe Munk's promise to be here on time in the future, we will take the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141621	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141647	Mrs Signe Munk deeply regrets and thanks for the Minister's goodwill. The question is relatively short: what steps will the Minister take to ensure better control of green marketing and does the Minister intend to convene negotiations on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141701	Thank you for the question. After all, I am here as Minister for Business, but I could have been here as Minister for Climate Change, because this is an issue that goes across several ministries and actually concerns us quite a lot. It is clear that we sometimes have some dilemmas here, because on the one hand we are calling on all companies not only in this country, but in this world to try to be as sustainable as possible, and we are also calling on them to sign it and advertise it and make it part of their branding strategy, because it can also help drive consumption in a green direction. On the other hand, of course, it also makes some demands on how to control it here; how to ensure that something doesn't become greenwashing; how to ensure that we actually have some ways to do this up so that we can compare across companies, but sometimes also • and even harder • across products and across industries. All that is very complicated, but we share, I think, the view that much more work needs to be done there. It is clear that a great deal of this is a matter for the European Union, and fortunately the European Commission also has a new initiative in the pipeline to strengthen the role of consumers in the green transition. Here we have come to the conclusion from Denmark that the very question of how to solve greenwashing must play as important a role as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141825	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120141826	First of all, I am glad that the Minister is also concerned about this issue, because it seems to me that this is a problem which is really getting off the ground in these years. Because there is no doubt that many benevolent companies advertise their environmental and climate progress in good faith, in the best of spirit, and that is very good, but other times the communications department may have just tightened the screw a little. In addition, we must also recognise that for the consumer it is a jungle. A trip down through the Usage, just on Fur, is a long thought process in order to figure out that when there is CO2 not the milk inside the carton. When you have to have the Kærgård, then the same problem. And in a completely different area, namely in relation to diesel mixed up with biofuels, this autumn there was a case in which the consumer ombudsman was involved. I fully recognise that the European Union is going to take some steps in this area and I am pleased that the Minister is actively using the Danish mandate in this regard. At the same time, I also believe that it is relevant to look at what we can do within our own borders. And that is why I would like to hear whether the Minister sees that in this context we can strengthen the consumer ombudsman, who has actually been very clear in public about the fact that it takes a lot of resources to follow up cases when there are complaints about green marketing, and that is indeed a complex and difficult task. So will the Minister suggest that the consumer ombudsman can be financially strengthened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142005	There are no current plans to start negotiations on further allocation of funds in this respect right now, but we are, of course, happy to listen to good proposals. It sounds a little strange to say it when we have just completed a financial law, but it is soon time to negotiate a financial law again, that is the case with the annual wheel, and there you can of course take it as a wish of the SF, then we will look at it. Anyway, I would like to stress that this is an important priority for us. And when I mention the EU track, it is not a question of pushing away any responsibility; on the contrary, it is a question of pointing out an opportunity, because, when we are part of the internal market, this must necessarily be something that we must do European. Therefore, there might also be reason to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142054	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142055	Should I take the Minister's answer so that the Minister is not prepared to look at what we can do within the Danish border in order to strengthen the position of consumers in the area of green marketing? I would think that was a real shame, because we could actually look at strengthening the framework for when to claim something like green. There is, of course, a guide from the Consumer Ombudsman, and this could be taken as a starting point. So will the Minister accept the clear call that it is being set in motion to look at what can be done within Danish legislation and in relation to possibly strengthening the consumer ombudsman or other Danish initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142134	No, of course the rapporteur should not take this as a sign, just as I do not take the rapporteur's question as a sign that the rapporteur does not know very well that there is already a great deal going on. We have a marketing law in Denmark which already addresses the fact that greenwashe is not allowed, so that you cannot claim something like something that is factually lacking in the facts. Having said that, I believe that development work is needed. It is probably also a development work that I think we must be honest and say that we cannot drive alone from Christiansborg and the ministries, but where we need much more knowledge than we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142212	Mrs Signe Munk for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142213	Well, there is a marketing law today, but it is my best feeling that it does not sufficiently guarantee consumers and transparency in this area. Therefore, a clear call must be made for the Minister and the government to involve the relevant rapporteurs if development work is under way. There has been an article in Politiken, in which there was a broad message from climate rapporteurs and business rapporteurs that they would like to act in this area in relation to greenwashing and in relation to green marketing. So there must therefore be a clear call for the Minister to call for broad discussions and to look at the full catalogue of options.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142250	We do not intend to call for concrete negotiations on this issue at first, but we are always happy to listen to good advice and if there are concrete proposals, we will listen to them too. It is with all due respect not quite enough to say: we wish the world were less complicated and we wish it were easier to understand. After all, we also need to have some concrete proposals on what we can do. We have a good instrument in the Marketing Act now. It may well be that we can do more nationally and, as I said, we are very happy to listen to what we are also in dialogue with organisations, but the EU track is very important here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142332	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Signe Munk. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210120142338	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 21 January 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
