ParlaMint-DK_20211215130002	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing Edmund Joensen, who has been on leave, I have been informed that from today he can again meet in the Chamber. Abrahamsen Abrahamsen's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing have thus ceased. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 103 (Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code. Foreign Affairs and Integration Minister (Mattia Tesfaye): Motion for a resolution No. B 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Denmark's accession on an intergovernmental basis to Regulation (EU) 2021/1134 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 July 2021 amending Regulation (EC) No 7/2008, (EC) No 810/2009, (EU) 2016/399, (EU) 2017/2226, (EU) 2018/1240, (EU) 2018/1860, (EU) 2018/1861, (EU) 2019/817 and (EU) 2019/1896 and repealing Council Decision 2004/512/EC and Council Decision 2008/633/JHA for the reform of the Visa Information System). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130048	I must inform you that the first question (pm. No. S 305) to the Minister for Culture, by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt (DF) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. The question shall be put to written answer. There is one question today, and it is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130102	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130105	Thank you. What will the Minister do to save old, beautiful lifts from the mutilation of the Labour Inspectorate's rules on cover?
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130114	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130115	Thank you for the question. It is important that everyone can safely and safely use lifts securely for both new and old models. Lifts make high demands on the level of safety, as the consequences of an accident can be very great. The Labour Inspectorate has informed me that these are not new rules. As early as 2015, stricter rules were introduced for the coverage of lifts shafts, such as: Kids can't squeeze their hands. However, a linguistic error meant that the stricter rules meant that these older lifts had to meet quite the same requirements as new lifts in relation to the density of the shaft cover. That was not the purpose of the rule change. And to take account of both the safety of lifts and their architectural value, the Labour Inspectorate, together with the social partners, launched work in 2020 to look at the possibilities of relaxing the rules for old lifts. Against this background, new rules entered into force on 1 July 2021. Now the requirement for older lifts is relaxed so that the individual owner is given the opportunity to make use of a perforated plate or the like. However, the holes must not be so large that for example. Children can get their fingers through. I am confident that the Labour Inspectorate, together with the social partners, has reached a solution which takes into account both the importance of a high level of safety and the architectural value of glory.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130240	Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130241	First, I think we need to determine what kind of elevators we're dealing with here. That is, for example, the case. lifts in floor buildings in Copenhagen or other major Danish cities, which have been built around 1900. These are old lifts, typically made of beautifully dark wood with brass on etc., and so they drive up and down an elevator shaft which is typically covered with some wire mesh. These lifts, which look very beautiful and have a certain history from around 1900, must therefore now be covered by plates which may be perforated, but which nevertheless are plates which make it impossible to have the same view of the lifts as we can today. Whether the rules are new or from 2015 doesn't really matter. The most recent change in the rules has thus come to this in the summer of 2021, where it is said that the plates do not have to be completely dense they may be perforated. The big question is, why? I haven't heard of accidents with such elevators. Has anyone ever sat at a desk and devised a theory that if some specific people put a long thin object through the wire, something could happen to that object? Or what's the idea behind this? How many accidents have you had? Why is it necessary to do this in addition to the fact that these beautiful lifts are not so visible anymore? It is also a large sum of money that needs to be spent on doing so. What's the screaming need to do this? How many accidents does the Minister know about the kind of lifts caused by the fact that there are no plates around?
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130431	I can't answer on a stand-by basis how many accidents there may have been through history and what animated the Working Conditions Council to rush over this rule review in 2015 which then led to the rule change. However, I would like to try to deliver that reply in writing, if possible, to the rapporteur. The second thing to say is that the changes that entered into force on 1 July 2021 are a relaxation compared to the rules that were before. And the rules that were before were made in agreement between the social partners in the Working Conditions Council by reviewing the rules and by laying down safety requirements in order to avoid accidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130511	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130512	But that means that the Minister is standing here today in the Parliamentary Chamber defending the need for these cover-ups without knowing that there should have been accidents linked to the fact that the lifts are not covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130527-2	No, I think that what the rapporteur is hearing me about is what is behind the fact that the Working Conditions Council, in agreement in 2015, tightened the rules, and what has now been animated here from 1 July 2021 to relax the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130546	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130548	If the Minister's examination of possible accidents that may have occurred over the last 100 years with these lifts shows that there have been no accidents or serious accidents or very few accidents, then the Minister will say to the Labour Inspectorate: this sounds like a desk job. You've been sitting around a table and you've had to have the time to go, and then you've come up with a new rule for the sake of the rule, because the reality is that there are no accidents with these elevators. Will the Minister do so if the examination shows that there are no accidents with these lifts?
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130625	In general, I think it might be interesting to clarify what the level of accidents has been and what it was that at the time the Working Conditions Council was animated, which consists of both the worker side and the employer side, because it was they who set out for a regulation change after they had had a general review of the rules and safety conditions, both in relation to people who use the lifts, but also in relation to people who work in and around them. In general terms, I think it would be wise to clarify what the level of accidents has been; and then you have to take the discussion and ask the Working Conditions Council to look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130701	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. Ole Birk Olesen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130710	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130727	Thank you for that, President. I think there was a minister issue less than I had foreseen in the planning, but it is good to be able to deal with this bill. It is a question of perpetuating an experimental scheme that has been that some schools have had the opportunity to take a full course of study • only to let their students take examinations in Danish and mathematics when they should have a final examination. Of course, what we have to see in connection with this is that some years ago we made a vocational school reform which means that it takes 02 in the subjects of Danish and mathematics to gain access to vocational education and training. But it must also be seen in connection with the fact that a number of the pupils who attend the schools this is about may have some challenges. For example, there is a large proportion of schools which are aimed at dyslexics, and there is a large proportion of schools that address pupils with other particular challenges or needs • the need for social pedagogy support and in other ways a hand in the back. And it can be said that it is extremely important that the fact that it may be associated with challenges to test in all subjects does not become an obstacle to one's being able to test in two subjects as central as Danish and mathematics, and thus one can also gain access to, for example, vocational training. It was an opportunity given by a broad majority in the Folketing. It is now an opportunity that has been evaluated. The schools have been asked. The administration, i.e. STUK, has carried out an evaluation of it and there are generally positive feedbacks. This means that more pupils will get a degree in those subjects; this means that more people will have the opportunity to start an upper secondary education. Against this background, we in the Social Democratic Party support the fact that this possibility must continue to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130923	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215130940	Thank you for that, President. As you know, there is an objective that at least 30%. of a year must choose a vocational training course in 2025. We want more young people to choose the vocational direction. We think this is good for young people, who in this way face a bright future with a letter in their hands. It is also good that we should bear that in mind for society and for the labour market, which is thirsty for young talents with wise hands. That is why we in the Danish Parliament must provide a good framework for achieving this objective, and we do so, among other things. in writing. - (FR) The legislative proposal we are debating here today, and we in the Left think this is a positive one. After all, the evaluation of the attempt which the bill here proposes to make permanent shows that the participating schools have had a very positive experience with the scheme. Several pupils have been tested in Danish and mathematics, and in general the scheme has increased pupils' ability to enter vocational training. There is every reason to rejoice. As I mentioned before, we, as a society, have a great responsibility to pave the way for education for our young people. Perhaps this is especially true of those who, for various reasons, are a little challenged by going to school. They may not be so good friends with the schoolbooks, but many of them I am quite convinced have the practical skills that we are then some others who might dream of having. I would also like to comment on the fact that it is clear from the consultation answers that there is great satisfaction with the draft law here, but it can also be read that many people are asking for the possibility of also examining English. I would have liked to say that I think we in the Danish Parliament should try to sit down and see if there is a basis for an experimental system including English. However, we fully agree that this is not part of the draft law, as the Minister has also explained in the answers to the hearings. In those words, I should just like to say that we in the Left naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131209	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and after a disclaimer, thank you for that, it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131230	In 2015 we agreed in this Chamber to launch an experiment for post-schools and free vocational schools, approved with a single special educational offer. This experiment will allow pupils only to take the 9th class exams of the primary schools in the subjects Danish and mathematics. The main aim of the attempt was to provide as many people as possible with flexible access to vocational training. Now the trial period is running out, and we have an evaluation that indicates that the experiment has been a success. This helps more people to get involved in vocational education and training, which is why we in the Danish People's Party also fully agree that with this bill we must make the scheme permanent. However, we would like to know in the committee's work whether we can improve and supplement the scheme on the basis of three points of interest which have emerged in the evaluation. Attention No. 1 is that the evaluation points out that it is a challenge for students in the single course scheme to go to an ordinary 9th or 10th class test. This is due to the fact that the form of an ordinary test is experienced as being in contrast to the practical teaching which is in focus on the single trade union scheme and in the teaching of the free vocational schools in general. Against this background, it is considered that the possibility for pupils to enter vocational training can be strengthened by organising examinations for pupils on the individual course scheme, so that the actual test situation does not constitute a barrier for pupils who are, moreover, assessed professionally ready for vocational training. Attention No. 2 is about the fact that the evaluation indicates that it may be a challenge for pupils in the single course scheme to receive as broad and in-depth education as pupils on an ordinary course offer. It is an essential condition for the implementation of individual vocational education by the pupils that the teaching is organized in relation to the professional level and needs of the individual pupil. The schools therefore experience a dilemma between the individually organized teaching, which is estimated to dress the pupils to begin vocational training, and the statutory requirements for the curriculum and teaching. Attention No. 3 is about the fact that the evaluation indicates that it may be demotivating for pupils who have followed the teaching of the individual course scheme if they cannot be allowed to test in the subjects in which they have worked to improve. This is the case if the student has already passed the elementary school's graduation examination or has obtained an average character of 2 in Danish and mathematics. Against this background, the school's assessment is that there may be a potential to test a wider group of pupils in order to strengthen motivation and professional self-confidence as a basis for the admission and implementation of vocational training. In the Danish People's Party we would like to have a discussion of the attention points, as the focus in relation to this group of young people must be to create the best possible framework and the maximum motivation for each young person, and therefore we may have to be ready to adjust the requirements and framework. With the expectation of a positive committee procedure, Dansk Folkeparti expects to be able to support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131535	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131552	Thank you. With this bill, the system of tests in Danish and mathematics is permanentized at post-schools and free vocational schools, which are approved with a single special educational offer, and we are pleased about this in SF. For the Danish education system must be spacious, inclusive and flexible, and this bill does just that. All children and young people must experience special needs or not experience an educational system that would like them. Therefore, we in the SF are very happy to see that with the trial of individual subjects in Danish and mathematics we have helped even more students on their way to a youth education, and for many of the students it is a vocational training. It is good that we can take a step away from rigid rules and unnecessary bureaucracy. It is a step closer to flexible solutions • solutions that open doors for those who want to, but who are squeezed into rigid rules. We know that Denmark is going to lack skilled workers in the near future. We are doing so already and this is not just good for the students, but it is also good for Denmark. We know how important education is for the future of young people, for the belief in themselves, the feeling of being able to do something special, that feeling creates good wellbeing, happy learners and healthy learning environments. Education comes in many colors and shapes, and so must it. We are all different and have different needs and different abilities and fortunately for it. But what education has in common, no matter where in the system you are, is that it gives us opportunities and courage, strengthens and success experiences. It prepares us for a complex world and for an unpredictable future, and that is precisely why everyone must have a chance to find their own shelf and live up to their own potential. So it's a really good step on the way to the very thing with this bill, so of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131749	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131802	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, the draft law provides for the permanentisation of an experimental scheme which will enable more young people in post-schools and free schools to take a 9th-class test in Danish and mathematics, bearing in mind the schools approved with a single special educational offer and which receive to a large extent pupils with dyslexia and pupils who are otherwise challenged and have a special need for support and special education. The purpose of the experiment is, inter alia, to: (ii) the opening up of the examination in the two subjects at the same time as opening up the possibility of more people entering vocational training. It is probably the other rapporteurs who are aware that Enhedslisten has not supported the admission conditions that have made it more difficult for a group of young people to enter vocational training, but, as the rules now stand, we naturally support initiatives that can help as many young people as possible to meet the conditions so that they can start their youth education. We have also noted in the legislative notes that there are very good experiences gained in the schools that have used the experimental scheme, and there are also many positive comments in the consultation responses. So on that basis, Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131929	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215131947	Thank you, President. I had an hour ago a tour of the Danish Parliament with a high school class from Mulles Legatskole, and here I actually showed the bill that we are dealing with right now and which I called a small but actually very important bill. I also called it a bill which, in a sense, has a bone in social policy, so I am quite sure that the Minister for Education, as I know also takes an interest in social policy, thinks that this is an excellent legislative proposal. After all, this is a bill which allows pupils who go on such a special educational offer to test Danish and mathematics, but without having to apply for exemption from all the other tests. It will be easier to go to, it will be less cumbersome, less bureaucratic, and there are only good things to say about that bill. This will mean that more people will be put to the test and that more will also be able to go the educational path. At the end of the day, it can be a better opportunity to go to vocational training, hopefully with a view to obtaining more skilled workers. So we support the fact that what has been an attempt, we do it permanently.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215132107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Would you mind sprinkling? We have to get back to the old habits. Thank you. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215132135	Thank you. It is absolutely true what Mrs Mai Mercado says: I am very excited about this bill. It is quite true that we are discussing large and small in this Chamber, which means that we sometimes deal with legislative proposals involving 1.3 million people at once, and sometimes we are dealing with legislative proposals where it does not include so many people. However, it is typically the case that if very few people are involved, it is, on the other hand, something that is very important for their lives, because we are typically talking about socially vulnerable citizens, citizens with disabilities or the like. So when it includes small groups, it is, on the other hand, something that typically has a very, very deep impact on their lives, where the legislative proposals that include incredibly many people can be about something that typically lies on the periphery of their lives. So it is very often the case with these slightly smaller bills that, in return, you really have the heart and really, really think it is important. And this is one of them. I had guessed that Mrs Mai Mercado would also be very happy with this, because it opens up opportunities for some groups of young people who can have a rather bumpy life if we do not get a good grip on things here from Christiansborg and get a good framework. So thank you so much for opening it up, and welcome to Mulles Legat School. It's nice that you're visiting the Folketing today. I want to say that some of what I think this can do is that it can follow up on experiments that are being made. In other words, sometimes we deal with problems in the field of education that extend over many decades, for example: why do so many leave school without being able to read and count enough to survive? Or why does a relatively large group of young people continue to be vintage after vintage after vintage who are not in education or employment and who we are somehow losing in our system? These are the mega-problems that we all want to address, but which it is incredibly difficult to really move on. One of the things that I think can be the way forward in getting some of the big problems moved up is, in fact, that you try some new methods for something and then follow up on it and then decide whether it is something that should apply on a more permanent basis. In fact, in order for this to be possible, it requires us to be together very broadly in the Folketing, because a trial period in the field of education is typically longer than a parliamentary term, or at least is very close to having the same length as a parliamentary term. Therefore, it will typically extend across several different Parliaments and perhaps also several different ministers, and therefore having the broad agreements about both experiments, but also about the longer and permanent aim is extremely important. Otherwise it will not be possible. Then you would throw it out with the bathing water when new government came in. This goes back to 2015, when the Danish Parliament gave the possibility that post-schools and free vocational schools, approved with special educational offers, could exactly make experiments where the students alone take the 9th class exam in the subjects Danish and mathematics. The background was a desire for as many people as possible to have flexible access to vocational education and training, and this then presupposes that the pupil has at least achieved the grade 2 at the primary school's examination in Danish and mathematics. That's the answer to that part about English. I do not wish to deny that we have to take a position on this at some point. However, I think there is a very good internal logic in that what this is all about is that you take the tests that are needed to be admitted to an upper secondary education, and that is Danish and mathematics. If you open up English, my first question will be: why not also physics/chemistry? For these are the subjects to be tested in connection with the examination for secondary school. These are all the four subjects, i.e. Danish, mathematics, physics/chemistry and English. And I'm not going to deny that we're going there sometime, but now I'm thinking we're gonna do this. There have also been questions about whether there could be other types of school that should have the same access. I wouldn't deny that either. I think we should be open to that too, that is to say whether or not we should go there. After all, the reason why we are perpetuating this now is that experimental schemes can only run for a certain number of years, and then you have to decide either to permanence it or to phase it out. That's where we've gotten to now, and that's why we're gonna put in place for this to be permanentized. I think there is a great deal of the second discussion which is connected with the debate on the school that we have started together and which is about a more practical primary school in general, where there is also a related discussion in my book about what kind of examinations are taken at the end of one's primary school. There I am convinced that we have done things too rigidly as it is today. I have not concluded anything yet, but we have at least taken the initiative of the government by starting the discussion that it is not certain that things will have to look like this in the future. We would very much like to see this done both by young people and by teachers, schoolchildren and parents before we conclude. But there's something like this that might come into play, too. I actually think that's what there is to say about this bill. Thank you so much for your support for that. The bill may be small, but come on, where it means a lot to the people we're talking about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215132655	We also thank the Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211215132712	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 16 December 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
