ParlaMint-DK_20211014101507	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101513	That which is listed as point No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101532	In accordance with Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure, consent must be given to this paragraph and three-quarters must therefore be given consent. That is why we are voting now and we can vote. The vote will end. In favour 104 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Orla Østerby (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The consent is thus granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101554	Member of the Folketing Lars Christian Lilleholt (V) applied for leave from 14 October 2021, cf. section 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Article Larsson Tanja3) (a) while a member of the Folketing has applied for leave from 25 October 2021, according to Article 41 (3) (a) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101634	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy for the Left in Fyns Storkreds, Mark Grossmann, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 14 October 2021 on the occasion of Lars Christian Lilleholt's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy did not wish to take up his duties. I have also received the recommendation that the third deputy for the Social Democratic Party of Funen Storkreds, Kim Aas, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 25 October 2021 on the occasion of Tanja Larsson's leave. It should be noted that the first and second alternates in the Sjællands Storkreds did not wish to enter, that the 3rd deputy in the Sjællands Storkreds has already entered Mette Gjerskov's leave, that the 1st deputy in Fyns Storkreds did not wish to enter and that the 2nd deputy in Fyns Storkreds has already joined Bjørn Brandenborg's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101729	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Orla Østerby (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. It has thus been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101755	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101820	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 107 votes (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Orla Østerby (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Then we have finished voting and I would ask those who do not wish to take part in the negotiations to leave the Chamber. Thank you. Then I assume that the talks that are left are going on outside the Chamber, so that we can have peace and quiet in the process of dealing with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101935	The debate is open. Mrs. Ida Auken, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014101945	Thank you for the floor. The bill here is about creating equality in our su system. When su recipients become parents today, the mother can get up to 12 months' maternity leave with su, while the father or the other parent can only get up to 6 months' extra su. Back in June, we agreed in the su-conciliation circle that we can do better...
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102018	So we need to have a little more quieter in the Chamber. In fact, I gave plenty of time to get outside, because that is respect for the negotiations that are taking place. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102026	We agreed in June that we could do better than that. After all, we're in 2021. Of course, we must ensure equality in the arrangements for which we are setting the framework ourselves, and this also applies to access to su, and that is why the draft law here puts an end to the discrimination against parents and ensures full equality between parents who are at risk. In future, both parents will have the opportunity to get up to 9 months extra su, and at the same time each parent will have the opportunity to transfer up to 3 months of his or her su to the other parent. In this way, parents will be treated in an equal manner without extending the parent's total period of insurance. In addition, greater flexibility is ensured so that family life can be organised to suit the individual family. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is both wise and right. At the same time, a legal basis is introduced for the Minister to allow the Danish Education and Research Authority to disregard parental income when determining the amount of income when a student has been placed outside the home. Finally, it is compulsory for the Department of Criminal Welfare to inform the Education and Research Board when it is assumed that a person who is subject to sentence or other detention measures receives su. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102149	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that means that we can proceed in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102204	Thank you very much. As the Socialist rapporteur has just said, this is quite an excellent legislative proposal we are considering here. With the bill, we are actually hitting several flies with one stone, and that is always the case in the name of efficiency. With the bill, we are correcting a number of imbalances which have existed for a number of years within the su system and, in fact, the draft law is a follow-up to an agreement that Su-conciliation reached back in the spring. Let me say straight away that these are quite sensible changes which we can fully support from the Left. As the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned, we also think that it is extremely sensible to update the rules for the award of extra Su grants to students who become parents during their studies. With the bill, we ensure full equality of treatment between mother and father in the award of su grants to couples who become parents while both are su recipients. We think that's super-sounding. In the future, both parents each receive up to 9 months of extra su in connection with birth or adoption. Each parent will be able to transfer 3 months of the extra su to the other parent, and we think that is also super reasonable. As in the past, single parents will be able to receive an extra 12 months of maternity or adoption. I think that this is a significant improvement in the equality of parents, and that is a good thing. The current rules mean that the mother has automatically been able to have 12 extra months of su, while the father alone has been able to have 6 months of su, and that is what we are amending with the proposal here. With the proposal, we are also correcting another completely unreasonable thing, because we are ensuring that young people who have been placed outside the home can be exempted from the rules on parental income by granting su. With the bill, we follow up on several different decisions taken by the Ankekaret for Statens Uddannelse, and we think that is a good thing. I hope that this progress, as I see it, will also be welcomed by young people in detention and hopefully also make their way through the education system easier. Of course, if you are a criminal and during your service, you should not be able to receive su at the same time. With the bill here, we are improving the possibilities of controlling and stopping su to criminals. It is very good, and it is actually time for us to make that change. All in all, therefore, there are a number of extremely sensible changes to the Su legislation that we can give our full support, and it is a good thing, as a minister, that this is a legislative proposal which, I believe, has the prospect of slipping through smoothly, not just the discussion here in the Parliamentary Assembly, but hopefully also the discussion in committee. But believe me, sir. Minister, that is not how guarantees are given that everything will go just as easily. I am very much looking forward to the forthcoming cooperation with the Minister for Education and Research, which has its first draft law before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102539	Thus warned, but there is a brief remark from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102543	I regret the fact that this should now go beyond the Left, because I was not asked about it by the Social Democratic rapporteur, but in the case where there is, let us say, a woman who has a girlfriend or a man who is on the labour market, does she lose any of the 12 extra clips in this regard? Because it is a question of sharing it equally between men and women. It is always said that it is a student, but one can easily have the situation that it is a man who is studying who has a wife or girlfriend who is on the labour market, and what does that mean for the extra clips? It may also be the Minister that I have to ask about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102629	What we are talking about here is that when there are two parents who are both su-receivers, we distribute the su-rocks in a different way than we have done so far. So far it has been the case that the woman automatically left 12 months of su and that the man, the father, was entitled to 6 months of extra su-clips. The 18 months taken together in extra su-clips we pool together and distribute equally between the two students.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102701	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102703	That means that this law does not apply where someone is a student and one is in the labour market. Then this law doesn't apply. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it, that if it's a woman who's on su, she'll still have the 12 months of extra clips?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102720	In any case, I have understood the agreement: if it is a student, 12 months of su--clips will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102730	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014102746	Thank you. The starting point of the legislative proposal we are discussing today is a long-standing discussion we have had in this House on how to ensure that young people are protected. It has been a thorn in the eye of many of us that we treat young people who are in a difficult situation in this way. This then follows on from the fact that we had a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party back in March, where there was a broad majority in this Chamber saying that we should have solved this; a broad majority instructing the Minister to address this issue and find a solution. That is why I am also pleased that we have this bill, not least because, in parallel with it, there is a process that guarantees these rights for young people. One of the things I am familiar with is that we in the su-conciliation circle have received a note describing the process that will take place from now on, where next summer you will be able to get su as a young person in detention. So that's one part. Then there is the specific legislative proposal we have before us, which is, of course, about saying: we want to give more options, we want to give more freedom to young students who can have su during maternity leave. What we are doing this by saying: instead of it being locked in the way that Mom could get su during the 12 months and Dad could get su for up to the 6 months, you now distribute it by 9 months to each as a starting point, and if you want it, one of the parties can take a few more months, up to 3 months more, and the other then correspondingly less. We in the Danish People's Party think that this is a good way to angle it, so that there is actually greater freedom for families. Therefore, and because of course we support the agreement in terms of defence, we support this. There is one element to which we would perhaps like the Minister to respond. It is not quite the minister's resort, but I am just aware that, in parallel with this, the government is implementing an EU directive in the field of maternity, which gives you some rights to take maternity leave. Does this mean that if you have been on maternity leave as a student, you can go on maternity leave again when you enter the labour market? Where I see a challenge, if it is also the case for migrant workers who come up here, take an education, have a child and get maternity leave, can they then also subsequently enter the labour market and get maternity leave again? But apart from that, we support the Danish People's Party bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103018	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103022	Thank you. I think I will just sign for the rapporteur's huge work to ensure that young people in detention can also get su. It must be a huge day for the rapporteur now that we secure it with this bill. I just want to thank you for that. I know that the rapporteur has been pinging with our social rapporteur, Trine Torp, and that it is now finally succeeding, is truly fantastic. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103047	The Danish Parliament can also be that way. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103050	I'd like to sign for that. I would say that it was a happy day back in March when we had a large majority in here and Trine Torp actually sat in the chair during the debate on that particular point. We could rejoice together that this is now happening. That is why I am also looking forward to it being implemented and going to work from next summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103107	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103110	Thank you. Now it was the case that I was asked a question earlier by one of the rapporteur's party colleagues, where I unfortunately got the wrong answer. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur exactly the same question: what is the situation if a student receives 12 months' su and has a child with someone who is an employee and is in the labour market? What will the rules be like in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103142	Well, it will be the case that, as a starting point, there will be 9 months for the student if the student is not a single provider. For example, if the mother... is alone with the child, it's still gone the 12 months. But if you are part of a couple, it will be reduced to 9 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103201	Then I think we can thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103217	Thank you. I can also start by saying that, of course, we in the SF support this proposal. As I said just now, it is a happy day that we have finally succeeded in finding a solution so that young people who are in detention may also be able to receive su. It's a huge victory for us in the SF. Then there is the second part of the bill, which is that parents should be equal in relation to maternity leave, even when they are at risk. Of course they must be equal, whether they are in education or not, and of course both parents must be entitled to equal extra su-clips when they have a child while they are taking an education. We know that maternity for both parents is essential to link up with the child and calm to get a day-to-day stand with a small new one, and we must of course grant that right to both mother and father, and they must also have the right to an equal length of time. When we have not done so in the past, it is quite simply discrimination. So it's a good thing we're gonna end this bill, so both parents get 9 months extra su instead of 6 months for dad or co-mom and 12 months for mom. And it is also good that we ensure flexibility so that you can transfer to each other. However, I would have liked us to take advantage of this opportunity here too, where we are changing the system, and generally guaranteed better rights for students with children, for example. by giving 12 months to both Mom and Dad. I hope that this is a talk that we can continue to have with the Minister about how we ensure that students who either have children or have children while they are students get easier to get through their education. Because it is extremely important that parents have an opportunity to continue their studies when they have a child. And it can be difficult, both because you may not be able to achieve the same as you could before, you also because your economy changes very much when you have a child. So I hope we can continue discussions on that. So far, I can just welcome this bill, which I think is a really positive development. So SF backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103422	Thank you. There are no brief comments and that means that we can move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103430	Thank you. We are also really, really happy with the agreement that was made before the summer holidays, so that we secure young people in defence. It is time, and we are very pleased to be able to contribute to this agreement. And so it's actually sometimes that you get to think: it's a little funny that it's only now that we've been thinking that this bill has to be implemented, so that we actually equate parents who have to go on maternity leave while they're in their education. I think it is so obvious that we are putting the two parents on the same footing, whether they are two mothers or a father and a mother or two fathers, or how one has arranged oneself in family terms. Now there are nine months ahead for each, and you can even move it inside if that's how it works best in your own family. So it is just so nice that we have taken some steps now in the Su area in relation to the equality of parents. So there is, of course, full support from Radicals for the bill here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103552	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103557	Thank you very much. It is the case that our rapporteur, Mrs Victoria Velasquez, cannot be present, so I will make her views known. Just as the su is a crucial cornerstone of ensuring equal opportunities for access to education, maternity rights are also an important foundation when we jointly lay the building blocks of an equal and good society. Just as the su is an important cornerstone of the objective of equal access to education regardless of the size of the purse, maternity rights are also a way to ensure that you have a good and secure environment so that the child gets secure upbringing conditions, regardless of whether the funds are few or many at home. With this change of law, we are creating a better framework for the bar, and that is something you share, and the sharing of the bar is a possible choice and hopefully it will be the same when you enter the labour market later on. Because so far, the partner has been worse off than the mother. Now both parents, regardless of gender, can now be entitled to nine months' extra su in connection with birth or adoption. We do, however, share the criticism which, among other things, has been voiced. By DGS, LH and DSF have been brought forward. It sounds as follows and I hope that the Minister will respond to the criticism when he is about to present how he views it: the proposal will put the mother worse than before, where the mother would receive 12 months extra su, and a request for 12 months extra su of these changes will be at the expense of the danger. It should also be noted that, in cases where one parent is not a trainee, it should be ensured that the parent who is a trainee is entitled to 12 months' insurance, since the income base of the other parent may be insufficient. In cases where only a parent is a student, the extra 3 months should be transferred automatically to the parent seeking training. Finally, it should be noted that the amendment of the law does not permit the transfer of the three-months of PhD scholarship between parents, one of whom is an educational student and the other is a PhD student. That has to be looked at. DSF, LH and DGS would like the Ministry to work to establish a flexible transfer area in those cases. We hope then that the Minister will respond to that criticism when he comes to the floor. All in all, however, I would like to say that this proposal does not alter the total amount of maternity leave, but is a redistribution, so giving birth and partners are equal. One comment on this is that it should be remembered that all employees are entitled to maternity benefit and that the unemployed are entitled to an exemption from the obligation of availability. Whatever partner you have, you will be entitled to a minimum of 3 months' maternity leave, so that, overall, there will be 12 months in relation to all children. The unitary list works for equality and to ensure better maternity rights, so we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we can move on to Mrs Britt Bager, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103857	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have already mentioned, this is a proposal which follows up an agreement to achieve full gender equality in the su system in relation to birth and adoption. We in the Conservative People's Party are part of that agreement, and that is why we naturally support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103917	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014103927	Thank you. It is a good draft law on equality between men and women in the award of extra pensions in connection with birth or adoption. Where today 12 months can be allocated to women and 6 months to men, both sexes will be awarded the bill only 9 months with the possibility of transferring 3. This will still be possible with the same distribution as today, or a different distribution can be made if the family so desires. The other clarifications and measures contained in the bill can also be supported by new citizens. New citizens can thus support L 32.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104009	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and since no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104021	Thank you for that and thank you for the generally very positive reception of the bill. As has been shown, the draft law follows up on the political agreement in the Su-conciliation Group to create equality between parents in the su-system in connection with birth or adoption. Many parties are now going to support the bill here, but I think I would like to thank again the parties in the circle of the agreement, the Left, the Danish People's Party, Radicals, SF, Conservatives and Liberal Alliance, for the agreement that was reached with the government back in June. This is an important step for equality in the su system, which I am glad we can join together across the Folketing. So far, the father or the other parent has been inferior to the mother. The new model specifically means that in future both parents, regardless of gender, will be entitled to an additional 9 months of maternity or adoption. There will still be the possibility of transferring parts of the extra su between parents, and single parents will be entitled to 12 months extra su. Here is what we might have to do about the exchange that was at some point, about the practical situation in the case of marriage to someone who is not a su-beneficiary. It is true that if you are a single parent, the additional 12 months will apply, but otherwise it will be 9 months for example. a mother in a relationship with another provider. In fact, in some cases this would be a three-month decline in some families. There is no need to hide that, but it is a priority that we are simply making in order to achieve this equality so that we can get the other partner, typically the danger, up to the nine months, and that is also what makes the agreement release some funds to do some other good things in this area. It is about the discussion here of the conditions for young people in detention, for which the SF's rapporteur was kind enough to grant a certain credit to the Danish People's Party. In this way things end up hanging together and being able to be financed, but there is no reason to hide that this is how the balance is made. As has also been mentioned, in addition to the rules on better equality, rules are laid down on the obligation of criminal services to inform the Education and Research Board when the criminal services assume that a person in custody or serving a prison sentence receives su or the State's adult education support. The board simply needs to be informed so that the board realizes that there is reason to check whether the student still fulfils the conditions for receiving a pension, that is to say that he is a full-time student, and that he is not given su, while at the same time receiving another public allowance in this case the support he then receives, that is to say, that he is on board and lodging when he is deployed. It will also be possible for the Minister for Education and Research to lay down rules to exclude parents' income when determining the amount of aid when the young person has been placed outside the home. There too, I think it is a very reasonable and sensible change, so that the young people who have been put on the spot, as we have seen examples, are not affected again, so to speak, by the kind of calculation that has been applied in the past and that we are now changing. Finally, the draft law contains a number of amendments and clarifications of an administrative nature. In fact, it is a case of a little clean-up in the legislation, which may well be good reason why we in the Folketing are also generally aware that we will have cleaned up when there are provisions that are no longer necessary or when there are measures that we have taken in the past that we can abolish. I would also like to say a few words about some of the somewhat more contentious comments on the road straight away. First of all, such broad support is very positive. I am aware, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, that this is not something I can expect to have every time from the Left, so I also look forward to the times when we may disagree. Here it is good that we in the Danish Parliament can agree and have some entirely sensible changes made and do so by a broad majority. There are also several SF and Enhedslisten in particular who ask if there could be 12 months for both parties. That, as I understood it, does not get the Enhedslisten not to support the proposal. It was hoped that it would be even better, so to speak, that conditions would be even better. But here we have succeeded in reaching an agreement within the economy, and in releasing funds for some other essential purposes which the parties welcome. That's what's been the case in this round. So I cannot give an undertaking that there will be new Su increases, although I understood that it was the wish of Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten must then see if it can be promoted in other contexts and whether one is willing to give it priority over other things that one also wants, with the economy that we now have at our disposal. The Danish People's Party asked a question about being a worker and in this context obtaining leave and allowances or other things that you may be entitled to if you are on the Danish labour market and if you are covered by collective agreements. As to whether there are any examples that need to be found and dug in a little more, that is something we need to do during the committee procedure. But yes, you can be in Denmark immediately and first have the right to su, then work here and be a worker and obtain the rights that exist when you are part of the Danish labour market and for example. is covered by collective agreements, what one hopes to be... that one should be... and thus be part of the organised labour market. Then there will be other options. If I have understood the question correctly, that is the starting point on which the question is based. But if there are some examples or other that make Dansk Folkeparti ask about it, we will of course gladly drill it into the committee procedure and also catch up on what might be needed by the Ministry of Employment in order to clarify the questions that the Danish People's Party may have. But thank you for the very broad support for the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104718	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104721	This has nothing to do with our support, because Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl made clear how and how the Danish People's Party stands here, but it may be a slightly technical question, and it may be that the minister should have examined it a little more closely. But let us now say that it is a woman and a man who are both students and couples; they have a child when the woman has one and a half years left of her education and the man has six months left of his education and that is 9 months to each where it is 3 months they can transfer. The man finishes his education on time, and can he then transfer the 3 months extra to the woman? You can decide that from the start when you go on maternity leave: I only want 6 months and the 3 months go back my partner. Can you do that? And vice versa it may be the woman who has 6 months left and where the man has longer time. When they enter the labour market, they are covered by the normal maternity rules, but can you transfer the three months to your partner if you only have six months left of your training and complete the training on time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104831	In general terms, the rules here guarantee a great deal of flexibility so that you can adapt it best with the training course you have also when you start using extra clips, if that's what you want. There are various ways of organizing it. I would like to take a closer look at the precise example here to answer Mr. Bent Bøgsted on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104854	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104856	But it would be nice to have it described so that the committee can get an answer to it, because it may of course affect some of the couples who get su when they have to plan the end of such a period of maternity leave. Because if you can't do that, then the three months they can transfer are wasted if they can't transfer them. I am aware of this, but there is the theoretical situation, that there are six months left and that the training can be completed if it is possible to transfer it. But it would be nice to get the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104929	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104930	We must ensure that this information is fully provided before we can vote in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104936	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014104949	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105007	Thank you. It was historic when the world's largest offshore wind farm was established back in 1991. Of all the places in the world it was of course in Denmark, it happened with the establishment of the test plant Vindeby. It has since become more than 500 offshore wind farms in Danish waters that supply green power to you and me. With L 29, we're writing a new story in the sea winds. With the energy islands, we lay the foundations for what can become the biggest construction project in Danish It is energy islands that will potentially provide millions of Europeans with green power. The objective of L 29 is to create the legal framework for the design and construction of an energy island in the North Sea. Firstly, the draft law empowers the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to prepare and design the energy island in the North Sea, to organise the necessary tenders for the energy island and to enter into contracts with winning parties. Secondly, the draft law authorizes the Minister to authorize the construction of island construction in the North Sea. Thirdly, the draft law provides for a cut-off of the right of appeal in three specific areas. This is essential in order to strengthen the safety of propulsion on the energy island, because complaints can pose significant risks and uncertainties for the project. A tight time management is needed so that the offshore wind turbines can deliver green power as soon as possible. We are now taking the next step in wind turbine history, and the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105135	Thank you. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105151	Thank you for the floor. We have a shared responsibility for the climate and we also have a shared responsibility for achieving the objectives we have set ourselves. It is crucial that we ensure the green transition both here in Denmark and abroad. We owe each other that much. For this reason, the proposed draft law on the design of the energy island in the North Sea is an important step towards a greener future and the replacement of fossil energy sources. On the left, we are pushing for a turbo so that the energy island is ready as quickly as possible. Large parts of the business community are ready, and it is important that Christiansborg does not become a stop-block. We have a tradition of being the pioneer of the green transition. We want the green transition in the Left and we want to continue the proud tradition that the previous rapporteur also mentioned, namely that it was in Denmark in 1991 that we built the world's largest, first offshore wind farm and that was also then the largest. Business must be involved, and when we go further, the energy island of the North Sea is the largest energy plant project in recent times, and this requires careful planning and not least very skilled professionals. We find them particularly in the business world, and that is why we must ensure the best possible conditions for them. We do not get anywhere without involving the business community, and here we hope that we can ensure that Denmark continues to have a strong position. In this case, we cut off administrative redress and we guarantee a legal basis for it. This has been done in order to ensure the necessary momentum in the project and to reduce the risk of overburdening administrative work. We support that in the Left. It is important that the project is not delayed because it is urgent to get green energy and reduce CO2 We are also of the opinion that it will strengthen the willingness to invest in the energy island for the benefit of both the competition in supply and the economy if we do not have block blocks. For the Left, it is important that cases relating to the energy island, despite the cut-off right of appeal, can still be brought before the ordinary courts where the process will live up to the Aarhus Convention. It should not be a secret that in the Confederal Group of the European United Left you are not happy with processes in which we cut off the right of appeal. What we would like was for us to work together in a different context on how to ensure planning procedures that can speed up and create agility in the processes we face. With this bill, the Minister will have a very broad authority to prepare and design the construction of the North Sea energy island. In general, we think this is necessary to ensure progress in the project. When the Minister gets such a broad mandate, the Left expects to be kept informed and involved about the progress of the project, and then we look forward to continuing cooperation on the energy island when we soon have to take further decisions in the conciliation circle on the island. The Left supports sustainable initiatives that ensure a green future. The draft law is considered to be good for the climate, industry and Denmark as a pioneer country, and therefore the Left votes in favour of the proposal as tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105542	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105547	Thank you. I think it is quite far-reaching to cut off the right of appeal in the normal bodies. It is true that there can be some kind of court case on this, and it will also take time. So the question is: how many other major projects should we not be allowed to complain about? What about Lynetteholmen in Copenhagen? After all, there are some who can claim that this is important for Copenhagen's development. There may be an Kattegat bridge where some will say that it is very important to get quickly to Kalundborg and move on to Copenhagen. There may be Jutland's motorways on the drawing table, where some think that it cannot be reasonable for them to be delayed by complaining. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a slippery path to move in if it is the case that people are completely prevented from being able to complain as usual about the energy island?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105650	In the Left we have had this discussion, in fact just like Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen manufactures it. It's a discussion about what's pushing us hardest right now. And right now, the Left's view is that we're under pressure on the green transition. We are under pressure to move things forward. Having said that, it is also the view of the Left that the democratic aspect of the right of appeal also plays an important role. We must then just acknowledge that the procedural aspects are currently such that they drag things very far, and we do not think we can afford that right now in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105731	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105732	I was hoping that we could come up with something that would guarantee the right of appeal on some points. Because I think it's okay that you can't complain about the museum law, because how many sunken Viking ships are out there on the area where a new energy island is to be made? But it's huge amounts of sand that have to be moved, so I think it's kind of hard not to be able to complain about that. There could also be fish interests that could be natural interests out there. Why not try to work to ensure that we have faster procedures in selected areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105808	I was thinking that the Left would very much like to go into work to look at how we can speed up the procedures. But it requires a separate piece of work, and in the given situation we do not think we have time for it. Therefore, in the given situation, we choose to support the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105832	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105835	We have the same concern in the alternative that the Left has in relation to the right to appeal. And in relation to the one about trying to do a process that ensures that in another way you might gain a more direct redress and a faster process, what is it that makes us not able to try to do it in this process? In other words, we need a quicker type of redress, including in other projects, so why not try this and see if we cannot agree on a solution so that we do not override democracy at the cost of the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105913	Our approach is that right now we are in a situation where the green transition and the objectives we have set ourselves are such that such a process must run in a different context. We are preoccupied with and we have pressed hard for it to be very, very much accelerated by the energy minister. And there we think the Minister of Energy has actually listened to us. And the consequence here is the one that we do not like either, namely that administrative redress is not being granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014105948	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110005	Thank you, President. After all, islands play a rather central role in Danish literature and in the Danish song tax, and now that we have a climate, energy and supply minister who is not only elected on, but also born on Funen, it is obvious that the thoughts are moving in the direction of Hans Christian Andersen and his fine words about the green islands, my heart's home down here. After all, it is a rare and rare privilege to be allowed to make another island. It has been shown so far that only nature and the more celestial forces have been involved in this kind of thing. And I have also noticed throughout the process that there has been sport in how one could now take ownership of the island. I think sir... Tommy Ahlers, who in the meantime has left us, or at least left the Danish Parliament, was out in a twitter war about how to name the various new islands we are creating, and today the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply has put forward this excellent bill, which I can say at the outset that we in the Danish People's Party welcome. The concerns of both Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer and others have raised in relation to the complaint process or rather the lack of complaint process, of course we share. It goes without saying that, on the one hand, it is important that such a project here is literally put into the lake with a ruggedness and a sense of self-confidence and also a pace, so that outside investors may be • the Netherlands and other nations, but it could also be private • know that this is something we really want, but on the other hand it is clear that we cannot live with the fact that we are putting legal certainty at risk. I am well aware that it is only the administrative right of appeal that is restricted to judicial proceedings and such things are still absent, but I also think, in the light of what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen said earlier that it would be nice if the Minister, when he is given the floor, would confirm that this is a special exception justified by the special circumstances of this draft law and not by a general line taken by the government. In any case, we would like to stress this point. I believe, and we in the Danish People's Party believe, that over the next few years, these islands we will be drafting legislation for not only will be able to radically change Danish energy production, but hopefully will also be able to set a direction for the whole of Europe, the whole of the Western world and, in the long term, the rest of the world in relation to the green transition. There is no doubt that the technologies that countries like India, where I understand the Prime Minister recently have been, and others are going to use to ensure a greener future, are technologies that are being developed within a radius of probably 1,000 km from where we are standing right now, and therefore it is crucial that Denmark is ambitious, and therefore it is also good that we are so many parties that can see the positive in this. There's a lot of talk about this turbulent concept of power-to-x, power to something, and we're all very concerned about that, not least in connection with this very large amount of power that our North Sea energy island will be able to deliver. One of the obvious switching points, I think, is how we also find out how to use CO2 Andersen has sat and done it a few hundred years ago, to look at what else is around the North Sea, which could deliver large amounts of CO2 to create new fuels for aircraft, for fleet and, as such, also for land transport. One of the things we in the Danish People's Party are looking at is the Ave doorworks, and we would therefore like to see future planning consider whether there is any possibility of leading at least part of the current produced in the North Sea directly into the Ave doorworks and leave it part of the upcoming ccu project, so that you will be able to produce the new fuels there in combination with the green North Sea current and the CO2 it will be quite obvious. We have Maersk's fleet just north, we have the airport right next door, and we have DSV lying down in the Hedehusene. So we would very much like to think of it here in a broader perspective as a major infrastructure project that will carry Denmark and hopefully the rest of the world forward, but basically we are delighted that one of Hans Christian Andersen's beech-light islands has arrived.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110518	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110522	We also welcome this in the Alternative, and we share DF's scepticism about abolishing the right of appeal. As I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur wants it to be a special circumstance if we do this, rather than being able to do it in general on construction projects after construction projects. Now it is the case that in relation to Lynetteholmen in Copenhagen you will do the same. There, too, the right to appeal will be cut off. It has certainly stopped at the moment because there has been a lot of negative consultation responses in relation to that announcement, but if it is also implemented, that is to say to stop the right of appeal there, then we have a general trend. What will DF do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110600	There I think I will have to refer to our rapporteur for Lynetteholmen. I do not know the specific circumstances in which I can see to it that Mr. Geej gets a reference, and then he'll be able to find answers there. There are 51 seconds left and I would just like to take this opportunity to say that I think it was nonsense I had said before. Well, it's L.C. Nielsen, who writes about the beech-light islands. Hans Christian Andersen talks about the green islands. I would like to make that clear here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110623	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110624	The reason I am asking the rapporteur about this is that it is in general terms. For the rapporteur says that if, in general terms, this means that we are abolishing the right of appeal, the rapporteur will, as far as I understood, have problems with it. But if this is just where we're gonna do it, it sounded more edible. If it becomes general, which can be very easy, because it will also be in relation to Lynetteholmen and elsewhere, what is the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110647	Well, then it's that we're very worried. It can be done in concrete terms if there are some good arguments for it. And we recognise that there may be some arguments here, but there must be no inflation in it, so to speak. As I mentioned before, I cannot do the Lynetteholm case, because it is another rapporteur who has it. We are not as privileged as in the alternative where it is one rapporteur who is allowed to sit on all matters. So I would just like to ask that I be allowed to consult that question with my colleague, and I will ensure that Mr. Gejl gets answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110717	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Filsø, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014110733	Thank you for the floor. There's a first time for everything. A month ago, SF's climate and energy rapporteur called and told about his plans for leave. That's why this is the first time I've been standing here. Well, to the point. In the SF, we're happy with this bill. It creates the framework for further work on the design and construction of the energy island. It will, as we can see, add approx. 100 km north/northwest from Thorsminde. The establishment of the energy island is essential for us to be able to produce the large amount of green power that there is increasing demand for. The Energy Agreement is therefore a good and important step in our green transition. We are a little worried that we can produce enough power in time, and we are a little sad that the energy island is only finished in 2033. The project must therefore be implemented as soon as possible so that we can get started. For SF, it is important that the project meets international obligations and legislation so that you do not run into costly delays of the project. With a two-digit billion investment amount, it is important that we protect ourselves against interruptions, and in this respect the removal of redress is sensible. However, I would very much like to emphasise that we require careful efforts before the start of the installation to ensure that the project does not conflict with EU legislation or other matters. It should be examined on the basis of the marine plan, where there is valuable nature, so that it can be properly protected. Of course, there is no point in placing the energy island on top of a valuable reef or the like. In the same way, of course, when we go further in the process, we expect that the selected area will be searched for archaeological traces before starting. We propose to oblige the government to consult the Environmental Complaints Board and the Energy Complaints Board before granting the plant permit. In this way, the public will have some assurance that legal objections to nature protection and other interests have been dealt with independently. We hope that the government will follow this advice so that the energy island can be realized with due regard to various issues. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111026	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111029	Thank you. And welcome to the platform. The rapporteur says that the rapporteur sees it as sensible to cut off the right of appeal in this project. Would the rapporteur like to say a little more why this is sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111047	This is an exceptional project. And as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, it is important to make it clear that this is the case with this project. It's a slippery slope if we do a general procedure with this. In a democracy, the private man and the interest groups must also be given the opportunity to come and say: I have this view and I will lift a hand and say that this is important. Therefore, in this situation, we propose to try to consult both the Environmental Complaints Board and the Energy Complaints Board before the process starts. Then they can say that it is important that we examine them and those conditions. It may be an intermediate solution, but we'd like to go this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111148	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111150	Well, what if it's general? What if it is not just here, but there is generally a tendency to cut off the right of appeal? It could be at Lynetteholmen, it could be at Egholm, it could be at Kattegat connection. What if it isn't the case that this is going to be an exception? So what's the SF's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111207	In general, however, citizens and interest groups must be given the opportunity to raise objections. There is no doubt about that. That is our very clear position. This applies to this specific project.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111223	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur, and congratulations on the virginity. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111235	Thank you. This bill gives the Minister a very broad authority to prepare our energy island. And that energy island is of crucial importance for our climate agreement from 2020 as far as the offshore wind turbine expansion is concerned, which is to electrify both Denmark and Europe. As green power plants at sea, the energy island must play an enormous role in relation to the share of renewable energy in Europe and thus the phasing out of fossil energy sources in Denmark and Europe. Denmark and our neighbouring countries can expect a marked increase in electricity consumption, and it is crucial for the green transition that this increase is based on renewable energy sources. With the energy island in the North Sea, Denmark is showing the way for Europe. Denmark, also through the energy island of the North Sea, contributes to the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement and the EU's ambition to increase European capacity by sea winds equivalent to 300 GW by 2050. This is where we plan for the first 10 GW. So our huge and for us scale challenging project is just a corner and a chunk of potential and need. So I actually think it's a historic day. It's not the beginning of the end to quote Churchill, but it's probably the end of the beginning. Finally, we come up on a scale of expansion that matches the problem, and that is the scale on which we have to build wind turbines in order to be able to green our heat, our transport, our industry and, in the long term, our air and sea traffic. We hope that the island will be ready as soon as possible and we will continue to work towards the highest possible speed in the process. So we are not only voting for this energy island and planning it; we expect to vote in favour of the next one, which I believe will be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111409	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111413	We are also incredibly excited about the energy island think, a green outlet, the world's largest green outlet. Where, of course, we are concerned and I can hear that there are several parties in relation to cutting off the right of appeal. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111428	Thank you. As I said in my speech, in the process we will work for the highest possible speed in the construction of this energy island. We are being pressured on access to green power around 2030, before the energy island is finished... there we probably won't have enough. And I will not stand by and look at an unfinished energy island that has been delayed for a year or two due to administrative complaints. So we would very much like to give up administrative redress and lean on the fact that it can still be tried by the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111455	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111457	So I understand that the rapporteur accepts the cutting-off of the right of appeal here. Does this mean that the rapporteur's party will also cut off the right of appeal in the other major construction projects under way or under way?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111510	No, of course this is a specific decision. However, I must say, like the rapporteur from the Left, that there are generally too cumbersome processes for the construction of green energy installations, and we can see that there are many green energy projects lying on ice for years because our overall system, including redress, is becoming too slow. So I am prepared to go into a job, like a quick job, to make it easier, faster and more flexible to set up plants for green energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111539	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on. Now it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014111548	I think it is a day of sunshine today, and it will be a party especially if we can resolve the dilemmas here with the right of appeal. I think it is worth noting that what we are looking into here is a new chapter in the Danish offshore wind farm, which has been running since 1991 and which now has the prospect of making these huge energy islands, both at Bornholm and out in the North Sea. It's kind of a 40-year development that's worth looking back at, and it's worth emphasising that this is megastort. This is sort of something that can be part of the climate solution for many countries. We are looking into something where energy production from these energy islands becomes more than we can use in Denmark and where we go from being such an oil and gas producing and exporting country to using the North Sea for massive renewable energy, which can be an energy resource that we can export to other European countries. This is the perspective that I think is important to mention here today, which is why Enhedslisten supports these energy islands and then we will see if the energy island at Bornholm is going to overtake the energy island in the North Sea. With regard to this right of appeal, I hope we can find a solution. We have something here where it is not, because it is summer house owners along the West Coast who must be allowed to complain about these energy islands that are so far out that they cannot see the windmills. We have had some processes in the past, where we laid new offshore wind farms off the West Coast, and where I thought that what came from some summerhouse owners was equally hysterical. After all, we are not here with a right of complaint for some individual citizens; that is not what is important. Could we not land something where it is a right of complaint for certain organisations? Because what's the problem here? Yes, if you look at the energy island itself, you have to move a great deal of sand, and in relation to the extraction of raw materials you could have an open mind and a dialogue about where it is intended to remove all the sand, because it is not from the Sahara, is it? This is probably something where it is relatively quickly clarified that it is something that has to be taken out in the North Sea somewhere where there may be fishing interests and where there may be natural interests. Could we not come to something where we are defined, that there are some who have a right of appeal to this and that we come to the conclusion that there is a case-by-case examination of the complaints that are being made more quickly than usual? I think that could be a good solution, because I would very much like to vote in favour of this bill, but I think it is a major problem if, just because it is a major project that you think is important, you do not want to allow a right of appeal. I think that, compared with Lynetteholmen in Copenhagen, it is easy to argue that someone thinks it is an important new town, but quite frankly, when it changes the current conditions in the Øresund and it has an impact on the Swedes, it is probably fair to have an opportunity to complain. And what about the Kattegat Bridge? I think it is fair that people, for example. on Samsø, has an opportunity to complain about the project, let alone the people who are deeply affected by it, both at Zealand and in Jutland. So this right of appeal is, of course, important in our democracy and in our community of law, but we should also look at the possibility of having projects that might have a limited right of appeal. It is not the cottage owners who have to complain about this energy island, but it might well be that there were some organisations that are responsible for environmental interests in Denmark and that think it is essential that they have a right of appeal. And I really think it would be appropriate in committee to clarify whether this restriction on the right of appeal cannot lead us to have a letter of formal notice from the Commission complaining about the lack of democracy. This is something that has been seen to have been addressed to Germany in other cases. So I think that on this day of joy, when we are debating a proposal for an energy island in the North Sea, we should just solve the final problem of ensuring democracy around that energy island, and I think we can succeed in that if that is the way to narrow the field of complainants. They are not holiday home owners, but they are environmental organisations, they are fishermen, etc. There's gotta be a way to handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112031	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112034	Thank you. In the alternative we share very, very much Enhedslisten's enthusiasm about this day and also party over the energy island. We also share Enhedslisten's concern about the right of appeal. How strong is Enhedslisten that we should have it solved? Is it decisive for Enhedslisten that we somehow resolve the issue of redress in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112100	We believe that this is an important problem, but it is not the case that I am setting out a list of findings in advance when we are going to have a committee reading. And I have already suggested that we should try to see if we cannot find a solution, for example. countries that it is certain organisations that have a right of complaint in this case and that we have outlined what sort of processes it is, to what extent it can be ensured through openness, for example. where it is envisaged that the sand should be moved from and how quickly it should be moved. I believe that this kind of thing can be achieved by having an early openness and thus ensuring that those who think about complaining may be so well informed that they do not complain. There was a seminar yesterday with Vind Danmark, which had biodiversity and climate as a theme, and where it also emerged that there was something in the complaint processes, where it could be better that you just picked up the phone and talked to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112203	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112205	I very much agree, and the alternative will also be able to support some of those ideas if we can find a type of different redress for very, very relevant complaints. If it just turns out that we can't, and it's going to be business as usual, and that we're just going through with a limited right of appeal or stopping the right of appeal, what will Enhedslisten do?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112229	My approach to this is the positive and optimistic one, that is to say I can listen to the fact that there are several parties who can see that we have a problem with this limited right of appeal and that we should therefore find a solution, and I will work to do that in committee. So, yes, I'm not in this negative position that I'm losing this little punch. Because I am listening to the fact that there are several parties that are so responsive to it, and that instead of a • what should be said about the total rejection of the fact that there may be a right of appeal, it could well be found that this is another solution that we could land on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which means that we will move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112316	Thank you. L 29, the bill to establish the overall framework for the design and construction of the energy island in the North Sea was decided with the climate agreement we made last year, in 2020. That is why it is right, good, that we are now moving on more than a year later. With this bill, we are giving the Minister the authority to make the necessary design steps for the establishment of the energy island, including tendering for ownership and construction work for the energy island, etc. This is because we now need to ensure momentum in the project, not least in view of the fact that Denmark has a very great need for new renewable energy, and it is increasing day by day. But precisely because there is a momentum, there is, of course, the small problem with this draft law that we are cutting off the right of appeal in those areas where it has so far been possible to identify the benefits thereof. This applies, first and foremost, to the central site permit of the draft law. However, legal certainty continues to be ensured because there is access to justice. So if you want to highlight some of the important elements of this bill, you can say that there is something sensible about adjusting the right of appeal to ensure progress, and that is simply because we have to do this by 2030, and you can go to court. Having said that, although it is not in this legislative proposal, we are really going to use this opportunity to stress that this project must not be delayed and that it requires political decision-making. Therefore, it is important that we decide to maintain some different things, first that the island should handle 10 GW sea winds from the start. We have taken important decisions on the energy island in the North Sea together, which is why I am also confident that together we will really keep this focus on both capacity and speed. After all, there are assessments that say that we in Denmark must have electricity consumption of approx. 120 TW in 2040, of which the energy island can now deliver approximately the 45 TW when it is fully developed with 10 GW sea winds. So there is a need for a clear political indication that the energy island needs to be expanded so that it can handle 10 GW sea winds from the start. Because it's too expensive and time-consuming if we start with a small island and then start making it bigger. Then you have to go through a process of environmental studies and approvals, which can cause it to be delayed. The barriers and uncertainties that may otherwise delay the process must be removed in order to get closer to the original vision of establishing the energy islands by 2030. Therefore, it is somewhat worrying to hear that this year in 2021 we are beginning to say that we cannot achieve that. It is incredibly important that we get started, also if we are to achieve a 2030 target, and we must not question whether Denmark's great ability to deliver green power at the end of the decade is now as uncertain as it can be. It also creates uncertainty for our entire industry, which is dependent on the green stream. Of course, it is also important that we constantly focus on the export potential we have with the green current from the North Sea, and it is important that we continue to ensure that there is also an international agreement in place to get our energy islands up and running. But it's not necessarily a condition at this stage. We are confident that the energy islands will be able to be profitable, and that is still a reservation we have. That is why we must finally say that there is a need for us to have an unequivocal political indication that the energy islands are being realised. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112743	Thank you. That is a brief comment to Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112747	Thank you. The reason why I am asking the parties about the right of appeal here is that we are a little systematic if we are to solve it, so that we can have our magnificent energy island. The rapporteur says that the rapporteur sees it as an adjustment of the right to appeal as being cut off, but the right we have to take it to court is, of course, constitutionally guaranteed. Well, it's not something we do. What is the rapporteur's view when he says that it is an adjustment to the right of appeal to cut it off?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112818	We've had to read this with the right of appeal, because it can stick out a lot. It is, of course, the whole process of this, which means that it is adjusted in the proposal that the right of appeal has been removed. That's the way it is. It's not like you've just made a little twist about redress. But that is why it is important, as the rapporteur also says, that we are guaranteed a constitutional basis in the courts, and that is the way to go. But we see that it is incredibly important that we focus on the establishment of energy islands, but of course not blindly, and we must ensure that all approval processes and everything are in place, that is clear. This is, of course, a prerequisite for establishing something that is so great, and there are both the environmental and, of course, the socio-economic consequences, and we must also recognise that we are a little out in an experiment. There's a lot of this we don't even know yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112920	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112921	I agree very, very much. However, will the rapporteur perhaps help to ensure that we can perhaps find a solution, even here, where we are making a type of revised right of appeal that meets the democratic obligations that we feel we have, but which might make it more flexible? And if not, does the rapporteur think that it should be general that we should cut off the right of appeal for the large construction projects? Or is it just in this project?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112948	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014112950	There's a good question. There are two things. We support the proposal, but we are clearly open to looking at options for alternative ways of redress, so that we also have confidence in these major projects that are being set up. What we are seeing now is that in several places we have popular opposition to several major renewable energy projects, and it is of course important that we have the support of the citizens for the green transition, which is why it is also important that they have confidence in the democratic process. So if we can see here that there is something, also in terms of legislation, regulation, we have to have updated, adjusted in relation to the green switch-over, and I think that is the case in general, we do have it with regard to port legislation and a few other things where we have some regulatory stop-blocks, then we have to look at what it takes. Because we are facing a huge transformation, and that is where we must ensure that our legislation and democratic rights are in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113050	Thank you. Then it does not look as if there are any more rapporteurs present. Well, sir. Peter Seier Christensen came out of darkness. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113109	Thank you. I was just sitting in the corner waiting for it to be my turn. We are proud of our wind energy as something special Danish, and not without reason. But that doesn't mean that it's a good idea to build more wind turbines in Denmark. In fact, it's a really bad idea. We have too many wind turbines in Denmark. It is clear from the fact that we stop the windmills when the wind blows a lot, simply to avoid the useless current. In some places there is no transmission capacity to bring the power to the users, and elsewhere German producers pay Danish windmill owners to stop production so as not to break down the market due to too much power produced. Denmark's excessive wind turbine capacity is only possible because we can draw on the base load capacity of neighbouring countries. If our neighbouring countries choose to go the same way as we have done in Denmark, our electricity system will become even more unstable than it is today. Today, we can export parts of the surplus production to our neighbouring countries when we produce more than we need ourselves, and we can import when we cannot cover our own consumption. However, if the production of our neighbouring countries becomes as unstable as the Danish and in the phase of fluctuations in Denmark, we will have a serious problem. Then we will not only experience violent fluctuations in the price of last week hit the price at some point 6 kr. per kilowatt-hour, i.e. 20 times the normal price. In the worst case, we'll get power outages, i.e. there's no power in the switch. If there is a shortage of electricity, we cannot count on our neighbouring countries to fill up the gap in Denmark because we have removed our backup capacity. When the talk goes on more wind power, there is always talk of storing the current, ptx etc., but it is not an available technology at this time. Maybe it will be, it's conceivable. Technically, the processes are possible, but will they also be commercial? If it's gonna cost me what do I know? 20 kroner. or 50 kroner. To produce 1 litre of petrol will not go through, so it is irresponsible to pre-discount that it will, of course, be an option. Let us wait to build the extra wind turbines until we are sure that there is an opportunity to translate the power in a useful and profitable way. It should therefore be obvious that we should not build more and produce more wind energy until the possibility of storing electricity is available. Yet the climate-enthusiastic parties cannot get enough. Energy islands need to be built now. Energy islands will only make the energy supply crisis worse in future Denmark with high costs, dependence on our neighbouring countries and the risk of blackout, just to pursue an ideological approach to wind energy. It's the wrong way to go. If we were to share the sun and wind equally, Denmark should much rather focus on research into nuclear power. In this area, good Danish companies are already well advanced and in the future, the demand for the most clean energy source, nuclear power, will be enormous at global level. Unfortunately, when it comes to wind energy, we are quite alone with this at Christiansborg. New citizens cannot vote for L 29. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113417	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party, with a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113422	Thanks for the speech. We agree with the rapporteur that we need to look at all technological possibilities for having green energy and achieving climate targets. When the rapporteur speaks so convincingly about nuclear power, I want to hear what the time perspective is for that, if the rapporteur would say that nuclear power could actually be available, even if we look at it in relation to a 2030 objective. I hear the rapporteur say that there is no need for wind turbines, because we actually have another technology, but how clear is it and how quickly could it go?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113458	This bill we are discussing today has nothing to do with the 2030 objective. It will not be finished until after 2030, so it is not part of the 2030 target. As regards nuclear power, I would say that we are looking at the whole climate challenge at global level, and we do not necessarily believe that we should have nuclear power in Denmark, but we can support the development of modern nuclear power so that we can get it widespread. We see it in a broader perspective and not just what Denmark does, because what we do at global level is essentially what we do at global level.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113535	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113536	Thank you. We have to remember that 2030 is only a partial target, because we have to be climate neutral by 2050, and there is energy islands an important asset in order to be climate neutral by 2050. However, I do not think the rapporteur really answered what the prospect is of having sufficient safe nuclear power to solve energy challenges in Africa or elsewhere globally if that is such a good solution. What is the time perspective for this, and where is one?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113608	Nuclear power is already widespread today. Nuclear power covers a large part of the energy needs in France, so nuclear power is present, but we think it could be researched to improve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113622	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners, and that is why the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014113636	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we're still incredibly excited about this energy island. It is, of course, a chunk of joy for us if we are to cut off the right to complain, and we need to solve that, but the energy in itself will be the world's largest green outlet. We will probably have a brand called Green Danish Power, because we will produce much more than we need ourselves. Energy Island is being built as an artificial island that can collect and distribute the flow from surrounding offshore wind farms, and I see wind turbines of a size that we do not yet know, i.e. a whole new progression on wind. The island will initially have a capacity of 3 GW and could cover 3 million European households' electricity consumption. It is extended in the long term to 10 GW. The precise design of the island has not yet been established, but an island that can handle 3 GW sea winds is expected to have a size equivalent to 18 football fields. In the long term, capacity must be able to expand from 3 to 10 GW, which is enough to supply 10 million households. As the island expands, it is expected to remain at least on an area equivalent to 64 football fields with installations, for the windmills are standing around. As I said, we are delighted with this in the alternative. Imagine that Denmark can get such a brand and deliver green power to not only ourselves, but also to many other countries. Then the problem with wind power is that it's fleeting, because when it doesn't blow, it can stop, and when it blows a lot, it can overload the grid, and there it is clear that we have to find some solutions. Power-to-x, which is this concept that's about making power for e.g. hydrogen, which you can put into a tank and store you can't store power on anything other than batteries, and it's not a long-lasting solution. We do not dare to hang our hat on it alone, but it is certainly something that there must also be room for out there. Then there's also one thing like wave energy, which is heavily on the way, which should be ready in 2032 when this energy island is ready, and which may be a type of supplemental mechanism that makes when it doesn't blow, there's still a drain, and then we might be able to supplement with wave current when there's no wind energy. That way, I think we're gonna get all this sorted out, and on that account, we're gonna be leading the world. What concerns us, of course, is that we cut off the right of appeal and that is a huge problem for democracy. In the alternative, we are also strongly opposed to cutting off the right of appeal for the construction of Lynetteholmen in Copenhagen, which was suspended at least on 7 October, because there have been so many complaints that they will do so. It is difficult to stand here and argue that we must not cut off the right of appeal elsewhere while we do this. It leaves the alternative in a gigantic dilemma, i.e. a game changer. I have never stepped out of a political agreement in the six years I have been here, nor do I believe that the alternative has ever done so, and we hope we will not do so here either. But we have to solve this, we have to find a way to deal with relevant complaints, instead of putting democracy out of effect. We cannot put democracy out of effect at the cost of the climate or put the climate out of hand at the expense of democracy, because these are two sovereign values, these are two sovereign concepts that we have to respect in this thing. That is why we are pleased with, among other things. The Enhedslisten's proposal to try to solve it, and I am glad that many parties at least see it as a concern. I am also glad that there are some parties that say that if it is to be at last, it must be in this case and not on the other construction projects. But in the alternative, I've been sent back to the engine room, because we have to try to figure out how to solve this problem of redress so we don't get it cut off. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114044	Thank you. There are no more rapporteur speeches, and there are no comments either, so that is why it is the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114057	Thank you. A hundred years ago there was a Danish high school teacher named Poul la Cour, who as perhaps the first in the world, at least the first we know of, experimented with how to create electricity with a windmill. He even experimented on how to convert that stream into hydrogen, that is hydrogen, via electrolysis. Later, in the 1970s, we started making landwind mills in this country. It was mostly such self - pioneers and later Vestas, and yes, the rest is history. Denmark is the homeland of wind energy. We are being seen out in the world as the country that not only started the revolution of wind energy, which today allows offshore winds to compete with coal and nuclear power at prices around the world • we are also seen as the country that takes the lead in the development of new technology. Indeed, the decision we are about to make today is an expression of this. When we made the world's first offshore wind farm in 1991, Vindeby, it was an impressive achievement • 11 wind turbines, 54 m high! That was a lot back then. Today, of course, it seems rather small. Kriegers Flak, our largest offshore wind farm today, has 72 wind turbines and each of them is 188 m high. That park can supply power to 600,000 households. We have 2.3 GW offshore wind turbine capacity in Denmark today. This island in the North Sea is going to initially deliver 3 GW and later up to 10 GW. It is 10 million European households to which it can potentially supply green electricity. It is clear that it is of course many more than we are in Denmark, and that is good, because it means that we get excess green electricity that we can use for something else. For example: We can, of course, dust this invention of which Poul la Cour helped to develop over 100 years ago, namely electrolysis. Fortunately, that's happening. Very large investments have already been made in Denmark in electrolysis capacity, which will be expanded over the next few years. In other words, we are solving two challenges that today are with sea winds. 1) How do you actually store that energy for the days when the wind may not blow so much? This can be done by converting electricity into hydrogen and then hydrogen into perhaps other forms of drive, such as: various forms of green fuel for our aviation, shipping and heavy road transport. And that is the second challenge that this potentially helps us solve: the fact that we also need to decarbonise our air transport, our shipping etc. It's essential that this expansion goes fast. We are committed to this, and I think I can say on the many questions that have been raised in the process, the great focus that has been placed on the fact that there is probably no question that has taken up as many as the timetable exactly how fast it can go. And Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer is one of those who, I think rightly, has been very focused on the fact that we should be quite sure that we will optimise these processes so that we can finish as soon as possible. And we believe we have done so. We have agreed in the conciliation circle that we must monitor this continuously so that we ensure that the pace set is not lowered. This also means that there will be a different right of appeal than that which is normal. It is not a completely new practice for all construction in Denmark that we are doing here. This is a special case, and I would very much like to warn you that we are shying away from it. Of course, I respect the fact that in committee we can go through it a little thoroughly and see if there could be any possibility of doing something more flexible. I will not deny that. But basically, I have to say that there is a discrepancy between what I think I have experienced in the negotiating rooms and the enormous pressure that has been exerted to make this happen quickly, and then the debate in this Chamber today. With all due respect for the legal certainty which, of course, must be present and which is also present, as long as judicial review is, of course, still possible, I must say that I do not think it is connected when one is politically very hard to have things go as fast as possible and when one is perhaps even critical that things are not going very fast enough, but at the same time perhaps not going to be part of this measure, which can be the most important in ensuring that this is actually done within the timetables. On the bottom line, it's a day of joy. Thank you for your very good cooperation. This is complicated stuff. These are also new things that no one has tried before and decisions that need to be made which we have not been around in the past. And that is why it is important that we have good and trusting cooperation with each other in the conciliation circle, and I feel that we do. That is why, of course, I am also looking forward to a good and constructive committee process on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114645	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114650	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister says he will not reject anything more flexible. If you look at what it is you could complain about in this case, it is not the summerhouse owners who are having their views upset; I really think that it is the right to complain about the extraction of raw materials that is the most central issue. Then we couldn't find a solution there? Couldn't it be relatively early to find out where all this sand has to be moved from? Or is it just so free? In other words, there must be some new areas of mining extraction which one should be able to spot where is, and thus one could engage in a dialogue with those who think there are problems in it. I think it is okay that you cannot complain about the law on museums, but it could also be that you could find out relatively quickly where that island should be, and then there were some archaeologists who could check whether there is something interesting on the seabed there and that you will sort it out without the risk of delaying the project. Perhaps we should try something that is based on greater openness than we normally have in such large projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114802	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114803	I very much look forward to discussing this sort of thing, in the course of the committee procedure, of course. However, I would just like to say that no one can misunderstand: what we have presented here is what the government means and what I mean, but it is also an attempt to make a very honest and honest summary of what I had a clear view that we agreed in the conciliation circle. This is not the first time that those present in this Chamber have heard of this; it has been a fairly thorough discussion. And I really feel that I and the government have been very listening, but it has been primarily in relation to the frustration and concern that has been that this is going to be a rather long process no matter what. And that's why we have to do everything we can to get it down as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114902	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114904	Well, it is quite true that we have discussed this here, but we have also concluded that it is fair enough that the parties have the opportunity to see what comes into the consultation process and can include it in the final conclusions. And that is where we stand today. We have a committee procedure and that is probably not what is going to delay the whole project. A timetable is being set today and what has been said at first reading will be included. If we can find some good solution, which means that the raw material recovery is paid off and there are some specific organisations that have a right of consultation on that • Well then why not go for it? I really think that we should try to choose the best solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114949	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014114952	I would just like to say that people who are listening are aware that I fully agree that the questioner is of course aware of this. In other words, this administrative right of appeal, which we are proposing to restrict, is indeed a right of appeal which could potentially lead to quite considerable delays. It is also important, of course, to emphasise that judicial review and so on. We're not cutting off anything. It is also important to state that this is not such a general change in the future for all future projects we are talking about; it is this specific matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115025	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115028	Thank you, and thank you, Minister, for setting the framework for this political debate towards this amazing power adventure. Is it not true that the Minister cannot cut off the possibility of judicial review? Now the minister says it's not something they do. It is as far as I understand and, if I am mistaken, constitutionally guaranteed. I would also like to appeal to the Minister to ensure that we get it right here, that we have a proper right of appeal in the work of the committee, so that we all feel that we are on a secure democratic basis. So has the debate today made an impression on the Minister in relation to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115108	I cannot and do not wish to cut off an opportunity for judicial review, but I think it is important to emphasise that, of course, it is there for those who are trying to make this a matter of legal certainty, because of course there is legal certainty. Of course, the arguments put forward here today make an impression. I must also point out in all silence that the other arguments have led to those who have been the basis of this resolution and which I have the impression that, fortunately, there is broad support for the motion for a resolution, thus making a greater impression. So if Denmark is going to be a pioneer country, and if we are going to do this, which is actually about something far more important than ourselves and a small Danish adventure, and which is about making a difference, also in the world, and we are going to be the first country to do this type of construction and to make decisions within a time frame that makes it possible for others to have an interest in following, then we are quite busy, and then we cannot afford to postpone processes significantly due to administrative complaints.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115219	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115220	Now the alternative has also problematized the fact that we are cutting off the possibility of these complaints in the negotiating room. I understood the Minister that this could perhaps be done in this matter, but did I also understand that the Minister felt that this should be an exception? Because it looks like it's going to be a general problem. We have Lynetteholmen, we have other things where we risk simply starting to cut off the right of appeal and the democratic process in relation to a large number of major construction projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115253	This is a matter which concerns the specific case of the North Sea energy island. What concerns all sorts of other cases of a similar nature must be taken into account in those cases. This isn't a general decision. Does this mean that a similar decision can not also be taken in other cases? No, certainly not. There are precedents and there will probably also be cases in the future where similar considerations will be taken into account. In fact, I foresee that, within my own region of energy and energy planning, these are the sort of discussions we will have with each other many times in the years to come, because I think everyone agrees that we need a massive expansion of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115341	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115344	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for his excellent speech, which started with Poul la Cour, this windmill pionary who was a high school man and really tried to get in the way of inventing a new sustainable form of energy in parallel with the rise of the high school movement. I would like to propose from the Radicals that we call the wind island after Poul la Cour, thereby contributing to the considerations of the Minister, who may have a comment on whether it was not a very suitable name.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115412	That is part of the consideration. Was Poul la Cour really radical, or was it before the Radical Left was founded? We're gonna have to check that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115424	Here you go for another brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115426	Poul la Cour was a visionary even before the creation of the Radical Left, but with his roots in the high school movement and his pioneer work in the field I am not pale to say that he was in the spirit of at least welcome to the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115442	Yes, and then Poul la Cour was also employed by the Danish Meteorological Institute, an institution which belongs to my ministry. So there are many good things to say about him.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115448	Yes, there will be no further brief comments to the Minister, and then we can go further. The debate is closed. I propose that this proposal be referred to in the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115504	The debate is open. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115517	Thank you for the floor. With L 31 we add a sub-target to the Climate Act of 50-54 per cent. CO2 We have an ambitious 2030 target, but we also need to ensure action in the shorter term. We have done so, and we must continue to do so, and an ambitious 2025 target helps to secure it. The same is true of the government's recent green road map, which emphasises that we should not push the hardest decisions at the very last moment to sometime in the late 2020s. We emphasise this with the road map. The last 70-percent reduction target decisions must be taken by 2025 at the latest. Let me also punk the myth that Danish climate policy stands still, that it is all just future talk: By June 2020 Denmark was going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 by 40.9%. Compared to 1990 levels. With the latest projection from April 2021 and with the Agriculture Agreement, we now stand to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 48.7%. in 2025. This is due to political action and the many agreements made by a broad political majority. And let me just mention three specific areas where we can see an effect already or shortly. We can see the trend in the sale of green cars, which has increased significantly since the Green Transport Agreement, and it will also have an impact on the reductions in 2025. According to the climate projection, emissions from oil burners are expected to fall from 0.62 million. t in 2019 to 0,24 million t in 2025, for gas pine there will be a decrease from 1.29 million. t in 2019 to 0,71 million In addition, CO2 is expected to be a CO2 t CO2 as much as already happens and is expected in 2025. But, of course, we have to move forward, and fortunately the green transition has become a matter on which we are united in Denmark. It smoulders of engagement around in Danish companies, organizations and associations. Thank you for the effort and the many important inputs we get to our work from here. The ambitious climate effort has come to stay, which is why, of course, the Social Democrats also support L 31 and that we should have an ambitious milestone for 2025. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115759	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115803	Now the rapporteur said that we have an ambitious climate target, and that is the 70-percent target that we have in 2030. And now we have a new target in 2025, and we think that in the Enhedslisten is really important. But there is also a development that is happening out there, and I think it is somewhat thought-provoking when the Dane who has been involved in gathering together on the IPCC report, the last serious report, in an article today arrives that if we in Denmark are to live up to the Paris agreement, we should actually raise our target from 70%. is 78%. It will be so exciting what the Climate Council will make of recommendations to Parliament and government when we arrive in February, i.e. whether the Climate Council will include the latest knowledge that more needs to be done in order to achieve the goal of the Paris Agreement. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur has also come to the realization that we are facing raising our targets in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115904	I continue to believe that 70%. is extremely ambitious. I have not read the relevant article to which the rapporteur refers, but I believe that 70%. is very ambitious and that it is important that we also keep our noses on the tracks in order to deliver on the concrete instruments that must get us there. It is the government's great focus; it is the social democracy's great focus, that is, that we agree to bring ourselves closer to it. But, of course, good ideas on how we can increase the level of ambition in climate action are always welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115939	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014115947	Thank you. After all, the Climate Act says that the aim is to live up to the Paris Agreement. And there are researchers who come and tell us that if Denmark is to make its contribution to meeting the Paris agreement, then the 70-percent target is not enough. It's gotta be 78%. instead. Then it is not enough just, as the rapporteur does, to maintain that we have an ambitious objective and that we are trying to do something practical. Does the rapporteur not see that we are in a situation where we have to re-evaluate about 70%? Is serious enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120020	As I said, I have not read the article in question, but I would like to say that when we look at the countries around the world, there are few places where we go as ambitiously to climate policy as we do in Denmark. I am proud of this, also proud of the momentum that we are ensuring, so that, just two years after we agreed to make a climate law, we have reached the point where we have set out half the way. I think this is very ambitious and it shows action behind our great ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120057	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120101	Thank you to the rapporteur. In relation to the Climate Council's recommendations on this sub-target in 2025, they have been out to say that you should also have other indicators, so that you can, like, keep an eye on how things are going with achieving these goals and our 2030 targets. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur how the rapporteur feels about this and how the government reacts to what the Climate Council also says, so that, at the same time as this sub-target, we must also have the other additional indicators here to measure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120137	That depends on what kind of indicators the rapporteur has in mind. Well, in our climate policy we have some goals: one million electric cars in 2030, for example, were set as an objective with the transport agreement. We have also just reached a large agreement on agriculture, with a reduction target of 55-65 per cent, which must ensure that we also get the sector that is hardest to get with and that cannot be directly electrified, as many other sectors can. So, in this way, I really think that we have a climate policy in which we also give concrete expression to what we need to measure by the fact that we are getting momentum.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120229	Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120231	Then I will try to ask in another way: why is it that there are no more indicators in this bill compared to this sub-target for 2025? Why are there no other indicators?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120251	Yes, of course you could choose to have done that, and we also had a general talk, when we made the Climate Act, about how many indicators etc. you have to make. However, I also believe that it is important, as the climate programme also shows, that there are different ways of achieving a 2030 target. The climate programme shows, for example: different scenarios, so I might also think it might be a little inflexible if there are just a whole range of indicators that are important. The most important thing is that we achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves and which are set out in the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120329	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120333	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions measures, and I would like to ask the rapporteur: can the rapporteur mention three priority measures to achieve this new objective? Now there is an agricultural agreement, but beyond that what measures could be taken in relation to our industry and to our technology? After all, the government is working a lot on this principle of hockey staff, so what are some technologies that must quickly bring us up to this goal, what needs to be done to help the industry, and with what means?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120406	Well, the 2025 target stresses that it cannot be a hockey stick if we are to achieve such an ambitious goal in a relatively short period of time. What exactly it is for instruments to be used to achieve the remainder of the paragraph up to 50-54 per cent, which we lack, is one of the things we need to find together. We're on the 48.7%. now, which is found, so it is clear that something is missing. As you know, no decisions have been taken on this, but we do have a climate programme which also shows what it does, for example. could be for remedies. There could be, for example: be able to raise the level of ambition at CCS, the Nordjyllandsværk could also be an opportunity, and a green tax reform can also provide some things, but that depends on the concrete agreements and the implementation of it. But what opportunities there are is, after all, available knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120510	[Sound emission]... very much in our catalogue, one can say we have to go through in committee, so there is actually already a list from there. Now, CCS was mentioned, and we are about to start doing so, and we have actually tried to get involved with it in the past in order to achieve a goal here in 2025. What else could be seen in relation to the catalogue of all the things we are going through here in our committee? Which three will you give priority to?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120538	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120540	I think it was a little the same question as before, and I have already pointed out these three specific things, which could be something where there could be reductions, and these are some of the places where there is the greatest potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120556	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120559	Thank you, President. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is not so much content but more form. I remember when we made the first Climate Act I think it was in December 2019 how the climate minister and, I think, also the Social Democrat rapporteur strongly stressed the importance of this being a broad settlement, so that the business community could now quietly invest, because it was known that there was no likelihood that voters could put the Folketing together in a way, so this would go away. That is, in fact, a point of view that I share. I think it's a good idea. I would therefore like to ask how the rapporteur feels about creating an indicative climate target for 2025 based only on the most outrated left-wing majority that can be found in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120647	First of all, I would like to reject the fact that it is an outrated left-wing majority. It's the government's support parties that are behind this, and it's a parliamentary majority. There have also been discussions and discussions about this, and now the Danish People's Party and other parties will also have the opportunity to join it today, so that we can move forward with the climate effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120717	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120719	That does not answer the question, Mrs Paulin. The fact is that in December 2019 it was thought that it was a value that the Climate Act, as we had agreed, had a broad majority. I think it was only New Citizens who weren't with me I don't know if there were some on the left, like for example. The alternative that wasn't in it. At least very, very few parties did not participate. Now you do this without any bourgeois parties, without any of the parties that want this government changed. That is to say, if there are parliamentary elections and if the Prime Minister is comfortable just once to comply with the Constitution, then there is within the next few years that it may be that this will fall away. Does Mrs Anne Paulin think that this is fair to the business community that she had many warm feelings for back in December 2019 in relation to making a broad settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120803	I still have a lot of warm feelings for business climate action. Now I know that it is at least my clear impression that at least the Left will also support this 50-54 percentage target. And I also hope that the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and others will join it today, so that we ensure the breadth, and if that is not the case, I look forward to hearing what the good arguments are for not wanting to join this ambitious milestone.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120836	Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120839	Thank you. I noticed that the rapporteur mentions the Nordjyllandsværket as one of the opportunities for achieving the 2025 target. I myself visited Nordjyllandsværket last week and saw how coal was brought in. The Nordjyllandsværket itself says: If we are to advance the phase-out from 2028 to 2025, then it is urgent, then we cannot wait any longer, then we will have to make that decision now. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we can give a guarantee that the government will now start looking at how to phase out that coal more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120912	Thank you for the good perspectives at Nordjyllandsværket. I do not give any guarantees for anything, because I do not think it would be appropriate for me to stand here and give one guarantee or the other, but I would like to say quite specifically that it has been analysed as an instrument and also as something that can be played in the various debates that are ongoing in the climate area and which will also run, as the government's roadmap will also show next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120949	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014120951	But can the rapporteur answer whether the Social Democrats will help to see that we are advancing the phasing-out of coal from 2028 to 2025, and do we recognise that if it is actually to be possible, we will have to look at it very soon?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121012	Social democracy fully recognises that we are in a hurry, also in terms of achieving our 2025 objective, so of course we must look at the means there is and take a decision on how we will then lay the way to it. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121029	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and then it is Mrs Bjerre, the Left, who is going to be on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121053	Thank you for the floor. I might as well say this first as last time: the Left, of course, supports a climate target for 2025, because everything else makes no sense for the climate. If we are to take our climate responsibility seriously, it is important that we reach CO2 The sooner we can reduce CO2 It is not to show climate responsibility to go for a hockey stick model, where we only have to find the reductions by the end of 2030, because we have to remember why we are pursuing climate policy. We are doing this to curb climate change, not to achieve an objective in isolation. The 70-percent target does not in itself mean that we are meeting our climate responsibilities, it is the total emissions that count and the climate challenges are serious. This shows the weather of the summer and, above all, the new report from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, which is why we must start now. Having said that, I have to say to the government and my colleagues on the left: how disappointed we are in the Left in you. The milestone we are discussing today is the continuation of a political agreement that has been chosen only with a red block, and that is despite the fact that the Climate Act, with our 70-percent objective, has been concluded by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. I know the Minister prides himself on this on several occasions. Nevertheless, it has been decided to make an agreement only with its support parties, and it is quite unheard of that we, as a party to the Climate Act, will only have the opportunity here to vote in favour of this law, on which a narrow majority has agreed. I can only guess why you have chosen not to invite the Left or other blue parties. Maybe it's to take some easy points home in the press, or maybe you don't think it's nice that others also care about the climate agenda and even very burning. Unfortunately, however, the fact is that an agreement has been reached which relates only to a partial objective. The agreement does not contain any new reductions or new measures, and we in the Left think that this is a pity. The Left is always ready for climate negotiations, and we are happy to support an ambitious 2025 sub-target, and if we had been there, we would have pressed for the agreement to include concrete initiatives and action as well. In fact, a bourgeois climate policy is about investing in the green transition so that we both improve the climate and at the same time ensure growth. This is the only way we can become a green pioneering country. For example, you can look at earlier and more ambitious removal of biogas, faster clarification of the supply of ptx and CCS and faster phasing out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværk. In fact, the Nordjyllandsværket is urgent, because if we are to advance the phasing out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværk, we have to get started now, and therefore I would like to make it quite clear that we on the Left are proposing that we already have a plan for phasing out the coal at the Nordjyllandsværket, so the plant will stop using coal as early as 2025 instead of 2028. It will contribute 0.7 million. t CO2 We are serious when we say that we will find more reductions and invest in the climate. So let us now get on with concrete action. That is why I can conclude by saying that we support the milestone and we agree with the agreement, but we also expect us to be called for negotiations on the practical implementation of the agreement. If the government does not invite us, I hope that I have received a signal from the Red Support Parties that it is foolish to keep us out of this. You are doing the climate a huge disservice, so let us instead find solutions together. I think this is the best thing for Denmark, and it is the best thing for the climate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121508	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121512	Thank you. I am also a new climate rapporteur, so I do not know the details of those negotiations that ended with the participation of a certain circle of parties. Now the rapporteur mentions the desire to phase out the coal into the North Jutland plant, so I would like to know if the rapporteur thinks that we should reopen the climate agreement which covers industry and energy as soon as possible to see how we can achieve more reductions. Now the Nordjyllandsværk is mentioned; it is one subject, but I could also see that one could help the industry phase out more gas faster with the high gas prices that are currently available. It would actually be a service to friends if we could help parts of the industry to phase out some expensive fossil energy more quickly and to arrive at an electrification which would then replace. So is the rapporteur in favour of reopening that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121611	I can confirm that. If we are to achieve the 2025 milestone, we will have to look at how we are going to get there, and then we will have to reopen the agreement on energy and industry, where, among other things, we have to. Have a look at how we can achieve the targets. That is what we have said in the past. We have also written this in a letter to the Minister for Climate, where we have proposed an earlier and more ambitious roll-out of biogas and a faster clarification of ptx and ccs, and now we are also proposing to advance the phasing out of the coal at Nordjyllandsværk. But that does not mean that everything is up in the air; it just means that we have to look at some concrete action.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121652	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. No, go ahead, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121658	Thank you. Yes, we have two questions. Second Vice-President Yes, but it is good to get in). In other words, the reopening of agreements seems to me to be very relevant to the question: how do we live up to the Paris Agreement? After all, one of our climate scientists is out to say today that we actually have to go from 70%. up to 78%. in relation to reductions in Denmark to comply with the Paris Agreement and comply with the Climate Act. I find that interesting. That means that this 2025 target is a little lean, and that it really is a hockey stick if you don't want to go any further. Then the rapporteur believes that we should set a higher requirement as 2025 targets than these 50-54 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121738	Thank you. It is such a good help if you just push in, also on the other question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121743	I think you're just like sir. Soren Egge Rasmussen that is also very interesting points. But what we have to go for is that I also hope the rapporteur agrees with us that we are going to be climate neutral. That is, of course, what is involved in climate responsibility. After all, we are setting targets that are sufficiently ambitious to go straight to the limit of what can actually be done, so that it keeps pushing us to fight for the climate. However, these will have to be targets where we will also ensure that we are actually a pioneer country and where we will actually become climate-neutral, while at the same time being able to grow, while at the same time creating more jobs where we will ensure that we do not export emissions and jobs abroad. So if sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen can come up with several concrete proposals for action, in terms of how we can get even closer to climate neutrality, so we are always happy to listen in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121836	Thank you. And then it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121839	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I agree with the criticism of one of the ways in which the government has dealt with this issue. However, I do not understand that the Left will end up reacting that way. Because by voting in favour of this law, after one has thundered against it being made with the extreme left, or at least with what is relatively far-fetched there, do you not just legitimize the government to do it another time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121907	Well, I really hope that this is not seen as a signal that we in the Left are legitimising this way of working. And I also hope that, with my speech here today, I have sent a very clear signal to the left that it is stupid and if the government is going to continue with it, yes, they are not really helping themselves, because they could have brought with them some people who helped to push for more ambitious agreements. Then, when we end up voting for the sub-target, it is because it is good policy. It is good policy that we find the reductions as soon as possible and that we do not wait until 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121941	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014121943	Whether this is a good policy or not, I think I will be discussing it in my rapporteur's speech in a moment. However, I think that the rapporteur corrects his criticism in the wrong place. I can understand why the left has agreed to this. It must be great. They're just here to push the government to get maximum socialism and radicalism through. That is when the government we have to criticise for not wanting to be broad as they go out and say that is what they want. So I do not think that Mrs Marie Bjerre should be more naive than that she can count on the fact that once this has been voted through with the votes of the Left, one will go out and boast about it and say precisely that yes, yes, we did not disagree any more and that it has now been adopted over the middle and so on. I cannot appeal strongly enough to the Left to do the same as they say, and that is to vote no. Let the Socialists do this!
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122025	I think it would be wrong to vote 'no' when you agree with the content of an agreement. We agree on the sub-target, that is to say that it is a good idea. But I simply cannot express enough how scandalous the way in which this has been done is. It is absolutely unheard of in relation to parliamentary work that the parties should not be involved in conciliation, and that is where we are deeply outraged in the Left, and I hope that I too was very strongly signaled in my rapporteur's speech, and I do so again in a report to this law. I really hope that this will not happen again, because then we are really fucked up. And then I also hope that the support parties will be aware of their climate responsibility and realise that this is a stupid idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122112	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122115	Thanks for the speech. The rapporteur mentions the Nordjyllandsværket as an example of something that the Left believes we should look at in relation to achieving the 2025 target. Specifically, I would like to know whether the Left and the rapporteur have also given concrete thought to the funding in this context. Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122138	That sounds like a good left question: where should the money come from? We are always interested in that, so thank you for that question. I have, of course, noted that the Nordjyllandsværket believes that the advance of the phasing out of coal will cost a lump sum in the region of 400 million. kr. In addition, we should expect that there will be a loss of revenue as a result of energy taxes that will not come. Now we have received the Nordjyllandsværket's answer to what the funding is, but I hope that the government will also come along and see what solutions can be found. And we in the Left would very much like to take part in the discussions on funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122217	Would Mrs Paulin be kind enough to address the second question, if she so wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122224	Thank you. I don't know if that was an answer to what Left's funding was but it was an answer to what Nordjyllandsværket is thinking. But then let me try to ask you something else. I know that the Left, like the Social Democratic Party, believes that we should have a green tax reform, that we should have a uniform CO2 so I would like to know if the Left agrees most with the Climate Council level of about DKK 1 500. per ton or Danish Industries of about 400 DKK. per tonnes. Have you laid down on a level in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122302	I will start with the first, that is, with the financing of the phasing out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværk. First of all, we are going to get the government to take this proposal seriously and work on it, and then we are going to have a look at what the real cost is. For now we have the answer to what Nordjyllandsværket thinks it will cost. And then the questioner asks more specifically how the Left intends to finance it. In other words, we have always said very clearly that we are ready to use the scope for the green transition, and we are ready to do so here too. Then the questioner asks about green tax reform. And in the Left we want a uniformly high CO2 we haven't determined exactly what it is for an amount. And I think there too, in respect of the agreement we have reached around the group of experts to look at a green tax reform, that we are awaiting what they are making of recommendations to us. However, the rapporteur notes that the Left wants a uniformly high level of CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122403	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122406	Thank you. I would like to thank you for a good and, I think, exciting speech from the rapporteur of the Left. The constructive approach taken by the Left is very positive, and I am pleased to hear this desire to phase out coal as quickly as possible. I can also understand that there are several polemical points against the reddest left, which I assume include Radical Left, there I would say that we do not think we are ourselves. However, I would like to accept the call for proper involvement of the Left in the continuing work, despite the fact that I do not fully accept the description of the extreme left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122439	Thank you very much to the author. I am very pleased about this, and I believe that we can also help the Left and the Radical Left and the other blue parties to make much more ambitious climate policy together. So I thank you for your willingness to cooperate. I think that would be good for the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122457	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. And that is why we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122515	Thank you, President. First of all, I feel the need to thank Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen to confirm that he does not regard himself as a socialist. This is a good start, and we have not yet reached the lunch break, so it certainly makes the day brighter to look into than it might have been before. Because when you look at the bill that the Minister is putting forward here, it is a facet of radical and left-wing parties that are behind it, and it is clear that in such a bouquet of various parliamentarians and parties, well there you can then rubricize some in different ways, and I would say that it was not my intention to accuse Mr. Niels Helveg Petersen for being a socialist. I can say, however, as consumer information, that I consider it to be radical as just as bad. Having said that, I would like to say that this law, both in terms of content and in terms of its creation, is, of course, now I must be careful not to use too strong a term of power. I have already argued, under the previous rapporteurs, that I think that, now that a practice has been put in place and even praised both others and themselves for it, emphasising the importance of broad conciliation, it seems wrong that to the climate law that has been passed and travelled from not just Herod to Pilate, but I think from Beijing to Washington, and commended myself, and I wonder if what has been said is that it is a virtually unified parliament that is behind it, then a law of amendment that is being implemented with the three parties, which I am not going to do with the fact that I have not been able to rubricate in the face. It just doesn't seem right. And could that be because you couldn't agree? No, obviously it cannot, because the Left is obviously voting for anything, whether they have been involved in negotiating it or not. So what is really more than a demonstration of power, in which the government needs to show that one can also give one's red parliamentary majority something, I find it very difficult to see. If that is bad in terms of content, then we could return to Mr. Poul la Cour, mentioned by the Minister, who emphasizes how wind technology and other technologies typically have to go through a ripening process before they become market-ready, and because they may be further developed in new phases and yes, they move completely into areas that had not been foreseen at all. I am quite sure that la Cour had not expected that one day windmills would be built on the seabed or islands etc., but we are still doing so today, and that is precisely why it is in my optics, in the optics of the Danish People's Party, that we are now setting ourselves a milestone. We have decided to reduce the Danish emissions of climate gases by 70% in 2030. Compared to 1990, and then you start to make a 2025 target, yes, it can force some things that make you use too expensive technologies or unripe technologies, perhaps in the year 2023 or 2024 or 2025, which, for a cheaper money or more efficiently, could have realised the reduction of climate gases by 2026 or 2027, and that is ridiculous. That is why we are opposed to a climate target in 2025, and there is so much sense in the government that it has chosen to do just that indicative. That is to say, there are no consequences at all if you do not comply with it. I would like to ask the Minister for Climate Change to confirm that. But that's why we stand firm on the agreement that we made back in December 2019, not that it's ideal, we would like to have it, and it's no secret that the Folketing or the conciliation parties behind the Climate Act had reflected a little over the costs that the Corona has had for business, so that you might have to go down to 65%. instead of 70%. There hasn't really been a mood for that. Of course, we accept that. We do not start searching for alternative majority voting in order to implement laws, just as the government does here, which then modifies the original starting point, because this is not how we in the Danish People's Party work. We accept, once we have made an agreement, that then it is the one that holds. And I wish the government did the same. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122919	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014122931	What a lovely thing to have to discuss today, namely that we will have the goal about 2025 also • something that we fought for should be part of the Climate Act, back when we negotiated it. The reason why it is so important for us to set a target for 2025 is precisely because we stick to the fact that action must be taken all the time and that we do not push decisions ahead of us because they are too difficult to make. Therefore, we are very happy that we have chosen to follow the Climate Council's recommendations and set this 2025 target right where we do. It has not been without struggle, but we are really happy about it because it sort of binds us all to the mast in relation to the climate action: that we have to get going now and not tomorrow. Various issues have been discussed here today so far among the rapporteurs who have been on the platform and in the questions that have been asked, and I would like to comment on some of them. One is the terrible thing about the fact that some parties have come together and found a solution. I just have to say, without referring to meetings that have taken place in the Ministry, it wasn't all of a sudden that this came. In other words, I took part in numerous meetings, and it may well be that the chairs at the rapporteur level have been changed in different parties, but that was not all of a sudden. There were many meetings that preceded this and where nothing really came from certain parties. That is why I am really glad, in fact, that there is the support for this objective, which in turn has been made on the basis of the Climate Council's recommendations. Then I also think, and it is important, that it is as if we should read back from time to time the agreement we made on a climate law, because it is as if some people are forgetting parts of it. Sir. I think Morten Messerschmidt forgets that it says that an indicative target should be set for 2025. It's in the deal, and that's what we're doing now. So we actually live up to the deal. There is also the question of whether we should turn our ambitions up. Well, it is also a mechanism that is already in the very good agreement on the Climate Act that we made. In 2025, we're already looking at the 2035 targets. I mean, we're constantly going to be stopped by what it is that we need to act on the climate crisis. So I actually think I will end by recommending my fellow rapporteurs to do the same thing as me, and that is printing out the agreement on the Climate Act and putting it on the desk so that you remember it every time we start working on this, because it's actually really good, and it helps us to keep the level up on climate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123214	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123217	The rapporteur says that many meetings have been held and that this partial objective was not something that came suddenly. I can only say that, in the case of the Left, it came suddenly. We weren't invited to a single negotiating meeting on this sub-target. So I would also like to know if SF thinks this is a proper way of working, i.e. that you make an agreement on the Climate Act and then do not invite all the parties to the agreement when it comes to making changes to that law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123254	First of all, I have to arrest the fact that this is a change to the law. The law does not say that it is the contracting circle that should set an indicative target; it says that an indicative target should be set for 2025, and that is what is being done. I will not go into a calendar discussion with the new rapporteur from the Left, because I just recall meetings where this has been negotiated and discussed from the top up and down. So I don't recognize that picture. Sometimes there's a lot of process talk in here. We can also welcome the fact that we come up with solutions. And I can hear that the Left supports the objective that was also recommended by the Climate Council, and I am really happy about that, because it also means that we stand together around all the action that needs to be taken in order to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123333	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123334	I just want to clear this misunderstanding completely off the table if you think that the Left and other blue parties have been involved in negotiations on the milestone, because we do not. I think it is appropriate to highlight this here when we debate it in the Parliamentary Chamber, also in order to signal to the support parties and the government that we are absolutely clear in the Left to set ambitious climate targets and also to negotiate concrete reductions. So it's stupid not to invite us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123407	Well, I'm not gonna go into that discussion anymore. I can only say that I am glad that there has been a change of attitude. The meetings I attended about a 2025 target weren't exactly fruitful, and they didn't point out that you were ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123419	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123422	I must admit to the rapporteur that this is part of our agreement. But, and that is the important thing, it was not decided back in December 2019 where the level should be. That is what I would like to say to the rapporteur, who certainly had the expectation that we would not just go by the usual majority, but would seek a solution within the conciliation group that is now behind the climate legislation itself. And then I would say in this connection that it is the case when you make an agreement that there is something you think is really good and there is something you think is less good. We would have liked to have reached an overall agreement without partial objectives, but the rapporteur was very concerned about this, and that is why we accepted the passage that lies there. However, can the rapporteur not understand that, now that we have the broad agreement on the climate legislation itself, we are at least left with a perhaps slightly disappointed feeling that a very exquisite majority is then chosen and, indeed, that is formally right with some quite well-chosen parties, with which this partial objective is then achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123521	I think that we know SF badly if we do not know that we often go very far in making broad agreements and are also willing to compromise in order to find solutions that we can broadly see ourselves in. However, sometimes decisions have to be taken, and negotiations can also be dragged into such a long process that a 2025 target will be decided in 2026 just suddenly. Well, there's some time in this, too; some decisions have to be made. We are then a circle of parties that chose to look each other in the eye and say: shall we do this? And now we are debating in the Assembly, because after all, it is a debate that we have here when we discuss it. And I hear that the Left also agrees with this indicative climate target as recommended by the Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123608	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123610	Well, then let's negotiate. The Danish People's Party would like to table an amendment, if we then set the indicative climate target of 50 to 51. Will Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and SF vote for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123622	Now I can see that there is a very broad majority in the Folketing at this time consisting of SF, Enhedslisten, Radicals, Social Democrats and the Left, who believe that this is the right objective, which is also recommended by the Climate Council • and therefore I think it is a very good goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123638	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123645	Thank you very much. It is so important that we now have a 2025 target inscribed in the Climate Act. We can't use a hockey stick for much. Reductions must be made on the short track, and with the 2025 target we will ensure that. The target is in line with the Climate Council recommended 2025 targets in 50-54 per cent. It is therefore a minimum target for the Radical Left that we would like to go further. The 50-54 percent. is not a linear road to 70%. in 2030 or against 100 per cent. in 2050; it is in the low end. We will radically do what we can to accelerate the green transition, and we will already be working to achieve 100 per cent climate neutrality earlier than 2050. In 2050, we want to be climate-positive, so we absorb 10% each year. of the 1990 discharges. Denmark must move as quickly as it can now be done from being part of the problem to being part of the solution. That is why we have among other things. proposed a climate contribution to air travel so that we get the development of green ptx fuels for air traffic started. Of course, we are also part of the agricultural agreement and we will kick in to be as ambitious as we can when it comes to ccs and electrification and transport. The problem is enormous, but our ability to do something about it is also growing. Just look at today's report from the Climate Council, which predicts that we can electrify even the heavy transport on the much shorter lane than we thought so far. When technology moves as much as it does, it makes extraordinary demands on us politicians. We must maintain a regulation that constantly increases the pace of the green transition. This is among other things. What we are doing with this bill as well. We have fought radically, I must say, to achieve a highly binding 2025 target, and we are happy to vote in favour of today's legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123827	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123830	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that 50-54 per cent. We have heard in this debate that there are parties that want to phase out coal more quickly, and there is a development with high gas prices, so I would really like to hear the rapporteur if we should not reopen some of the agreements already concluded, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for his excellent work on the subject of energy and industry, in which we could quickly draw conclusions which would allow us to go further and perhaps even further by 2025. So now that what we are about to adopt today is a minimum target, why not start working already tomorrow for us to go further with our CO2 so is the reopening of the agreement something that the rapporteur can see that we should be demanding in cooperation very quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123928	Thank you. We are always in favour of radical agreements, but we want to be involved in negotiating even more ambitious agreements in all areas. But we're not going to leave an agreement we've made. We have, of course, made it because we thought it was a concrete step forward. However, we should succeed, for example. We would also like to see the government and the majority taking even more ambitious action.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014123953	Now reference is made to the Climate Act and what we must try to achieve there. But for us, the key to climate change is that we have to live up to the Paris Agreement. In fact, there are now some indications that the 70-percent target is not enough. In an article today, one of the most important climate scientists has said that it is probably 78%. instead. Can the rapporteur see any opportunities for us to involve the Climate Council in re-examining whether the 70-percent target is too low so that we arrive at a higher level of ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124023	First of all, I agree with the science of nature. I do not believe that a 70-percent target by 2030 is sufficient and we would like to help set a higher target. I don't know if that's gonna happen one way or the other. Politically, at least, it is our intention to go further than just 70 per cent along the way. 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124040	Then it's Mrs. Anne Paulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124044	Thanks for a good speech. I know that the rapporteur's party is making a major effort in terms of climate policy. I think it is very positive that the parties are launching with good ideas on how to increase the climate effort. I am curious whether the rapporteur can reveal what initiatives lie in the upcoming initiative of the Radical Left which I understand will soon be ready to get to the press which will specifically deliver at the 2025 target. What are some of these initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124120	Thank you. I'm not gonna lift the veil for the whole play-out until it gets here. But I can, among other things. repeat something that we have announced to the public, namely that we are in favour of a climate contribution when it comes to flying; we will impose an extra price on every airline ticket, which must go directly to buy and develop ptx fuels; something that we believe in our proposal will save up to 1 million. t CO2 This is just one of several measures that we will be taking in time for future negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124151	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124153	Thank you for your answer. I also think it is appropriate that we look at the framework for the green conversion of air traffic, which is also part of the government's green road map that we will have next year. Is this proposal on air traffic going to contribute in 2025, or is it not until 2030 according to your plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124220	We're supposed to introduce this climate contribution as soon as possible. It comes in the first place, among other things. to contribute by raising the price of a flight quite modestly, while the very purpose, namely to boost the development of ptx, may not be able to have a significant climate effect by 2025. However, it is a climate project that lies in the consideration that I have to go beyond the 70%. already in 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124247	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124259	Thank you. Science speaks its clear language. Climate action is urgent. We're gonna do enough, and we're gonna do it now. In August, the United Nations Climate Panel report showed that over the next 10 years we will have to halve greenhouse gas emissions globally if we are to keep global warming at 1.5 degrees. In September, the UN came up with a collection on the national climate plans that shows that right now we are heading for 2.7 degrees of warming, where in 2030 we will deduce 16%. More CO2 It's going the wrong way. We must act and we must act now. With regard to the Climate Act, several people are beginning to criticise the overall objective of the Climate Act of 70% reduction in 2030, which means that it is not enough to meet the Paris Agreement's 1.5-degree warming target. What has recently emerged is that we should probably raise the target to 78%. It must be taken seriously. We must live up to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Climate Affairs to reflect on whether it is not now that we should ask the Climate Council to recalculate it and see if the starting point for the Climate Act and the 70-percent objective for it should be raised. For us, it is very crucial that the Paris Agreement should be complied with. Around this 2025 objective, we in the Enhedslisten are pleased that we, together with the other support parties, have succeeded in getting the government to raise its ambitions by 2025 to a target of 50-54 per cent. It is crucial that we, the government and the parliamentary basis, deliver at least 50-74 percentage reductions in 2025, and if we include the latest knowledge, it is probably a target that is set too low. We are voting in favour of this draft directive on the 2025 target and would like to emphasise to the government that we must have acted now. We must not only set targets in the future, but we must deliver the real reductions that it requires and deliver them quickly. For far too long, changing majorities in the Folketing have overheard the serious consequences of man-made climate change. We have known about the impact of greenhouse gases on the climate for decades, and it has become clearer and clearer how serious it is and that we have an acute problem now. I would like to commend the government for actually acting a little and doing something, but that is no longer enough; we need to do more. When you look at the financial bill that the government has delivered, it is just before that it is climate-negative, because 1.5 billion have been involved. kr. We have not, as has been said, got 1.5 billion from the sale of CO2. kr. extra revenue from sales of CO2 When I look into the fact that we have the prospect that the Treasury will save on the grant for biogas, then the support needs will probably be reduced by 3.5 billion. kr., well then we are faced with some financial law discussions where we could have some climate initiatives. And when you see in today's debate that the decommissioning of the coal-fired power plant at Nordjyllandsværk will cost about 400 million. kr., I can easily see that we can move around some money. In other words, if so much is saved on support for biogas, then we can sort of go into something where we can afford more climate negotiations. I am also listening that if we are going to look at this more quickly, well then the reopening of existing agreements is really necessary, so that we can reopen the energy and industrial agreement as soon as possible. This is the way we will be able to speed up the phasing-out of coal burning in Denmark; that is where we can go in and ask if, with these high gas prices, we could not help the industry to phase out more fossil gas faster. I think that there are some things that will have a rapid effect and that we should do. It's a little frustrating to look forward to a long time before we get a high CO2 what can we do before that? We could, for example. go in and upgrade taxes on diesel. It is unheard of that at the moment it can be seen that trucks tanker diesel just north of the Danish border and then drive to Germany and burn the diesel on the roads down there. We have some diesel taxes which are too low; they should be raised and we should keep the green cheque so that the poorest in Denmark are freed from the increased tax. However, there are some actions that we can do more quickly and that we should do more quickly also in view of the accelerating climate problems we have. So we look forward to adopting this bill and at the same time working faster to achieve more CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124803	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124806	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to start by acknowledging that the rapporteur, in today's debate too, is suggesting that we should have a higher target than the 70-percent target, and Enhedslisten also supported the Free Greens' proposal for a Climate Act 2.0, so thank you for that. I also hear the rapporteur say that we need more climate action, so I would like to ask the rapporteur how this is related to the recent agreement on agriculture with the government and many other parties, which has left out animal production. How does this relate to the desire for more climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014124855	It is indeed very positive that we have been able to land an agricultural agreement where there is a binding reduction target of 6 million. t in agriculture. It can be most easily achieved if it is the case that the number of livestock in Denmark is reduced. We have given priority to ecology in the Agriculture Agreement. If you convert the whole of agriculture into ecology, you save 4.5 million. a. The fact that we have the ecology raised from 10% to 20% is 0.5 million. This means that there are actually fewer livestock on that land, because organic farming has half as many animals as conventional agriculture has. We have also been given the opportunity to spend more than a billion. kr. to promote a more plant-based diet. When we leave that track, we go from the fact that in Denmark mainly pig feed is produced, to the fact that we focus on producing something that is climate-friendly and that is a more plant-based diet for a growing global population. So I actually think that these are some good leads in the overall agreement on agriculture. But it does not say that we have to halve the number of livestock in Denmark. It's kind of hard to get through in a broad circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125002	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125004	It is true that it is an agreement that envisages a slightly better agriculture in relation to the climate, but the Green Student Movement and many other green organisations have come out to say that if you do not have binding targets for animal production, it may not matter, because animal production accounts for 43%. of the total discharge. And that is why I simply need to understand: Are you ready in the Enhedsliste to agree to an agreement as long as it is a little better? Because in the Greens we believe that we are faced with such an urgent climate crisis that it is not just enough to deliver a little action, but that we must deliver enough action. And I know that Enhedslisten has ambitions to deliver action, and that is why I cannot reconcile it with the fact that one then entered into an agreement where the Danish People's Party was also involved, and can also see itself in that agreement. Then how can that deal be green enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125108	I certainly think it is an advantage that there is an adult ecologist from the Enhedslisten at that negotiating table when we have to implement it all. I am surprised that there were ten parties that could come to that agreement. Broad agreements may be good, but five parties would have been enough and probably better. I think that when we look into the fact that we are actually preparing a CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125142	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125151	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. Our climate rapporteur is prevented from coming today, which is why I have the pleasure of giving this speech. But we are also working hand in hand, as I am the energy and supply rapporteur. It's never a shame to stay away from a party you haven't been invited to, but to show up for a party you've been invited to, and where the party has then moved, we haven't tried before in the Conservative People's Party. We negotiated 2025 sub-targets with a • we must say some foot-to-foot government that played out with unambitious 46-50 percentage targets to 2025. A lot of agreeable parties, including the Conservatives, fought to achieve the goal realistically, but more ambitiously, and the government thought this was impossible repeatedly. So we figured out that at least 48%. was realistic, and we tried with various proposals such as: to close the Nordjyllandsværket and to raise the goal. Because we really wanted to push political rigidity, but the government held back and thought that higher targets could not be achieved. Then we could read on 6 May that the Minister on Twitter had called the support parties for negotiations, in other words in the middle of the negotiations in which all parties in the Climate Act were involved, and now in the Ministry of Finance, and then the government confirmed in its announcement on Twitter that there was now a target of 46-50 percent. In fact, that was something we wanted to do, and we think that at least we are entitled to an explanation, and it is not about process talk, but it is about the green transition that we are facing, and these climate objectives are far too important for this to be political tricks, and one prides itself on the fact that we have a broad agreement in the Climate Act. So why don't you invite in? Minimum 50% may be possible, and 54 percent. is very ambitious, but how do we achieve the goals? There are only four years left to achieve these objectives, so this is not an entirely unreasonable question, and I tried to ask the rapporteur what measures are actually needed before, and I asked again about three measures, and I had hoped that, for example, we would be able to do so. had said a power-to-x strategy. We are so much behind, even Poland has a strategy; the other countries have not used the corona crisis to sit on their hands, but on the contrary they have put together these great strategies that our industry is waiting for, and that is especially when we consider that this milestone was actually agreed before we made a climate agreement with agriculture. Perhaps we were only about half through those 70 farm meetings. So, frankly, that's a little too bad. This is politics when it's worst when it's something we all want to do. The government got our backs knuckled and doesn't really want to admit it, but defends itself and also the support parties here. As a Conservative, we therefore believe that things must be done properly. We cannot simply throw out target figures at will, the situation is simply too serious for that, and even this bill does not describe any concrete means of achieving it, and we already have a great many things to go through. You could try to calculate what it takes and how urgent it is. We have at last just started a ccs, but we can be concerned about whether we are even going to get the tonnes to be laid in 2025 at the speed at which it goes. So priorities would have been really, really nice. As Professor Peter Møllgaard, chairman of the government's independent expert body, the Climate Council, said in Information on 30 September: "We miss delivery at the 2025 target." The Climate Programme does not decide how we achieve that objective. And that is important because if we reach the 2025 target, it increases the likelihood that we can also reach the 2030 target. We still have a CO2 but we are therefore looking forward to the work of the committee where the government can present a plan to achieve the milestone so that we can join in and have discussions together. So it's more fun to be together at the party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125627	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014125633	New citizens do not support the Climate Act and the 70-percent reduction requirement by 2030. With this proposal, the government will now have an indicative 2025 target of 50-54 per cent greenhouse gas reduction. in 2025 compared to 1990 levels. As the Climate Act is a reality, the desire of New Citizens is that the reductions be made as cheaply as possible and with as little damage as possible to the professions and citizens. A demand for a given reduction in 2025 does not make this easier. It is to be expected that new technology will be continuously developed, which is why the so-called hockey stick approach is sensible, where the greatest reductions are made at the end of the period. We have just reached an agreement on agriculture and it is clear that there are technologies that need to be developed in order to achieve the agreed objective. If we force something through at an earlier stage, it will have further negative consequences for the industry. It does not make sense for Denmark to go so far ahead of all other countries. It is even without having the slightest impact on global emissions. Global emissions are increasing year by year, and it is likely to continue for some time to come. Why, then, should Denmark impose stricter requirements on itself than all others? I can't believe it. That our actions should inspire other countries to follow in our footsteps is naive. Of course, the Chinese don't care what Denmark does. The Chinese, now responsible for 30%. of global emissions, more than the EU and the United States combined and approx. 300 times the Danish emissions are still building new coal power plants, while in Denmark we are discussing meat-free days in the public kitchens. Why should Denmark reduce its emissions in all areas? When we have to go ahead of everyone else, we must in principle develop all the solutions ourselves. Why should Denmark do so? It would make more sense for us to select one or more of our strengths and bet on it with a view to global dissemination, it would have much greater impact, and then in parallel with it worked for global reduction targets. The only way to achieve global reductions of CO2 We never get poorer countries like China and India to lower their growth just to reduce CO2 Denmark's best contribution will therefore continue to be to work with the development of technological energy solutions. We're good at that. In order to do so, we must ensure Denmark's growth and prosperity. This requires that we stop with arbitrary goals for Denmark that have no beneficial effect. It is imperative that reductions in greenhouse gas emissions do not take place by dismantling or moving production abroad. L 31 is therefore another step in the wrong direction. These are short-term, populist solutions and goals with no real effect. The only positive thing to say about an indicative target is that it is indicative. But is that an indicative target? It is not according to the legal text, as far as I can see. In a new paragraph. 2 under § 1 it says: "The purpose of this law is also that Denmark should reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2025 by 50-54 per cent. in relation to the 1990 level. It sounds more like a demand than an indicative target, despite the fact that the description of the bill calls it an indicative target. New citizens cannot support L 31.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130010	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130016	Thank you. Now I hear that the rapporteur speaks very much against such targets on CO2 so I am a little puzzled that New Citizens have agreed to an agricultural agreement with a binding CO2 tonne from agriculture by 2030, when at the same time one can see that it is a little difficult for sure to say that New Citizens are some who regard these man-made climate change as something that is really man-made and that we must take seriously. So I would really like to hear why New Citizens can agree to oblige agriculture to come with CO2 tonnes by 2030; even in a span that can go up to 8 million. • a reduction of 55-65 per cent. of the total CO2 of agriculture
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130116	Well, it is certainly not with our good will, but when you make an agreement, there are usually some things you are satisfied with and some things you are less satisfied with. And we thought it was important that we were in these negotiations and were standing with the rest of the blue block to try to pull it in a direction so that it would not be as harmful as the government's proposal, and as harmful as it would have been if it were an agreement made with the red block alone. So that's why we're here. And we believe that the agreement has been considerably better than what was the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130144	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130145	Oh, yeah. But I have asked elsewhere how much difference is between the presentation made by the Social Democratic Party and what it ended up with, among other things. in relation to employment. I would really like to hear the rapporteur: what is the influence of the new citizens in the agricultural agreement text that it ended up being?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130212	We had the influence that we stood with the other blue parties. It was a strong negotiating position vis-à-vis the government, and we also had a lot moved, especially in the last few days, and indeed also on the very day of the agreement, in relation to some of the things that we have been worried about and which the blue block has been worried about all the way through, about nitrogen reductions and about funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130235	The next brief remark is to Mrs Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130240	The rapporteur says that what is happening in Denmark does not impress countries such as China and India. I think that is a funny statement in that India, for example, has chosen to enter into a green partnership with Denmark. Does it not impress the rapporteur that one of the world's largest nations chooses to cooperate with Denmark precisely because we in Denmark are so advanced in energy technology? The fact that we have come so far with the solutions that such a large, populous nation would like to learn from the Danish experience does not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130326	Yes, I think it is quite excellent that we have reached that agreement with India. It's a big step. But I do not think we can say that it is because we have a 70-percent target; it is because we have some technology they would like to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130338	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130340	The rapporteur also makes it sound as if it is a bad thing for the Danish economy and for growth and employment that we have a great focus on green conversion. Is it not contrary to the fact that we have seen that we have actually succeeded in getting quite a long way with the transformation of Danish society, while at the same time we have seen a high bnp and a high competitiveness and growth that has happened, while at the same time we have managed to convert?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130408-2	I mean, the agreements made so far are going to cost us money. That's the way it is. After all, we cannot separate things and say that because we have had growth while we have made green conversion, this means that we also get economic growth out of making further efforts. It might well be that we would have had the same growth or higher growth if we had gone another way. However, with regard to the agreement with India, of course, I think it is very satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130438	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Since I do not see rapporteurs from the Liberal Alliance or the Christian Democrats, I can see that Mr. Mr Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups, has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130454	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for a good debate. The world is on fire and we must act now. That is why, of course, there is also a need for partial targets on the road to climate neutrality. Anything else will be a hole in the head and give free rein to the very scolded hockey stick. Despite the fact that the proposal leans on the Climate Council's recommendations and demands for sub-targets of 50-54 per cent. In 2025, I am afraid that does not really change very much. I am afraid that, once again, these are just words that are not followed by action. Take e.g. the agricultural agreement that has just been concluded. It points towards better agriculture, but it does not reflect at all the level and seriousness from which we should navigate. A reduction of over 20% could have been achieved. of Denmark's total CO2 So I just have a little difficulty believing that this sub-target changes particularly much in practice. That is simply not correct, I would like to say when ministers and government rapporteurs stand on the platform of the Folketing and tell people out there, especially the young and the active, that we are halfway in line with our reductions; that we are halfway towards the goal of the 70%. in 2030, because we have talked about where the reductions are going to take place; because we have decided which technologies to invest in, which will deliver the reductions, also at a later stage. We're not halfway to reducing our CO2 It's like there's two parallel realities fighting to define reality. One is the political world, here among us, where reductions are measured in words and in paper. The second is the world around us, where reductions are measured by whether water levels rise, by how hard the drought strikes, by how many people lose their livelihoods. Nature and the climate will blow to toasts and ambitious climate goals if it does not manifest itself in concrete action. So will our children and grandchildren. Recently, everyone has seen the results of a major international study on the impact of climate change on young people's mental health. It showed that 75%. Young people find the future frightening. 40% of them do not know whether they want to bring children into the world because of climate change. If it's not a hint with a truck pole, I don't know what it is. We don't just talk, we have to act. We must put necessary, courageous and just action behind the words. I hope with all my heart that this partial objective will give more impetus to the radical transformation at all levels of our society, as both the United Nations and the global climate movement require. I am afraid, however, that my hopes will not be met. Free Greens support the proposal, although we would have liked to have had a higher milestone that obliges us to act faster and more radically. At the same time, we are calling for all the climate agreements for the various sectors that have been concluded in recent years to be renegotiated. Because, as the Green Student Movement says, the agreements are inadequate and inadequate in their present form, and it is based on utopias of technological fix, which, even in the best case scenario, do not come close to lifting the task of the green transition. Free Greens will halve animal production. We want to introduce a high uniform CO2 we want to declare a climate emergency better today than tomorrow, because Denmark can do more if we want to. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130847	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no brief comments. I can give the floor to the Minister. Welcome to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014130857	Thank you. And thank you for a lively debate, however, it was more lively in terms of what was about who was invited to which meetings when, than what was about how to save the planet. But energy is always good, so we'll bring it anyway. Let's just remember what we're talking about here. We are talking about the world's most ambitious climate law, for which we can thank each other across the political spectrum in Denmark. The vast majority of parties are involved. We need to reduce our emissions by 70%. in 2030. It's a huge task. It's so great that when we put ourselves in it, the Climate Council and other experts had to say: It's ambitious; we don't actually know how to advise you to reach the last 10 percentage points between 60 and 70 percent. It was only two years ago. Now we have passed the law and we are well in the process of implementation. We have adopted a large number of things and concluded agreements, which means that we have reached 50%. to fill the gap that we had to fill, from the time we passed the law to 2030, and that is 10 million. a. This is quite ambitious. This is among other things. And what makes us think it's realistic to say that we can reduce by between 50 and 54 percent. in 2025. It was certainly not given in advance when we made the Climate Act that it would be realistic. This will mean very large reductions, even in the short term. When it is an indicative sub-target, it hangs, among other things. together with the fact that so few years in a climate policy perspective that we are talking about here is incredibly little, and so did the Climate Council and others. That's why it's a buckle we're operating on. The 50 percent. was what we thought was realistic with known means, and the 54 per cent. was what was required if it was to be a linear reduction, and therefore the range was between 50 and 54 per cent. I think we can make it, but it's gonna be hard. Let me rephrase it: I know it looks like it, fortunately, because there is a broad majority. I just wanted to make a brief comment on the history. When it is not so strange that the process is as it is and when it is not so weird that not all the conciliation parties are involved, that is precisely the nature of this decision. Remember, when we made the Climate Act, we were also discussing whether we should have this sub-target. The Left Party was totally opposed to such a partial goal, but it was nevertheless decided as part of the compromise. There were also people who would have counted on it even when we originally made the Climate Act, but we were not near being able to agree on such a figure, and that is why the compromise was that it would be negotiated later, not as part of the conciliation, where all the conciliation parties would have to agree, but where a majority could decide it. So the wonder that's been about that process, I don't understand. As for the fact that there have not been wider negotiations, should we not, before people get too high up in the tree and use too harsh a term and with all due respect for the fact that there are rapporteurs who have been replaced etc., just park that discussion so that you can just go back and hear with your former rapporteurs in this area? I would like to send you a list of the meetings in which they took part. We have had negotiations, but we could not agree. And I would just like to remind you that it was not until Tuesday that the Left said they could support this objective. They haven't said that until Tuesday. So there hasn't been a majority. Should we, who support the 50-54 target and who have the majority in the Folketing, have said: we keep waiting for the Left, the Conservatives and the others? We couldn't. At some point, the decision had to be made. I am glad if it turns out that there is a broad majority, because we would, of course, very much like to have the bourgeois parties with us too. But the decision is not conditional on the participation of the bourgeois parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131309	Thank you, Minister. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. First it is Mrs Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131316	Thank you. I was actually going to say something else, but now the Minister is just saying that the Minister thinks it is sudden I just want to say that I am standing here with a letter from 18 May 2021 sent by the then climate rapporteur on the Left to the Minister, and I would like to read out what it says: and, as we repeatedly said in the negotiations on the 2025 target, before the government suddenly went in a different direction, we would like to support an ambitious 2025 target. We would like to support a reduction target of at least 50%. So it is simply not true that it is only now that we say that we are in favour of a 2025 target. We are just very much wondering about the process and that the government suddenly chooses to make an agreement with its support parties. But then back to my question I'll be brief. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will then arrange to invite the Left to the negotiations on the execution of the 2025 component.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131428	But what the rapporteur read there was not the objective we have proposed. We have proposed 50-54 per cent. This is an indicative measure with a range of 50-54 per cent, and the Left wouldn't do that. Incidentally, if we are going to continue with that debate, although I do not understand why it is so important, I should like to send the date when the Left and the Conservatives were called to a trilateral meeting, where we were just discussing whether you would agree to the 50-54 per cent, if you had said the 50 per cent. The answer was no. You couldn't at that time, maybe later. And the later time was then on Tuesday. We appreciate that, but it has not been announced at any time in the past, at least not to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131513	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131514	Then I am afraid that the Minister has not listened carefully to what I read, because it says at least 50%, and that is exactly what we are talking about today. When this debate is so important, it is because we think it is important that we have broad agreements on climate change. It is important for Denmark and it is important for the climate. That is why I would like to ask once again: will the Minister invite the Left to take part in specific negotiations on the achievement of this sub-objective? And finally, what does the Minister think of the Left's proposal to advance the phasing-out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværket?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131550	But there's a difference between saying at least 50%. and, as it were, between 50 and 54 per cent. The indicative sub-target is given as a range of between 50 and 54 per cent. Yes, of course the Left will be invited to negotiations. Can we guarantee that the Left will be included in an agreement? No, I'm afraid not. The Left is not included in the agreement on road transport; we would have liked that because it is a very important agreement, but you are not. To the end, there were doubts as to whether the Left was included in the agreement on agriculture. Can we guarantee that the Left will be included in all future agreements? No, of course not. We're looking at Nordjyllandsværket. I have now noted that the Left believes this is also the first time I have heard that it is a concrete proposal for this to be done. Then I also look forward to having a proposal on how it should be financed. It is not enough just to say: Råderum. You have to tell me where the money is to be taken from.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131633	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131637	Thank you, Minister. I note in particular that the Minister says that we are achieving the goal because we should just praise the Minister for that. Then there's a little confusion out there. After all, we often hear the Minister, and we actually heard the Prime Minister say at the opening debate that we are halfway in line with reducing emissions by 70%. in 2030. So there's confusion. I just want to know if the Minister can confirm that the half-way goal is not really to reduce CO2 It is just to get it in place, so we have the same premise to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131725	Yeah, if you just look at the fallout, we're longer. This is about reducing from 1990 to 2030. Today we have reduced 40%. Between 1990 and today, that is more than half of the 70%. So in the real-realised reductions, we're over half. What I am talking about and what the Prime Minister is talking about, to which the questioner refers, is the lack between the time when we adopted the Climate Act and what is then lacking in order to comply with the Climate Act. That's 20 million. t CO2 equivalents. And there we have made policy, adopted agreements, made legislation, allocated funds that ensure that we reach half that way. We have also made plans for how to reach the last half, i.e. what agreements are to be visited again, what measures we need to look at whether to tighten up and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131816	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I'm sorry. It's, of course, sir. Sikandar Siddique with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131823	We're both left-wing politicians. Okay. But then it is just an appeal by the Free Greens to all the MEPs, the government and the support parties that, when we talk about the objective and about CO2 because there is confusion, whether it is planned or whether it is a real reduction in CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131904	That depends on what we're talking about. I'm gonna have to answer what I'm being asked. I do not think that if there is something like that in the question, it can blame the government for trying to make things look better than they are, all the time that if I had talked about the realised reductions, it would look even better because we have actually reduced by 40%. of the 70%, which, as you know, is over half. But what is really interesting is the lack, that is, of what we lack, from the time we adopted the Climate Act until we reach the 70, and that is where we have now made legislation that guarantees about 10 million. a. It is probably not quite right to say that it is half, but it is when you just look at the figures, but you have to have in a parentheses that you might be better at nuanced that the last 10 million. t becomes harder than the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131954	Then it was mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014131957	Thank you. I listened to the Socialist rapporteur earlier saying that we had reached a reduction of 48.5%. Compared to the target we have here in 2025 at 50-54 per cent. So in the Enhedslisten we want to achieve our goal in cooperation with the government, and I am listening to today's debate that there might well be more subjects to reopen the agreement for industry and energy, and the process of advancing a phasing-out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværket is worth going for. The fact that we have very high gas prices at the moment could perhaps also be something that would re-evaluate something, that one can help part of the industry phase out some fossil gas and move on to electrification instead, and I know that the Minister is judged by the government's actions here in New Year. So is the minister for us to reopen that agreement before New Year's?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132057	We are still implementing the agreement we made last year. We are currently debating the part about CO2 capture, how to get CO2 It is then the second strategy, the other concrete instruments that we are going to start negotiating afterwards. So when we are on the other side of having negotiated the two things, which I am sure the rapporteur agrees with me urgently, we will also be ready to reopen the energy and industrial agreement, but it will not be realistic, however, until I stand here in the Chamber in December.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132135	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132136	I think that was a shame, because I see contours of the fact that with the high gas prices that are now, biogas subsidies are being reduced. I've read that it might be 3.5 billion. kr., we save on the support in 2022. This means that when the Minister asked just now how to finance a faster phasing out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværk, I can easily see that there is some money, we are saving somewhere that you can use some other place to promote some climate action. Can the Minister not see that there are outlines that we can do more faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132211	I am not quite sure that I am following exactly that reasoning, but I am quite sure that we will have to do more, including in the field of energy and industry, and that is also why we have presented a roadmap in which it is quite clear that we need to return to that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132229	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132253	As the Corona restrictions in society have now been phased out, we are fortunate enough that this debate on the report can take place precisely with the presentation made by the rapporteurs, and that is precisely where it is from the outset. I can say that the debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's Mrs. Annette Lind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014132316	Thank you for that, President. There is no doubt that this debate this year is quite special for Denmark. It is the case that the Minister for Nordic Cooperation, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, had the presidency last year, and this year it is Denmark that has the presidency, and that is Mr Mortensen. Bertel Haarder and myself. That is why it is a very special year for us to have this debate. I think you can put two huge headlines on the debate this year: we've all been affected by the covid-19, and then it's... the clock hasn't started over here. It was there. Thank you. It is the case that we have covid-19, which we have all been affected by, and it is also the case that we have adopted a new vision in the Nordic Council of Ministers, and there is the green transition the big one. I am very pleased that the report on Nordic co-operation is based on really strong Nordic values and communities of interest, because the Nordic community is something very special. We all know this in this Chamber, including the President, and it is the case that we have a lot in common and that we have strong cooperation to achieve the objectives we have now set, to create growth and more jobs. We also want a better environment and a safe place to live and live in the Nordic countries and across the Nordic countries. And now it is the case that we will have a debate on the subject of border barriers afterwards. There have been some challenges this year, but we are saving that for the next debate. As you know, we are lifting more in groups, and that is exactly what we are doing with Nordic co-operation. In fact, we are reaching longer together, and this is particularly important in a time of major upheaval, as has been the case for the last year and a half. I would like to thank the Minister. I think we have very good cooperation with the Minister in all the political parties. It is the case in the Nordic Council that we work very closely together to create added value for the Nordics, and I think that the cooperation we have is very fruitful. Nordic co-operation is important to us here in Denmark, it is important to all the Nordic countries, and therefore I am also looking forward to this annual debate and to discussing what is happening with the cooperation, and then reflect a little this year on how it has gone, also in relation to the work that lies ahead of us. The majority of us all know that in the past year we have in many ways stood in the sign of the covid-19 pandemic. There is certainly no doubt that we have all learned how to hold meetings on the computer, but there is also huge agreement throughout the Nordic Council and guaranteed also in the Council of Ministers that we are very much looking forward to meeting again. We will come to that in week 44, when we will receive the whole session in this Chamber, where there will be discussions with Prime Minister and where there will be debates with the Foreign Ministers and the Defence Ministers, and then we will have a very special guest in Mr Van der Klaauw's office. Jens Stoltenberg, who is the UN Secretary-General. The Nordic countries have exchanged experiences throughout the pandemic. There have been wrestlings, but we must continue to do so, and we must learn from the experience of the pandemic. We need to build on good cooperation, and then we need to strengthen cooperation in areas where there can be and where there are challenges. This is the only way we will be better equipped to help each other, even when or if there is a new crisis that hits us. We can all benefit from this. I am pleased that a report is being prepared on the Danish initiative by the Minister with his people and colleagues. It is precisely about the experience of the collaboration on the covid-19 management. This work will have to deliver concrete recommendations for the future, and a mapping of crisis preparedness and security of supply in the Nordic countries will have to be carried out. I am sure that everyone will be able to benefit from and learn from that. Covid-19 has, of course, also dominated the Kingdom of Denmark's Presidency. After all, when Denmark holds the Presidency, we have it together with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and that was how it was in the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2020. Yet, even though there was a covid-19, a visionary new action plan was adopted. After all, we all know, at least in this Chamber, the vision of the Nordic Council of Ministers to be the most integrated and most sustainable region in the world, and we look forward to working on that goal. The action plan sets a framework and provides a good basis for cooperation in the coming years. The heading of the Presidency was common to the solutions of the future. This is true in the Nordic countries, and it also applies to the Presidency, which Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands shared and had a good and close cooperation around. In the context of the action plan, a new mechanism was adopted to strengthen the involvement of civil society and, in particular, of young people, because we really need to remember them here, because we have common visions both with young people and also with the future of the Nordic Region. The action plan is based on three pillars: we have a green and a competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region. In my view, the green transition is particularly important and crucial, and it is important that we give it priority in Nordic co-operation. The Nordic Region is recognised worldwide as a guarantor of ambitious climate action and good climate solutions and sustainable sustainability interests. We must continue to do so. The power of action that we have shown in dealing with the covid-19, despite challenges, will now emerge in dealing with the climate crisis. That is why we also need to develop and strengthen Nordic cooperation in climate and environment both to make the Nordic Region even greener and to meet our own expectations and goals, which are the most ambitious in the world, but also to take the lead internationally and deliver sustainable and green solutions to other countries, and that is where we have climate partners elsewhere. Yesterday I had a meeting with the Pakistani Ambassador and there we are also working on a climate solution with them. So that's why we have to look into the world. I am pleased that in June the Nordic Council of Ministers adopted a new Arctic Cooperation Programme for the period 2022-2024, focusing on a sustainable Arctic and supporting the objective of green and economic and social sustainability in the region. And so it is the case that in the Nordic Council of Ministers we have 11 Councils of Ministers, and that is a very, very many. There is a Council of Ministers that we do not have, and it is a Council of Ministers for Transport, we have all worked for many years to get, and in Denmark we say yes to having a Council of Ministers for Transport. This is a hugely important one, because a great many of the new propellants are green, and it is precisely in the eye of our vision. We've put a lot of pressure on it to get it. Sir. Bertel Haarder and I are also currently negotiating with the President of the Nordic Council of Ministers, Mr. Thomas Blomqvist, and there we are putting strong pressure on the fact that we should have a Council of Ministers for Transport. I believe that this is absolutely essential when it comes to creating greener solutions for transport in and around the Nordic countries. The Green Agenda, of course, plays a major role, taking the lead in showing tangible, concrete results. The last thing I want to say is, and I also believe that all the other rapporteurs will say this: it is also a little about the economy. After all, we know that the economy has had major challenges in the Nordic Council of Ministers. We work very closely with the National Audit Office and keep up with the work on a new system. It takes some time, but we are confident that things are going the right way. We in the Nordic Council are looking at them very carefully, because this is absolutely necessary. It is essential that the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers cooperate more closely and that there is greater transparency both about the economy and about the budgeting process. That's why Mr. Bertel Haarder and I right now. We have seen that there are some cultural savings. We know that we have the vision of a greener Nordic region, and we fully support that, but we believe that some cultural institutions have suffered a bit this year, because we have had covid-19, and that is why we are negotiating. We are in a good process with the Nordic Minister, and so I also hope that we can get a result very quickly so that we can receive all the talented Nordic parliamentarians and ministers in week 44. And thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014133217	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and so I welcome Mr. Bertel Haarder, rapporteur for the Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014133225	I would like to sign for Mrs Annette Lind's kind remarks and thank her for the good cooperation we have in the presidency of the Nordic Council. I will use my speech to put an end to the Nordic petty state mentality. Each of us is not very big, but together are the Nordic economies comparable to those of Russia. The Nordic merchant fleets are together the largest in the world. The Nordic waters are some of the world's most trafficked and strategically important. This applies to the Baltic Sea, the North Atlantic and the vast Arctic area, which together encircle Russia's western route, with the resultant strategic importance. So the Nordic small state mentality is outdated, and it can also be dangerous. Together we are a vast and friendly great power on an equal footing, at least, with Canada and Australia. We also have some of the world's best-functioning democratic societies based on civil societies with strong cultures of association and a high degree of mutual trust, including trust in vaccines. That is why we are also the least corrupt societies in the world. No one, like Denmark and the Nordic countries, has influenced the pan-European solutions in terms of the internal market, the environment, agriculture, climate, nature and animal protection, and we can have even greater influence in the European Union if we cooperate, hold meetings and support each other where we can, including the Baltic countries. Especially Germany and the Netherlands and the Baltic States will love a stronger Nordic voice. They will love it if we help fill a part of the void that unfortunately has arisen after Britain has played itself off the rails with brexit. I can give you an example of how to work together. 18 years ago, Denmark held the Presidency. I was Denmark's first Minister for European Affairs and first-hand witnessed a very intense cooperation between Denmark and Sweden in particular. Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller and I met with Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh, who was unfortunately later tragically murdered. We agreed on the course of battle. First, the Danish Presidency put the matter forward and then it was immediately supported by the Swedish Minister, and then it was not far from there that there was general agreement that we should go that way. Enlargement became a reality, and now that I am witnessing Putin's eternal aggression and the urge to use Russian minorities as an excuse to intervene in neighbouring countries, one has to say: how amazing it was that we enlarged the European Union while we were in time. There really was a heavyweight in the EU, and Denmark had fulfilled all dreams of being surrounded all around by friendly countries in strong alliance bonds. Now we live in a butter hole and have everything we did not have during the Schleswig wars and the forced policy of permissiveness during the world wars and the Cold War. Viggo Hørup said with a certain right: What's the point? with regard to defending Denmark 120-130 years ago, and he was in a way right in that, because we had no alliances, but now we have, and that is what makes it even more obvious that now not only Denmark, but the whole of the Nordic countries join the world and assume a role that corresponds to our total weight. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement and thank him for his commitment and also for his very kind and gracious handling of the rapporteurs. The climate minister might learn a little from that, and there is so much, but at least here I should like to thank the Minister for Cooperation. There is one matter that I think we need to discuss, and that is the unhappy consensus principle. I have dug a little in the archives and found that the Director of the Nordic Council, Jan-Erik Solem, already said a dozen years ago that we have to make up for the principle of consensus, that everyone has to agree before we can move. After all, this was abandoned in the European Union because it wanted a more dynamic European Union, but in the Nordic countries it remains the case that the country that wants the least will decide the most. We are experiencing this these days, Mrs Annette Lind and I. There is a country that does not want a Council of Transport Ministers, and then it is in a state of deadlock, rather than the four countries that want it starting for themselves by the coalition of the willing. In the past, it was Denmark that did not want to cooperate in the field of transport. We had a transport minister named Ole Birk Olesen, who did not want to show up and who was simply opposed to Nordic co-operation, and there the other countries should have just left without us. So I'm not on any partisan business here. Why is more dynamism so important? It is because otherwise it will be too little. After all, Jens Otto Krag, former prime minister, called Nordic co-operation a good sleeping agent, and Margrete Auken said that when she had been in the Nordic Council for 10 years, she became a supporter of the European Union, because it went too slowly in the Nordic countries. And that's no wonder. When comparing the European Commission's 32,000 employees with the 141 employees of the Nordic Council of Ministers, anyone can imagine how Nordic co-operation stands and falls with the involvement of individual ministers. And I would like to say a few words about this under the next item on the agenda, which is border barriers, because here I really have little experience of the widely differing degrees of involvement of ministers in Nordic cooperation, which is of crucial importance because, as in the European Union, there is no device that moves on steadily and calmly, even if there are weak ministers at times. Finally, I would like to repeat what I have said so many times: when we have to find solutions, whether they are digital models or anything else, we in the Nordic countries must never wait for the European Union. We should never say: well, we are waiting for that, because there will probably be an EU solution in 3-4 years' time. We must always bet on a Nordic model, simply because it is much easier to find a model between five such similar countries, even if we take all eight with us than it is to find a model between 27 Member States with the huge difference within the EU's membership. It should be possible in virtually every field for the Nordic countries to take the lead in finding a model which then has very great opportunities to become the European model. This has happened time and time again: when we in the Nordic countries read our homework, prepare ourselves and come up with a model, it can bear to become European because we are so respected for our well-functioning society and because we have a welfare state that actually works and is respected all over the world. The opportunity to influence the European Union at a time when the British have turned their backs on us should not be wasted. You have to seize the moment when there is a window that is open. This is also what we did when we enlarged the European Union under the leadership of the Nordic countries, because it was both a Danish and a Swedish Presidency that contributed to it. We must take advantage of this opportunity when it is there, and we must also take advantage of it in the North. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134213	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is room for the next rapporteur now, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134226	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. There is no doubt with the spectacles of the Danish People's Party that the Nordic Council and the Nordic co-operation are facing a number of challenges in the years to come. On the next point, I would like to talk about something that other rapporteurs have touched on: border barriers, in particular the border barrier which has been here in the fight against pandemics. But there are also other areas where it has to be said that the Nordic Council has lost some credibility in public. In relation to many other public organisations and institutions, it should be assumed that the economy of the Nordic Council should be equally transparent. Nevertheless, accounting and financial management have taken root. It goes without saying that there is an erroneous payment of a large amount of money in which only a small part is expected to be returned. And the accounts for 2020 could only be submitted in June with the expectation that the Reichsaudit would come up with a serious criticism. In order to maintain the credibility of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, it is crucial that these matters are dealt with and that internal procedures are tightened up so that these errors do not end up being a structural problem that is stuck. The work of the Nordic Council has been marked by digital meetings since the first decommissioning in March 2020, and in my opinion we have therefore lacked the informal association and all the corridor talks that are now important and an important part of the cooperation. But yes, digital meetings have certainly not been missing, including conferences and other things. But when we look at the bottom line of Nordic co-operation, what does it really look like? What does the Nordic people get out of this quite specifically? Where is the steering tool that we can use as our pointer for achieving the many objectives we have? During the pandemic we have seen that each Nordic country was quick to work with its own restrictions and to close borders on the basis of different views. It created problems for commuters, it created problems for tourism, and it shattered the passport union, which has ensured freedom of movement in the Nordic countries since the Second World War. If you have to look at this very pessimisticly, the Nordic case may, at worst, have been put back further today than it was then, also because the people have had difficulty in seeing what the usefulness of cooperation is. If Nordic co-operation is going to be something, and if we're going to ensure it, we shouldn't have these toast speeches and events... Bertel Haarder said that it was also something others had talked about; I also think that some have called it a coffee club or a cousin-cousin party. This has to be something that is useful, and it has to be something that hits all the way into the population. I believe that, if it is to be of any use, we must at least be able to say the last thing, that is to say that we must be able to feel it in the population. We have so much in common. I myself am half Swedish, so I feel a great connection with our Nordic countries. And we must defend it, I would rather see a Nordic Union than an EU. We should not lose that, so it is my hope that we have learned from these two long closures and that we are learning from the mess of the economy. At the same time, it is crucial that we never see a repeat of the chaos that has been rife around the borders during the decommissioning and that actually bombed free movement and the Nordic passport union back to the beginning. What is the point of talking about working life, sustainable solutions, social and health policy and much else if we cannot even visit each other's countries? The Danish People's Party is pleased to note that we will have a thorough evaluation of the pandemic course and that it is planned that we will be better equipped next time. However, this requires a number of very concrete changes at the administrative level and to ensure that the governments of the Nordic countries are better able to talk at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134709	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134716	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. In this way, I agree with what was said in the speech that was made, also with regard to the relevance of the cooperation, and that it should not just be a toast talk or a cousin party. But then I actually miss a little bit and hear what it is then, beyond the border barriers, which we are discussing in a few moments that according to the Danish People's Party should be. What do you want in this cooperation? What are we supposed to be looking at together and how we can be better at? Because we agree that we must, of course, have order of accounts and administration, but if we look at the content, that is, the content that can create something for the citizens, what should it be? What's the vision?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134758	There's a lot of things. I can start with one of the cases I've taken up. It was a Danish man who was supposed to have the parental rights of his child up in Norway, and he could not get any help, either by any ministers in Denmark or any ministers in Norway, and he is now sitting with a child who is put very far back I was actually in the hospital yesterday; the daughter of 4 years. He sat up in a forest for 2 years waiting for 3 trials in the Norwegian system. Why can ministers not talk when we have a Nordic citizen who is stuck in a trap in another country? See, that was exactly something that could help the citizens. There are also many of the proposals I have taken up on which we actually agree in the Nordic Council. We all want Braille writing, i.e. Braille writing, on animal medicine, and we have then passed it on to the European Union, and it is probably stranded there. So we can agree on a lot of things in the Nordic Council, but will it move forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134856	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014134910	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for the statement, but above all thank you to good colleagues for the first rapporteur speeches here. I think they have all pointed out some very important elements of our cooperation. This is also often the case, and that is actually a little why I brought the question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that we should be careful not to stay up to the higher levels, but come down where it makes a difference and where it may also sometimes hurt a little. Because when you're a fixed club, as we are in Nordic co-operation... both in the Nordic Council and in the Nordic Council of Ministers... we also need to be able to poke each other when it hurts. That is what you do with good friends; you say things the way they are. In relation to the statement, you can go down a number of different things, but some of what I think has been very important and which we have also spent time discussing in the Nordic Council, in the committee on which I am sitting, is the whole question of equality, and in particular the issue oflgbti, where important work has been done, including on the Danish side, but where it has very quickly come to a little about some headlines about well-being and how we feel. There was then a very sharp reaction from the Faroese Government, which I think is somewhat incontrovertible. This is one of the areas where there is a member of the club who thinks it is awful that we are talking about equal rights for all citizens, and I think that we should be able to take that discussion, even when it hurts. In this respect, I think it is time that we also took the step further than just looking at the wheel and talking about doing something better, so that we can actually look at where we can also learn something from each other in the Nordic countries in the field of legislation. I am thinking in particular of intersexism, for which Iceland, for example, has very, very strong legislation. So how can we reach out to friends in cooperation and learn from them in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland etc. so that our legislation can become as good and protect real citizens as much as, for example, is being done in Iceland? The same can be said of our role in the world. There we would like to say that the Nordic Region is something special. We stand up for human rights and we have equal rights and equality. We must also dare to take this discussion more seriously internally, I think, and here I am thinking in particular of the issue of women's sexual and reproductive health and rights, where we in the Nordic Council, among other things, are concerned. have had many discussions about abortion legislation in the Nordic countries, where some countries still have some special legislation today, which I think we should dare to discuss. At any rate, I often sense there when we in the Nordic Council have discussed it about the Faroe Islands' legislation in this area, a fear of touching each other, even when it is difficult. I guess we're just gonna, uh, if we're gonna go a little bit like mr. Bertel Haarder was talking about taking our role in the world, the role of the Nordic countries in the world, seriously, in terms of what we can actually do together, so we must also dare to look inwards. When I read through this statement, it's one of the things that I hope we can get better at, i.e. looking a little inward and going to each other as the good friends we are. The last point I would like to touch on is transport, which has been touched on by several others. And in the context of the strategy, which is a little bit going on with the sustainable Nordic region, I think there is something very, very important to start with, and it is about freight transport in the Nordic region, that is, how we can have a green conversion of it. Because we have a special responsibility because we're good. That is why we must also show the way in relation to it. After all, with the Fehmarn fixed link, Denmark is now really going to be a corridor down south. So there I think we have some major and important decisions to take that must not remain with the bowl speakers, as Mrs Liselott Blixt said, but should actually lead to concrete action in relation to how we get a green freight transport in the Nordic countries. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014135327	Thank you to the SF's rapporteur for the speech here. We move on to the next rapporteur, who comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014135339	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office. I find it difficult to stand here today without first mentioning the terrible killings that have been committed in Norway, which is one of our Nordic sister countries. I am sure that all the rapporteurs share this view when I say that our thoughts and sympathy go to both the victims and the bereaved and the Norwegian people at all. In a way, the way such an attack goes at the heart of you is a very good example of how close we are to our Nordic sisters, but it may also illustrate a little what I sometimes call the Nordic paradox, so that on the one hand we all feel that there are no countries in the world we feel closer to than the Nordic countries, both historically, but also in the way of life, social structure and the whole approach to the world and life. On the other hand, we must recognise in this company that it has been difficult to develop Nordic cooperation strategically in recent years. Where cooperation with both the EU, NATO and the Arctic Council has been engines in the development of our own society too, one cannot say quite the same about Nordic co-operation, not because we have become more distant from the Nordic region, but it has not been an engine for the renewal and development of our own society. I think we should change that and I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which, I think, strikes some very good tactics. Where we see a clear potential for something where we need the Nordic Region and thus may also be able to get a little more power for the engine • These days you don't pour gasoline on an engine; you power it up and with good reason can do so, are among other things. When it comes to the Arctic. Now we will discuss defence policy and so on later, but this applies to the whole Arctic area and our interest in helping Greenland and the Faroe Islands in their development.• Sustainable development in a low-voltage area, but a low-voltage area where we take greater responsibility for our own territory and where we need more investment from both Europe and other parts of the world. There is also some specific experience in both Sweden and Norway with regard to e.g. mining. There are plenty of switching areas where I see a huge potential to strengthen Nordic co-operation for the great benefit of all parts of the kingdom community. Another area that is growing quite dramatically at the moment is the whole fishing area. There are different areas of action. All the Nordic countries have major fisheries interests, all the Nordic countries share the same sea areas to some extent, even if they have been cut off by territorial boundaries, etc. However, fishermen are moving, and so are the flows and the marine environment, and that is why having a common approach is if not a common fisheries policy, because I do not think it is possible to deal with the marine environment and the climate change that fundamentally alters the entire basic structure of our seas, including the Gulf Stream, and thus affects all the Nordic seas, is one of the things that might well be more focused on. Then, of course, I will finally mention what you might call a retirement, but we will come back to that a little later on from the border-free Nordic region in every sense, in other words that we make it easier to be together and work with each other, trade with each other and move to each other's countries. These are some of the areas that the Radical Left would find exciting to discuss further with the Minister and other good colleagues. This concludes this part of the discussion on Nordic co-operation for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014135750	Thank you for that to the radical rapporteur. Then I can welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014135808	Thank you to Martin Lidegaard for the warm thoughts to Norway. However, this is a tough situation facing us, and I think the rapporteur is right: we all agree with that. This year, in the cinemas, we have been focusing on Margrethe I and the Nordic Union in a fantastic film, in my opinion, which shows a small corner of the events that were and which led to the Nordic Union. However, it was shipwrecked, and now we have so many years after some stronger societies, which perhaps even easier than kings and warriors could empty the North together for even stronger cooperation. One could be inspired by that now that there is an opportunity in the dark to sit and look at history. Otherwise, I believe that Nordic cooperation is unique in the sense that there is no region in the world that works so closely together and that has such an easy way of working together. I do not agree with those who say it takes a long time. I think that many things are progressing smoothly when it is a democratic process that we must go through. And I do not quite think that we are suffering from consensus either. We sometimes take decisions both in the Bureau and in the sessions, without there being a majority, but it might well be that the ministers should think a little more and say that we are doing this anyway. We've had this terrible covid-19 situation where we're supposed to be sitting at our screens, and we've promised each other that the limitations that were in one way or another are going to be used for learning, and I hope there will be, and I understand that Jan-Erik Solem has got a job and is just looking at these things. I am also very pleased that our ministers were aware that it is not just Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Iceland that are working together. It is also Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and Greenland and the Faroe Islands have been well involved in our period, at least as far as the Nordic Council is concerned. After all, we say that we want to make a green competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region and that we want to be a pioneer country. In relation to the country of origin, I think that we may have to be a little self-critical sometimes, because it is such a nice word to use when we stand here and talk, but in reality it sometimes snaps because it is not free to be a pioneer country. I would also like to maintain the problems we have been in. In my opinion, this is a scandal which has been the last year and a half of accounting and financial management in the Nordic Council of Ministers and in the Culture Fund. It is a black chapter that we hope will never come back to. It started with a tough report from the Reichsaudit, and then it has been rolled, and we don't even have a complete overview of things yet, but hopefully we will. We also have major problems in making the economy work together. When an almost unanimous Bureau tells ministers that they will not vote for the budget for 2022, it is serious. At least that has not happened while I have been with the last ten years, and it is a signal to the ministers, to whom I think they are very, very foot-timing in responding. I look forward to hearing at the next Bureau meeting how far the presidency has come to find a solution to this problem. Once we have decided that there are two major areas in which we need to work, cultural cooperation and the climate, it cannot be done for free. So that is why the message to the ministers is: send more money! We can't buy a Tesla when we only have money for a used Skoda. You have to understand that if we are to deliver something in this area, we need money on the table, and that is clear money. Even during a corona crisis, there is an enormous amount of money made in our Nordic society, because very, very large activities have been maintained in all sectors. That's why it's not a problem. We are not in crisis in our society in that sense. Then I am very pleased with the review and the structure it has this time, where you take the individual Councils of Ministers one by one. I'm a little disappointed, though. Now I will not even read it out, but there are six lines on cooperation in transport: six lines! And I think that if I were a Danish teacher, I would say: this style is quite without content, but with far too many words about nothing. So it's too thin. This can be done much better, even if we do not have a Council of Ministers for Transport. This is one of the most important areas. That is where we can really do something for the climate. We have talked about night trains, we have talked about having much better cooperation, we have talked about transport on rails, we have talked about electric trucks, etc. etc. This really is an area in which we can earn something and make common use because we have an industry that can build these trucks, and even a country that can build the trains and has offered to establish night trains throughout the Nordic region and down into Europe. I think we should get this Council of Ministers in place. There is agreement on this in the Nordic Council, and we have said it several times to the ministers. I do not know whether or not we should go back to the time when the hearing ear was used, because then we could deliver one of these to each of the ministers, and then we could shout, just as loudly as we could, and then it might be that it might apologize for the language. I am pleased that the Nordic labour market is in focus on a number of issues. There must be a conference on the Factory Inspectorate, and I believe that there is a great deal of money to be made at a good working environment, both for those who suffer, but also for society as a whole. I would like to encourage you to invite the people of the Nordic Council. We enrich you very, very much with our experiences, and I think there are a lot of experiences among the people in the Nordic Council who have been close to jobs. In this way we may be able to take a little from the part of the reality where we are going. Then I think we can move on a little not only to talk about labour inspection, but also to talk broadly about social dumping and preventive work on working conditions. We have also called for crime in construction, and it is on the basis of a number of Nordic trade unions saying that there are actually criminal organisations that go in and carry out the tasks and are employers of the employees who have to do the work and that it needs to be stopped and that we need to get a lot more work done. In addition to that, action is planned in the field of violence and hate crimes, and I think that is very, very good. And then I would like to remind you that we are not in place at all with the Nordic Journalist Centre yet. It's still gone in danger. There may be some change coming, but that is not the amount needed for the Nordic Journalist Centre to survive. It is a small thing, but it is an important thing because we are reaching out to the Baltic countries and also to those in Russia who do not have such good opportunities to speak. I think it is extremely strong that we can do so, and it is also appropriate and proper that we, as a Nordic country, do so. Then I'd like to make a small mark. I think it is sad that so many pages should be read where it is all about the ministers and the Council of Ministers. There is little room left for the Nordic Council, and I think that the Nordic Council is in a very central position. What, though, would the ministers do if they did not get all the good ideas and proposals and decisions that we have chewed through over time? Then they would be poor, because then it would be the same as some of the paragraphs say: a conference has been agreed, a statement has been made, and we are considering some meetings with exchanges of experience and such things. It is a little loose, and we can go in there much more concretely and say: here is a proposal for resistance to antibiotics; here is a proposal for night trains in Europe; here is a proposal for one, the other and the third. I think the Ministers should appreciate that a little more and then involve us more than there is room for here. Then I would like to urge that next year, if we are to conduct this debate in three rounds, we should give political priority and not give priority to the way in which we first talk broadly about the subject and then talk about border barriers and defence. Try to think that we live in a time when culture and the climate in the Nordic countries are very much in place. If this debate is to be divided into three, then in my opinion it is culture and climate that must have the other two places, or we must find a completely different form. I do not know. But thank you for the floor. I hope that this could also contribute a little to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014140754	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. By looking around the Chamber, I can see that all the rapporteurs from the six parties present, out of the more than six parties of the Folketing, have spoken, and that is why I can already give the floor to the Minister for Nordic Cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014140817	This morning I woke up and thought: I look forward very much to discussing Nordic co-operation. The first news that met me was a telegram that shocked me. With horror, I, like everyone in this room, recorded the terrible incident in Kongsberg. I have been marked by it all day, and it is clear that my thoughts and my sympathy immediately went to the victims and all those affected. We also know in our Parliament what it means when a country is affected in this way. I am very pleased that today we are spending our time on, have the political discussion and have the great openness about what we want to manage Nordic co-operation, defend it and develop it further. And I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for all their comments. It is, of course, a question of me taking this as a minister in this area to what are the ministers' further Nordic discussions in terms of coinage and thinking about the vision that has been set up. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs, including those who do not have the opportunity to be here today, for one for me to see really good ongoing talk, dialogue and discussion on Nordic co-operation. I know that you, who sit in the delegation to the Nordic Council, attach a great deal of importance, energy and importance to the work. I would like to thank you for that, and I think very many of your comments here today in connection with the statement also reflect that you have deep discussions about how we do, how best we do it. I very much agree with those of you who have said that in that forum we must have the open debate and debate, because that is what we can do in the Nordic context, because there is hardly any difference between our cultures. We understand each other's irony, each other's importance and we understand the emphasis when we say things. I give very high priority to the dialogue with the Nordic Council. I expressed it, immediately then put me in the ministerial chair, and immediately I could also feel from your side what is needed. I also know that there are things you criticize. You are doing the same here from the platform today, and I really hope that together we will be able to achieve improvements in the future. At the moment, we are having budget discussions which are difficult. There are many priorities: the green, culture, education, the labour market, yes, the list is really long. After all, we are all responsible, and we also know that the funds must be used in the best possible way within what is the current framework. And what is the framework is the vision that several of you have mentioned; the action plan that was adopted last year. When I first saw it, I thought: Wow, how amazing it is to continue working in the Nordic context. We must create concrete results in the Nordic region, and the phrase that several of you have highlighted, and which I think is whether you can say what the mantra for what we want is that we will be the most sustainable and the best integrated region of all. A great many people meet me, also externally from the business community, who say: yes, we also have the opportunity to do so as a region. This is also true in relation to the many young people with whom I, fortunately, also work in conjunction with the Nordic countries. I can also see now that there are a lot of people who want to run and become youth delegates in relation to Nordic co-operation, and I am very pleased about that. And I am so pleased that the action plan places emphasis and priority on both the focus, but also the involvement of both civil society and, to a large extent, young people. And yes, the pandemic has hit. It's hit hard. The Nordic countries have acted. We've acted individually. And it has had serious consequences. But we stand where I believe and hope that the intention we have to be most sustainable and most integrated also means that we now have to sacrifice the energy and attention to getting evaluated and drawing learning out of what has been our situation throughout the pandemic. There have been things that have been bad and where the consequences have not been assessed sufficiently broadly and sufficiently thoroughly in advance. But I would also like to say that, with the background in the pandemic, I have experienced that we have stood together. I have that with ministerial colleagues. We have been seriously drawn up in our cooperation, which has also made us understand each other, and we have understood our responsibility as ministers to avert the consequences or to find solutions to them. So it hasn't just been bad. But I would say that we must learn much more than they have already said we have learned. We took an initiative from Denmark. I think it was my idea because I myself had been involved in providing information to a Nordic reporter at the time. Then I said, well, it's not a principle we should try to revive again and get a reporter. It was then Jan-Erik Soleam, who was led to try to find out what recommendations we will immediately be able to withdraw from the pandemic, in terms of how we can strengthen Nordic co-operation, when it is not if we again find ourselves in a critical situation that will affect the Nordic countries across borders. I really look forward to having the first discussion of the soleam recommendations when we reach the Nordic Council session in November I also have an enormous need from the platform to highlight the good cooperation we have had with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. During the Presidency, we have understood how we can talk closely and we can prepare ourselves together before we have ministerial meetings. I feel that this is a great mutual joy, and it is with good results. We have also achieved results in relation to the executive agency for a pool under the Arctic programme, which moves to Greenland. And then there is the great challenge that several of you have raised, namely the administration of the economy. It's been a hard nut to look at. We're not done with it yet. I would like to thank everyone for having taken a good part in this, and I would also like to say from the platform that, as a minister, I have been pleased that we have had the Danish National Audit Office which has followed and which is still following the administration of the economy. It strikes a little particularly hard in this country, as we now have the financial administration located right here at Højbro Plads. And so, once again, I would like to thank the National Audit Office for their work. We have to say that there is a serious criticism and, of course, it must be followed up. I have said this to myself and to my ministry, and I would also like to thank the Ministry, because there has been a clear focus on finding solutions here and that time should not be abused, also on the basis that exactly the root of the administration and the economy is not at all suited to a Nordic culture. So we're going to follow up on that and I hope we'll find a whole other good ride quickly. I look forward very much to the month of November, because it will be great when we have to put the house and premises for the Nordic Council session, and I would also like to say to everyone who is preparing for it that I wish you luck in that work, because I believe that the setting of a good framework and a good atmosphere about it will mean a lot to our execution of it. I have said that the action plan we adopted last year has the right focus points. It has the right values in it. And I also hope and believe that, having let go of the pandemic as well as we have in the Nordic countries, we will also be able to use our energy to follow up the good tracks of the action plan. I have already said that I am happy to do so here today too, that a Council of Ministers, in relation to transport, which several of you have mentioned, with Danish eyes, makes very good sense. We will be discussing this further. And I also agree with those who have said in the rapporteur's circle that we must cooperate exactly on the experience, including from the Nordic Council and into the Nordic Council of Ministers. And the fact that priority has been given to cases and that we have argued why it is good, yes, of course we must do so, and I think we do too. Now I know that the pandemic has taken a great deal of energy, but we must of course have a great deal of sensitivity in the Council of Ministers, in relation to what you are discussing and making proposals for in the Nordic Council. Then there is the concept that I like in many ways, because it makes you have to think a little behind it, and that is it, sir. Bertel Haarder brings forward small-state mentality. I believe that all of us who are committed to Nordic co-operation should look beyond that, and then we should try to calculate and add together, and then we should try to see what value it could have if we had an even better integration of the Nordic countries. In my second area of ministerial work, which is development cooperation, I see, all the time, and again, how it works when Nordic countries talk together and repeat what one country has said into the major contexts, such as the United Nations or the World Bank. I can feel the effect it has there and the extent to which it is being listened. There is also the picture of how things stand and stand in the Baltic countries. It wasn't many days ago a week ago exactly, I think I was in Lithuania. And when you are in the Baltic countries, you sense their very great focus on the Nordic countries. I was there because it was the hundredth anniversary of Lithuanian-Danish diplomatic cooperation. It was marked and it was of great importance in Lithuania. Have we lost credibility in relation to Nordic cooperation in connection with the pandemic? Actually, I don't think we do. It's not my picture, but we've been shredded in. We have found out that we may not have been timely. And I have to say that many experiences are being gained, and some of the best experiences I have had have reaped at a very, very personal level in relation to my Nordic ministerial colleagues. That is why it is at least a learning experience for me, and I hope that subsequent governments will also accept this, namely that having Nordic ministers' telephone numbers encoded on their mobile phones and that you can get in touch with each other in a split second so that you can explain or dedramatize or ask for advice, because I think that is of great importance. We need to learn from the pandemic, we really do. It was also said by you good rapporteurs that we should go to each other. This is what we need to do in this debate, and we need to do so in our daily meeting and in our daily discussion about Nordic co-operation, as well as in the Nordic Council. I'd like to wish you guys good luck with that. Are there paradoxes and are we too little strategic in Nordic co-operation? Yeah, I guess we are. But the world is changing, and I believe that this change is increasingly suggesting that, in the context of the Nordic Council of Ministers and in the context of the Nordic Council, we also know which agendas are becoming more and more important to us, and we must, of course, focus on them. Thank you for all the contributions to the debate on the statement here, and now there is time for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142234	That's right. Thank you, Minister. There's a single person who's been pushing in, and that's Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142242	Thank you. I agree with that idea of small state, and we could do a lot of common things, for example. in the Arctic, but we often find that the government says no, we should try to look at the United States before we do anything. And the United States, Russia and China have a rivalry going on about who should decide, and there it could be the North. We have the best principles and we have the Ilulissat Declaration, so that is where we could take the lead. The second question I would like to ask is whether the Faroe Islands have asked on several occasions to become a full member of the Nordic Council. Now, of course, solutions are being sought within the Kingdom community, so that they also have to interfere in foreign policy and so on, even if this is not possible formally, and that was certainly not possible ten years ago. Could we not find a shortcut so that we could say to the Faroe Islands and Greenland that of course you can be independent members of the Nordic Council, even if you do not have full national independence yet?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142335	Thank you very much, sir. Christian Juhl for the questions. I actually concluded my comment by saying that I believe that in Nordic co-operation we are becoming more and more wise about how the world changes and what becomes essential. It must still be my answer, including to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl's first question in relation to the great powers. Because I see that we are becoming more and more aware, both here in the Parliamentary Assembly, of the geopolitical conditions which are under pressure and in which the Arctic is giving rise to a great deal of interest, both at national level and also in the cooperation forums that we have, including in the Nordic context. Actually, I'm really glad that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl mentions the Ilulissat agreement, for it must and must be of great interest in the future too. In relation to the Faroese desire to get closer and to have an independent role and membership of the Nordic Council of Ministers, I have to say that we have certainly returned to this many times. And when sir... Christian Juhl asks whether there is a shortcut around the Constitution and the Helsinki Treaty, so I have to say that I do not think there is a shortcut. That's too bad, of course. It says, of course, that there are other things, and here we must seize the opportunity to try to find some other ways of strengthening the role of the Faroe Islands in the Nordic context.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142517	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142518	Now I don't think we need to be afraid of the Constitution. The Constitution we have discussed so many times, and there is good rubber band in it, so I'm not afraid of it. But that is the basis of the Nordic Council that we need to look at, and that is why I think we should try to reconsider it, because it could also be that there was rubber band in it when we see that we need as many people as possible to join in. Sir. Bertel Haarder said in his speech that we must always think Nordic, among other things. because it is difficult to think the European Union on all issues. That is also what I am appealing to. I do not think that we should decide today that we should have a Nordic Union, and certainly not the model that Margrethe I proposed, but we must have stronger cooperation, and a Nordic Union could well be a vision in the longer term when the world is changing as much as now. That is why I am also saying the same thing with the United States and the rivalry of power. Because it is unbearable to look at when we have an opportunity to be great power together in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142619	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. I really want to look at the audience rows. There are a lot of young people at the moment, and what we are discussing is Nordic co-operation. I'm gonna appeal to you, just like sir. Christian Juhl says, for there has been an amazing new, big film, which is about Nordic co-operation back in the Middle Ages. I wish it became a permanent curriculum, because it will give a great deal of understanding about how the Nordic Region has developed and what the Nordic Region stands on today. So perhaps you should go to the cinema tonight and watch it, while it is still a new big film, actually the most expensive Danish film ever produced, with the support of the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142704	Thank you, Minister. I consider it an invitation. I think the minister invited you to the movies, it could be. There are no further brief comments to the Minister on this point, which is why we can go to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142725	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Annette Lind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014142733	Thank you for that, President, but I should like to remember another time that, if you do not want to answer the question, you can go to the audience and then you can say that you want to go to the cinema. At least I think a lot of us would like that instead of sitting here all night. Otherwise, I should welcome that too in the last debate from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Unfortunately, he is prevented from being here because he is attending debates and taking part in Arctic Circle in Reykjavik, and he is very sorry that he cannot be here, but he has asked me to sign for the cooperation with the Minister and for these conditions in general and in particular that we can now take this extraordinary statement on border barriers from the Minister for Nordic Cooperation. Because what we are going to have now is precisely that we are going to have a debate which is an extraordinary debate this year, namely a debate on border barriers, and there is no doubt that, when we have it as a separate debate this year, it is also because Mr. Bertel Haarder has been chairman of the Border Obstacle Council last year, and he is now a member of the Council as the Danish representative, and he is doing it right, very well in terms of fighting for the border barriers that may arise to be resolved. It is the case that we all know very well that in the Nordic countries we have dealt with covid-19 differently. In some countries in Denmark and Norway we have done the same, or at least almost the same, and Sweden has had a completely different strategy, and there is no doubt that we have experienced some border barriers with the covid-19, which we have not seen in very, very many years, precisely this because the borders have been closed both for commuters, but also for people who generally want to cross the border, especially Danes who have a summer house or a desert farm in Sweden, and there has been a actually very tough debate between Norway and Sweden about the border up there that has been created by the covid-19 pandemic. It is indeed the case that not only in some countries, but in all countries, we have in fact introduced travel restrictions which have challenged mobility in the Nordic countries, and that is why we have benefited greatly from the fact that we have been able to talk very well, and I know that the Minister often and often says that he is answering the phone and calling his colleagues and working very well with them. It is also true that when we talk about border barriers, it is precisely here about free movement that is important for all of us citizens who live in the Nordic countries. The work on border barriers is precisely the work on creating a more open Nordic region. We should preferably be able to move, commute, study and operate across borders, no matter where in the Nordic countries we live, without risking ending up in a grey area or being hindered by unclear laws and regulations. Many of the rules and many of the border barriers are in the area of taxation, so perhaps the tax minister should also have sat here. Because precisely the technical aspects of taxation are one of the things that make border barriers more difficult to resolve. One of the things that is that we have an integrated region across Øresund, and it is of course both for the benefit of Denmark and Sweden, and both employees and employers in the region have suffered from this, and there have been initiatives that have been very different. The pandemic has revealed a need for increased coordination, both in pandemic and crisis interventions, and our response must be more Nordic integration and coordination, and I very much hope that, if such a situation arises again here, we may have better answers in advance. One of the technical things that has been, is that if you were a Dane and you had a Swedish employer and you normally worked in and commuted to Sweden and you could work at home in Denmark in connection with covid-19, then you were not taxed by it, while the reverse was the case if you were a Swede and worked in Denmark, but had to work at home because of covid-19. It was just one of those things that might have been solved a little better and a little faster. Otherwise, we very much want to work to ensure that we have the same building rules in the Nordic countries. In fact, we have been working on this for a very long time, and now I could tell a small anecdote that we have had a consultation at a time with the same minister as Mr. Bertel Haarder spoke about in the previous debate, and I have no doubt that he clearly understood what was said by Mr Haarder. Bertel Haarder's side compared to this. Because it was precisely Denmark that opposed us having these common building standards, and of course we could not be familiar with that. Now it is the case that things have gotten much better, and now that you have to build, wherever you build, you have to know exactly what you're dealing with. Otherwise, border barriers rarely arise out of malicious will and, on the other hand, often arise because countries adopt legislation without considering the Nordic perspective. So I would just like to urge the Minister and all the other ministers in our government, but also in all the other Nordic governments, that every time you make a law you should try to think about what it has to do with border barriers for the other Nordic countries, think about the Nordic perspective. Because if we want to be the most integrated and sustainable part of the world, we need to look at our own national legislation, and then the work of the Nordic Council is not enough. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister for focusing on removing new border barriers before they arise and call for us in the Folketing to be even better at assessing new legislation from a Nordic perspective too. I am just looking forward to having this discussion with the Prime Ministers and with the Ministers of the Nordic Council during the session, because it is precisely the case that all parliamentarians in the Council have the opportunity to discuss these issues, and I am quite sure that there will be talk about border barriers. Because if you want to be more integrated, you have to be more Nordic, you have to think more Nordic, that is the only way to be most integrated. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014143402	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone else wishing to make brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014143411	Thank you. I would like to thank Mrs Annette Lind for the final call for us, when we legislate, to be aware of whether this creates problems in relation to the legislation of other Nordic countries. I think we should talk to the Justice Minister about that. In 2014, when we negotiated border barriers in this House, we could not get the then Minister of Justice to promise to mention in comments whether there are problems in relation to the Nordic countries, despite the fact that it is quite natural to mention problems with the European Union. So thank you for that remark. I think we should follow it up. It is indeed the case that Danish ministers can, if they want to, because if the minister is committed and has good top officials, something happens, but otherwise nothing happens. This is my experience after working on border barriers for several years now. And I apologize for mentioning names, but I would like to congratulate the Minister for Home Affairs and Social Affairs, Astrid Krag, for her reaction, as commuters in the coronatide could not receive social benefits when they worked at home. Very quickly we got an answer that was positive. The same cannot be said of the tax minister, who had a completely similar problem with commuters who had to work at home and then had to pay tax in two places. It's not solved yet. And the problem of the new Swedish registration obligation for Danish employers who have Swedish employees working at home is not solved either, although we in the delegation to the Nordic Council have had a consultation with the tax minister. It is possible that there are reasons why nothing is happening in the tax minister's area, but I am not sure about that. I believe that personal will and personal commitment play a role. So, as I mentioned earlier, this is not party politics, because one of the most sluggish ministers I have ever seen is former Minister Ole Birk Olesen, whom I mentioned, who would not even attend Transport Ministers' meetings in Stockholm. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Business Simon Kollerup. He replied positively and has willingly done what he could to enable a national social security number and employment contract to set up a bank account in another Nordic country. It's just supposed to be missing. It is absolutely appalling that we have not been able to do so, but it is something that is on the way and he was very constructive. On the other hand, I must say that his colleague, the Minister for Health, Magnus Heunicke, has not been so constructive in opening up the possibility of Swedish so-su assistants covering part of the huge deficit we have in Denmark on exactly so-su assistants. According to the latest inventory, in Denmark as a whole, almost half of all posts posted are not filled, and in Copenhagen it is 60%. of all listings looking for sosu assistants or sosu assistants who remain unoccupied. At the same time, Malmö has a 14 per cent unemployment rate. Then you have to hear SF's health mayor justify it by saying that sosu assistants and assistants cannot afford to live in Copenhagen. Well, they can afford to live in Malmö and Skåne, so that's another argument for trying to pick up the missing ones on the other side of the Sound. When we lack labour on the other hand, while there is unemployment on the other hand, as there is now, with an unemployment rate of 14 per cent. in Malmö, it is to the mutual benefit that we can make it easier to take jobs across the border. I had that experience before I became Minister for Health, where I asked for a meeting with the previous Minister for Health to gain access for Swedish sosu assistants and assistants, and he sat with his guard of officials who explained why things were as they were, and they were absolutely right about that. But there was no desire for change. Then I happened to be the minister of health myself, and then I said to the same officials: could I not get one, two or three possible solutions to that problem? And that's what I got, and the problem was solved. We opened up, and there was no criticism from the FOA, although one might have feared it, and that was enough because the FOA could see the sense of it. After I had resigned as Minister of Health, it was closed again, and it is still closed. I don't understand. I use it as an example of how border barriers stand and fall with the commitment of individual ministers. If there is something that one cannot resolve as a minister, one can engage in a dialogue with the minister of the other country or the ministers of the other countries, bring it up in the Council of Ministers, then one can find a solution, or at least one can find an explanation of why it is not possible to find a solution. During the previous item on the agenda, I mentioned the fact that the European Union has 32,000 to help itself when you are a minister, namely the huge apparatus of the European Commission. In the Nordic region there are only 141 employees in the Nordic House, located just opposite Christiansborg Castle Church. This means that it is the Minister himself and the Minister's officials who have to solve the problems. There is no apparatus for this and that is why the commitment of the ministers is so crucial. Progress has been made in several areas. It is incredibly nice to work with a Nordic-Baltic ID system, NOBID, i.e. a common identification system so that you can use your personal numbers and prescriptions etc. in other Nordic countries, and hopefully also soon you can pay with MobilePay. It is unthinkable to imagine a future Nordic region where we hardly use notes and coins without being able to pay with MobilePay in another Nordic country. And it is also crucial for the Nordic sense of co-existence that we have easier access to each other's television broadcasts and much like with lightning texting, i.e. simultaneous texting. You can do that anywhere else in the world, and so must we. On this point too, I would like to say that we should never wait for the European Union, because it is easier to find a solution between the Nordic countries than between the 27 very different EU countries. I would also like to thank the Minister for this statement. It gives a very good overview of the obstacles to border controls which are being dealt with in the Border Prevention Council. I really think that the Minister could praise himself and his own government, because it has actually been resolved, this with a coordinating number for Danes and Norwegian summerhouse owners in Sweden, who have been tormented by the fact that they could not even have the same opportunity for telephone subscriptions and bank accounts etc. like other citizens. But now it helps, and thank you for that. And I also hope that roaming charges will be abolished quickly. It is, of course, partly a private tax, but on that point too, the Minister for Industry has actually been quite so inclined, and I hope he will follow up. Because the fact that you pay high roaming charges between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland when you have to telephone is totally unsustainable. Thank you for mentioning professional qualifications, which we must recognise across borders, differences in building rules that increase construction, geoblocking public media, and then, unfortunately, we cannot get a Transport Council yet, but I think we in the Nordic Council will continue to press for that. The digital tools as part of communication with the public sector are a very, very important matter, like work practices across borders, the taxation of cultural workers and all the other points that are quite rightly mentioned. Then, for once, I have not mentioned the covid-19-harassments against the citizens of other countries. I could have given a whole talk about that. The aim here must be to agree in a few weeks' time in this Chamber with the Prime Ministers that from now on we must help each other instead of harassing each other's citizens, and we must stop closing borders. We must close cities and regions and schools if there is infection, but we must not close the border all the way through, as has happened between Norway and Sweden, where Swedish employees could not receive wages or benefits for a longer period until the prime ministers finally found a way to talk to each other. It's embarrassing! We need a response for how to deal with the next pandemic, the next crisis, better than we have done. I think we can, and there is reason for optimism. I look forward to the session in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014144543	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. There are no brief comments, which is why it is now Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014144557	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement on border barriers in the Nordic countries. In the Danish People's Party we share the view that there is reason to place a special focus on border barriers in the Nordic region in the wake of the Coronapandemic, which, during two long shut-downs, has hindered the freedom of movement which is, of course, the basis of the whole idea behind Nordic co-operation. In the Danish People's Party and in our group in the Nordic Council we therefore attach particular importance to the preventive aspect in relation to future crises of an epidemic nature, and we have put forward proposals to the Nordic Council of Ministers that a crisis response should be established in the Nordic countries at Prime Minister level and thus the highest possible level. We are doing this in order to emphasise that the fight against the epidemic should be given our greatest attention so that we can avoid as far as possible the border closures which have been a major difficulty for commuters across borders in the Nordic countries and locally here in Denmark to the detriment of integration in the Øresund region. We respect any Nordic country which, as a starting point, has the right to carry out its own strategies to combat pandemics, but we need to ensure that the closure of borders does not come as a thief at night without any prior notice, as it does, for example. happened when Sweden closed its border against Denmark 2 days before Christmas and thus effectively reduced the possibility of getting to and from Bornholm. In the Danish People's Party we can support the other measures to remove border barriers. Harmonisation of differences in building rules for the benefit of the green transition is important and it is essential for cross-border language understanding, especially in the Scandinavian-speaking part of the Nordic Region, that we have free access to each other's public service content. The issue is complex and deals with, among other things, the following: copyright, but in our view it will be an honour for the Nordic countries to show that we are capable of what is too complex within the European Union. We in the Danish People's Party have the same positive starting point for the other measures in the field of border prevention. They have it in common that they should make it easier for citizens in the Nordic countries to work and work across borders. Yes, most of all we saw from the outset that it is irrelevant which Nordic country you choose to stay in when it comes to fulfilling the wishes and dreams of the individual citizen. In particular, we also stress that cross-border authorities should be much better able to exchange information and learn from each other's experiences. This is true, for example. legislation which must be harmonised as far as possible when it comes to the processing of data, but still with respect for the decisions taken in each of the Nordic countries. Finally, we in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that the Danish Agency for Patient Safety reports that Swedish and Norwegian applicants for vacancies in the health sector have the opportunity to make up for differences in educational background and thus to apply for job vacancies in this country. It is no secret that many Danish municipalities have problems with the recruitment of nursing staff, and that many municipalities with these problems are within commuting distance of Scania. We welcome the efforts of Swedish staff and we would like to see this extended even further. All in all, we in the Danish People's Party think that we are already well on our way, and we look forward to a physical summit in the Nordic Council during the Danish Presidency being possible here in early November. We've learned to live with digital meetings, but we're looking forward to this corridor talk coming again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014144958	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014145010	Thank you. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for a very thorough statement on border barriers. It should be so easy simply to say that we do not want any border barriers and that we want an open Nordic region, but as the statement so clearly shows, it is also very complex. I am actually happy to read all the way through the statement that you are constantly trying to look at solutions to the challenges. And what I think should be the approach to this is that we are constantly looking at solutions quickly. One thing is all you can foresee in advance, another is what you cannot foresee, but which then arises, and there must be a desire for solutions quickly, as Mr. Bertel Haarder spoke in his speech. Because we have really been able to learn something from the whole decommissioning process in connection with the covid-19 and, above all, that sometimes it has been possible to resolve something very quickly, and other things have obviously been somewhat more difficult. And I really think there should be a thorough evaluation of this among the ministers to find out what we can actually do about these things quickly and easily, so that we can move forward and remove the barriers to borders. We have discussed this here about geoblocking, all the content, and what is so much easier in the Nordic countries than at EU level is that we have systems similar to each other when it comes to copyright. We can understand each other's languages, we have systems that are similar to each other, and therefore we must also be able to resolve it considerably faster than what we can at EU level, although I look forward to the EU level also being included. So I would like to say quite briefly that it is a sensible and very thorough review that is here, but let us now learn from the times when we are actually succeeding in being agile and getting quickly converted. And now let's remember that we have some systems that are similar to each other, so let's go into the solutions instead of sitting and looking out at each other, compared to what is of obstacles.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014145220	Thank you to the rapporteur. This means that we are now moving on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014145230	Thank you very much, President. Following on from several other rapporteurs, I would like to say that we have a great desire to make it as easy as possible for all Nordic citizens to travel in the Nordic region. And we've had two big bumps on our way over the last 5-10 years. We only had the refugee crisis in 2015, when we closed the Øresund bridge both ways, and it has been slow to get it up, although it has to be said that the flow of refugees is virtually non-existent now. And then, on top of that, we have got the Corona crisis, which also legitimately made it necessary, at least for a transition, to be more restrictive with entry. I can say this quite simply: from a radical point of view, we will support every effort to reopen all these borders and make it easier for all Nordic citizens to move freely. We think this is good for everyone, including the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014145322	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014145337	When I arrived in the Danish Parliament and thus also in the Nordic Council a few years ago, I thought why does this Leftman at my own age talk so much about border prevention work in the Nordic Region? It's sir. Bertel Haarder, I'm thinking. I was thinking, is it because he needs a platform to talk about something or what? For we have had free travel around the Nordic countries, and I have happily drove on my old Nimbus in both Norway and Sweden and around where I almost wanted to, and I had never encountered any obstacles in those countries. But it is not enough simply to travel in the North, as Mr. Lidegaard said. There are also some who work and live in the North; some who get sick in the North. There are some who in many ways are Some marry in the Nordics, some die in the Nordics etc. But I have become wiser, I would say, and I think that for me it has become a very positive and important word, that is to say, that and then the other concept that we often use, namely: does it make Nordic use? These are two good tools that I think should be used when working with Nordic conditions. And I'd like to thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder for that, because I think he's been the driving force for all the years I've been in this. I say this because he himself also pointed out that fire-souls were needed to make change happen, and I think he has been so much in this context. As chairman of the South Schleswig Committee, I have tried a little the same down in the border area between Germany and Denmark. And I'll say that that was completely, completely different. Our administrative practices and our parliamentary tradition, our culture and our way of looking at the task are enormously different. I don't know why it's like that, but it is. And that means that when we talk about pensions, taxes, wages and everything else for those who work on both sides of the Danish-German border, it is enormously much more complicated than here. It is not always enough for us to have a minister who simply says that I have the spirit, and I have the desire, when the systems simply do not talk and simply not, what to say, can play properly together. But that does not mean that we should not also be working on these things in relation to the Danish-German border. This document is a good summary of some of the things that have been done along the way. I think that there are a great many things that have been initiated, and we regularly hear about these initiatives in the Nordic Council. I think we have to say that the task has come to stay, as new tasks are constantly emerging when countries do not coordinate legislation. I sat down here in the hall yesterday afternoon. There came a proposal, a so-called pile proposal, with an incredible lot of things, but one of the small things was that you will now make it harder for young Swedes to get Danish citizenship. Well, at least I was annoyed by the fact that sir... Bertel Haarder wasn't down here, because then he would have gone up to ask for the floor, I'm quite sure. However, it is strange that one day we should be praising ourselves because we manage to remove border barriers, and then the next day some of our colleagues sit down and create new border barriers. One would almost think that we cannot make time pass and have to create work for each other, but that is not the case. So I think it is absolutely right, in other words, to demand that we consider ourselves, both the Minister and the rest of us, when we propose that we tighten up one place and the other. The reason it was tightened yesterday or is being tightened is because some people think that there should be even more control over people who were not born in the Nordic countries, and therefore we should have a new tightening in this area. I do not want to repeat my talk about the Nordic Union, but I think we should try to see where there is scope for joint decisions and then we should take them. Where Margrethe you put his armored men on their horses with swords, of course we use our finger instead of when we vote, and that is where we can make a difference. There, of course, we can deliver a great many things from the Nordic Council, as I said to the ministers in the first round. The absolute monarchy has been abolished and democracy has been established, so I would like to appeal to us to have as good a conversation as possible with the ministers. We need that to get on with this work. But thank you to all those who work hard at it in the Nordic Council, because I think it is one of the most important things we can think of when ordinary people need to take a little interest in what we do in the Nordic Council. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014145900	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, I would like to invite the Minister for Nordic Cooperation to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014145911	Thank you, President. It is a pleasure to be with the rapporteurs in this Chamber and to discuss border barriers within the Nordic countries. A short time ago I was at a meeting with the Border Obstacle Council and there was a discussion about the possibility and perhaps the desire to change the name of the Border Obstacle Council, to which I said that I thought this was a bad idea in itself, because I think the name Border Obstacle Council tells us that here is something that is undesirable; it thought that the word Border Obstacle Council was too negative. However, I think that today's debate makes it very clear that there are things that the rapporteurs do not think are working well enough, and that is why I really think it is a pity and a shame to change it into something more positive as long as border barriers remain. And as Mr. Christian Juhl just said it in his final replica here, the task has come to stay. I'll try and work against it, sir. Christian Juhl. I would very much like to see many of these obstacles taken into account, because in the intention I fully agree with the rapporteurs that in the Nordic countries we would like to have this fantastic integration, and since it is now an entirely independent objective, including in our vision and action plan, efforts must be made to prevent border barriers, in other words, to take hold with them. Welcome to all the young people in the audience. We are discussing Nordic co-operation and how to make it work even better. You can learn more about that. I very much agree with the rapporteurs that mobility is essential for the very vision I am mentioning and for the cohesion of the Nordic region to really have the value and the opportunity that we are talking about and for which we are fighting. We need to work with both the broader agendas such as digitisation, but also with very concrete obstacles, and I think that, in fact, our debate here today has done the same. I have to mention Mr. Bertel Haarder and the Border Obstacle Council. A really good job is being done, and I can actually understand that there are a few things that seem to be a little uphill in the Border Prevention Council, but I would like to pay tribute to Mr Beazley. Bertel Haarder for his long experience and insight in this area too to actually provide a very fine perspective of success and other things remaining, and also to make very concrete proposals as to what it is like for us to be able to seize the concrete work in it. It is the case that the Border Prevention Council must be given a new mandate here in a short space of time, and there is my view, and that is also what I am saying here, that we must ensure that it is strengthened, and we must also strengthen the joint work on the sectors of problem demarcation and solutions, and we must also work separately on border barriers within the national community. When I was appointed minister, the resort, which was otherwise over in the Prime Minister's Office, was transferred to my shoulders and my ministry, and this is a task that I also take very, very seriously in the same way as border barriers in Nordic co-operation. Then, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, we must learn from the pandemic. We in the Nordic Council of Ministers, and in particular I am very much looking forward to discussing Jan-Erik Solem's report at the Nordic Council session in November. We have set him up as rapporteur to make recommendations that are concrete, simple and that will be easy to understand. In addition, we will have the opportunity to discuss the consequences of the corona at a conference to be held in the Faroe Islands on 25 November. It will also be really interesting, and it is also a question of, and clarification of, how important we think it is that, where we now stand in relation to the pandemic, we put pressure and energy into learning as much from it as possible. I have launched a cooperation agenda with my Swedish colleague, Mrs Anna Hallberg, in relation to mobility. That is actually what I said, too, that several of the rapporteurs have mentioned: how important mobility is and that we must exploit the potential that exists across national borders, also in relation to the labour market. I would just like to stick to the agenda on the border between Sweden and Denmark and across borders in general in relation to the pandemic, because we know that, in the interests of public health, all the Nordic countries have had to introduce measures to limit the spread of infection. It has been said on the part of many that the road was paved as one moved along it. There was a lot of unknown land compared to the pandemic. We also saw the Nordic countries choose very different strategies, but all countries in the Nordic countries have had to impose travel restrictions along the way that have affected mobility. I must say that as a minister I appreciate the fact that we in the Nordic countries have had an ongoing dialogue on travel restrictions. I also know that the criticism rises and says that it was often not timely, that it came too late, but I must also say that the government has tried to take into account the border country as much as possible in the whole of this operation, both the one and the other and the third border country, among other things. by having a more flexible set of rules for people who live and work in border regions and who have organised their lives across borders. Fortunately, we have now also reached a place where it has become easier to travel between the Nordic countries, and that is really, really pleasing, although unfortunately we cannot say that we have returned to normal. But it is as important as several of you have mentioned, and as I also make clear, that we are really learning from the experience, and so there is a very broad consensus on this in the Nordic countries. That is also why we have initiated greater analysis work. This is done many times nationally, but in relation to the border barriers, it is only very important that we do so across and in an integrated Nordic context, in order to strengthen Nordic cooperation in crisis situations in the future. We have a very special situation between Denmark and Sweden, as several rapporteurs have said, and I fully agree. Bornholm has proved to be particularly vulnerable when there are travel restrictions between Denmark and Sweden. The other way back, it has been found that southern Sweden is very vulnerable when they cannot get to Copenhagen Airport. It is South Sweden's way out into the world, which is why I am also very pleased that a working group has already been set up and they have already held their first meeting to look at the possibilities of transit exactly in relation to that issue. Then a very special border barrier was mentioned about social and health assistants. There are several of us in this Chamber today who have worked very hard on health, and I just have to repeat that we have been in many situations here too, where qualifications, when health professionals come from one country and have to work in another, have not been harmonised, and this has sometimes affected patient safety. Therefore, what lies in the challenge of social and health assistants is that it is an approved education in Denmark, and it offers some opportunities to administer medicine and other things. It is clear, of course, that there can be some obstacles if you have the same job description in two different countries, but where there are two very different professional skills behind their courses. But you can come, and you can work, as long as there is an agreement between the parties, that is, the employer and the worker. I would like to give a slightly loose reflection on some of the reports from the rapporteur. It has been said that it must be possible for us in this Parliament to have a greater focus on what is the legislative work and what negative implication or positive implication it can have in relation to our neighbouring countries in the Nordic region. I think it is interesting to work forward, and it is clear that if a larger part of the Folketing here will always have a consciousness in their political DNA, when they make politics, you will catch some things, but I am also very aware of what several of the rapporteurs have said about the fact that it may be that we should try to look at an unbureaucratic automatism in having reversed whether it may have negative consequences for Nordic co-operation. In view of the fact that it has been mentioned that borders have been closed, I have to say that misunderstandings have also crept into the way the pandemic has been. It has also been said that the Øresund Bridge has been closed. No, it hasn't. The Øresund Bridge has not been closed, but restrictions have been imposed. I am simply saying this in order that we should learn from the fact that our choice of words should not make the situation worse than it has been. We must deal objectively and objectively with what has been the situation, and I must also say as Minister that I fear that we will have new and similar situations, and that is also why we in the government are calling for the right to say that we cannot ensure that there will be no closure between countries in the future. It is still a matter of protecting, in this case it was public health. In other situations, it may be feared that this is a matter of safety in a different context. Nothing has been done to harass each other. This is certainly the discussion I have had with my Nordic ministerial colleagues, but I agree with you on what you, as rapporteurs, are saying. We must learn from what is the situation. We must live up to what is our purpose and our vision: that we will be the best integrated region. This is done by talking to one another and by being at the forefront and bothering to ask and also consult neighbouring countries before making decisions where the consequences for neighbouring countries may not have been assessed sufficiently clearly and well. It was also said that we have been told that it was Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who said it • some advantages in the Nordic countries when it comes to IT systems and other things. We know that in some areas we also have different systems within the Danish border. We have that for many good reasons, but it can also cause some negative things. But I think that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has a point in that there are some opportunities in the cohesion and the fact that we have so much uniqueness in systems in the Nordic countries. In fact, it is also following up on what Mr. Bertel Haarder earlier. Let us run with Nordic solutions if we can. It may be that it can be a great solution not only for Europe, but perhaps for the whole world. We can hope and believe that. I will stop here and then leave the last part of my time for questions to be asked. Here you go, Chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151211	Mr. Bertel Haarder would love to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151214	It is true that you have always been able to cross the Øresund Bridge, but the number of trains was cut from six to one train per hour, and last Christmas the Bornholmers could not get to Copenhagen and Zealand. So I think there is every reason for the Minister to continue working with his Swedish colleague, Anna Hallberg, with a view to obtaining an Øresund Treaty that guarantees access for Bornholmers and guarantees access for Swedes to Kastrup, and which at the same time contains alert rules and negotiating commitments if we get back into the same situation. Then, when it comes to the fine dialogue that the Minister has had with his Swedish colleague, I would just like us to have a similar dialogue between the two health ministers. Because it is true what was said about the problem of health assistants and assistants, but could the two ministers not, however, sit together, talk together and find a solution, and if it is something with some qualifications, resolve it? That is just what I wanted to ask the Minister to say to his colleague.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151332	Thank you very much. That is quite right, and I can therefore hear that we are in complete agreement on what the situation has been like with the Øresund Bridge. It has never been completely closed and I think it is really important for posterity that we get political clarification. Otherwise, I think it might be a truth into the future that does not have a reality behind it. In relation to the cooperation between Denmark and Sweden, I very much trust the working group set up across Denmark and Sweden to look at the transit conditions exactly in relation to Bornholm and Copenhagen Airport. I believe that the task of those who have been given is so fine and so concrete, and there is my hope and expectation that they will come forward with recommendations and proposals for solutions which will be able to stop in the future and which will commit the two countries. In relation to social and health care, as has been said, we have a huge need for health professionals. All municipalities lack social and health workers and assistants, and that is why a solution would also be welcome, and that is why we in the government must, of course, try to work on solutions. All we have to do is ensure that patient safety is not depressed in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151452	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151458	I was just wondering whether it was even under border barriers that could be dealt with here, but I am still trying. Because under the corona there were also some boundaries in our heads. I remember proposing very early that we should now get Nordic co-operation going on the development of this vaccine, and that there were a lot of ministers who said that no, no, it is totally crazy, we cannot do it in Denmark at all, and the Nordic Region is too small for that too, and that it takes big multinationals to fix it. I'm still not sure. I really think we blocked then and said that we are small entities, that we have to deal with ourselves and that we are totally dependent on the big companies. It's the government that pays for it, and if we had a common approach to the research that was stronger than what we have today, we have some individual areas... then I think we could have done miracles during this pandemic. For now we have talked about it with the physical border barriers, but I think there are also some blockages in relation to what we believe in. We do not have enough confidence in the Nordic countries to dare to jump into major tasks that we can solve when, as Bertel Haarder says, we talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151605	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151606	Actually, I'm really glad that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl raises this perspective in things, whether we are big enough, and whether we are risky enough, or whether we have blockages in relation to it. I want to say that and I do so on the basis that I have worked with health all my life until one or two years ago that what we've been through in relation to the pandemic and that we got the vaccines is world history. The fact that the world was united was the reason why we found vaccines so quickly; no one had thought it could ever happen. But I have to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, I think we should have a very high level of ambition in the Nordic region, and I think we have that too. At any rate, I know that there is a very, very high degree of integration between the research environments in the Nordic countries, and we must have that. And another issue that we could have addressed today in relation to Nordic co-operation, as in the previous statement, was the area of antibiotic resistance, and let it be my wish that it be here that we break a code which, for world health, will be absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151720	Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed and we now move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151730	The debate is open. Here you go, Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014151753	Thank you very much for that, President. It has been a very good debate we have had in this Chamber today, and I welcome the fact that we are now going to have the debate on the report on the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. I would also like to thank the Minister here too. I know that on behalf of the committee we would also like to thank you for your commitment to working with the Nordic countries. I would also like to thank our staff in the secretariat here. It is the case that not long ago we held a very, very fine Nordic defence conference at Frederiksberg Castle. The Livgard was there, and there was a dash and a lot of good debates. I would like to thank you very much for that. It has been a great success in that we could discuss Nordic defence cooperation for a whole day. And we were also on the frigate Esbern Snare before we sent it to the Gulf of Guinea. Now that I am speaking here today, I would like to say that we have many starting points in the Nordic countries for defence cooperation and also for emergency cooperation. Some of the countries are members of the European Union, some are members of NATO and all work at the United Nations, but our defence and emergency cooperation is also very much going on through NORDEFCO, which is defence cooperation, and through Haga cooperation, which is emergency cooperation. But otherwise we also have a long tradition of cooperation within the Nordic Home Guard cooperation. It is important to focus on joint training here and optimal use of resources, for example. About shopping. It is also the case that we have good cooperation with the Nordic countries on common international tasks. We have seen this in particular lately, when we were supposed to have our staff from Afghanistan under the auspices of the United Nations. We have seen it with the UN mission in Mali, and we have also seen it in NATO's mission in Iraq. Now I am also a foreign policy rapporteur and have been involved in negotiating all the agreements in relation to Afghanistan, and I can say that I sat with my heart in my throat many times when we had these negotiations and we heard that people were being taken out of Afghanistan. And we were able, because we had military aircraft in Afghanistan, to help our Nordic friends out. It is true that in many parts of the world we share embassies, especially the Danes and the Norwegians, and it was a really, really good way to help each other, compared to the fact that we have now, fortunately, got a lot of our employees out and actually all the employees are out. There is no doubt that the development of the security policy situation around the Arctic also has a particular focus for really, very many. And we have closer Nordic defence and emergency cooperation around it. Climate change and geopolitical tensions give rise to great power rivalry, and it presents challenges, but stability in the regions, that we can work together. Therefore, it is also more important than ever that we in the Nordic nations stand together and take responsibility for security in our part of the world, despite the fact that we have these different security policy starting points. As the external threat grows, we and our neighbouring countries must come even closer together. And it is often the case that those with whom you work best are the ones that look the most like yourself, and we do exactly that in the Nordic countries. That is why I am also pleased that the government here in September, in fact just after we had our defence conference, signed a declaration of intent with Norway and Sweden for strengthened operational cooperation in the Baltic Sea, Skagerrak and Kattegat. Unfortunately, it happened on the backdrop of a really bad episode of Russian escalation, when Russian aircraft this summer violated Danish airspace not only that they flew in once they flew back and in again. We cannot ignore that and we must take it seriously. And so we do, among other things. by strengthening Nordic defence cooperation. During the past year, there has been a positive development of both defence cooperation and emergency cooperation in the Nordic region, and this is through the Presidency that the Minister for Defence had last year • a Danish Presidency. The areas of particular Danish priority are, of course, the Arctic, but it is also the case that a special focus is being placed on cybersecurity, green defence, the transatlantic bond and improvements to the NORDEFCO crisis management mechanism. It has been the case that we have worked most so far in NORDEFCO when there have been peace situations, but now we are also doing so when there are crisis situations, and there has of course been a major part of Covid-19 in relation to the fact that we have had to talk. Denmark also held the Presidency in the field of emergency situations in 2020, and the Copenhagen conclusions were decided, and one focus of the work was to strengthen the resistance of the Nordic countries to natural and man-made disasters in the light of climate change and extreme weather conditions, which unfortunately has become very common in practice since we have seen the fires in Sweden, where we also helped each other. There is no doubt that there are many reasons for strengthening both defence cooperation and emergency cooperation in the Nordic region in the future. This is true, for example. ever more frequent cyber attacks that affect us all, but also future health crises and natural disasters and the consequences of the climate crisis can strengthen our cooperation, potentially in terms of extending it, at least there is an opportunity. It is very clear that Nordic defence and emergency cooperation has an important and growing impact on our own security and security, but it also applies to international efforts, as we have seen recently in relation to Afghanistan, and also to regional stability. I am glad that we could take the debate in this Chamber today. I am very pleased that we have been discussing Nordic relations throughout the afternoon. Thank you for your cooperation, I have with all the rapporteurs, and thank you for your cooperation with the ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014152422	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bertel Haarder, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014152428	I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for her statement and also for the commitment she has shown on several occasions to Nordic defence cooperation. In 2009, the former Norwegian Foreign Minister Thorvald Stoltenberg came with his report with 13 concrete proposals on how we could strengthen cooperation on defence and security, and the 13 points have been targets ever since, and we are moving further and further towards fulfilling the proposals he made, however, not so much when it comes to embassy cooperation and cooperation on development aid, but when it comes to defence and security cooperation, we have come very far. Most recently, we have received the Bjarnason report, which elaborates on one of Thorvald Stoltenberg's points, namely that which concerns cybersecurity. This is extremely relevant in the Nordic countries because we are so highly digitised and thus vulnerable. It is only a month ago that Denmark, Norway and Sweden agreed to a reinforced operational cooperation... thank you to the Minister for Defence for it too. The current Finnish Presidency of NORDEFCO, as the Nordic defence cooperation is called, is committed to deepening Nordic-Baltic and Nordic-Transatlantic cooperation, which is remarkable, as this suggests that the old fear of contact in Finland and Sweden with NATO and the NATO countries is now history. The Finnish Presidency will also cooperate more closely on the Arctic in the broad sense and, as stated in the statement, the ability to cooperate in peace, crisis and conflict will be strengthened, among other things. look at how to extend so-called interoperability so that you can operate in each other's countries, thereby supporting and strengthening each other's preparedness. It is a pleasure to see the Finnish commitment to the common Nordic defence. Of course, we are not in the finish line at all. There is a great potential to deepen cooperation, and the common goal in the Nordic region is to preserve the Nordic region as a low-voltage area. All we have to do here is remember that low-voltage is not achieved by leaving military vacuums behind. Military vacuums can be tempting, for example. for a Russian president who has problems on the home front and therefore wants to bring the nation together for a national cause. The best thing we in the Nordic countries can do for low-voltage is to avoid military vacuums and instead to keep watch for ourselves, even to be prepared and to have reliable allies. And that is what we have; NORDEFCO is an integral part of the relationship with NATO that both Denmark, Norway and Iceland have. And what we should note is that it is no obstacle to Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and security, that Sweden and Finland are not part of NATO for historical reasons and that Norway and Iceland are not part of the European Union and that Denmark is not part of the European Union's defence dimension. It is a mess, but it does not constitute any obstacle to Nordic cooperation. We are free to cooperate on our common security, we are doing so increasingly, and so we are not threatening anyone. We strengthen our own and each other's security. This may lead to a parallel organization, i.e. a parallel to NORDEFCO who knows? I think we should look forward to what he brings. And then I will not go through the whole excellent statement, but only the fact that a Danish defence minister can make such a full statement on Nordic cooperation on defence and security, I think in itself is a huge step forward. The fact that there isn't also a Nordic Home Guard cooperation I think that's very important, because that's where we've got the people too. So let us be satisfied that so much is happening in the field. Much more can happen, and all of this helps to reassure the situation that I described earlier, namely Denmark's position in Europe in a butter hole with friends, friendly countries all around, and with the alliances in the European Union and NATO that we have missed so terribly in the past. Now we have them, and we must be careful of them, and we must make use of everything that we can do with the other Nordic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153043	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder and goes on to Mrs Lise Bech, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153050	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Defence for the statement that has been made. In the Danish People's Party, what we also said here from the platform one year ago when we discussed last year's statement, we are very happy to see the strengthened military ties between our Nordic countries. In a situation that is, to say the least, unresolved in the Arctic and an increasing concern about the situation in the Baltic Sea, we need to bring the Nordic countries together on the bus and strengthen cooperation. And we support this 100% in the Danish People's Party. Compared to the activities of the year described in the report, we are very positive about the declaration of intent for strengthened operational cooperation between Denmark, Norway and Sweden in the Baltic Sea, Skagerrak and Kattegat, which has been concluded here in 2021. It is also positive to see that NORDEFCO and the built-in crisis consultation mechanism are used as an active forum and tool between our Nordic countries. The Finnish Presidency's focus on strengthening the dialogue on activities and experiences in the Arctic as well as the study of the possibilities for genuine operational cooperation in the Arctic, we wholeheartedly support the Danish People's Party. The simultaneous focus on the Nordic transatlantic and Nordic Baltic relations, which are also so well described in the statement, underlines Denmark's essential anchoring in NATO and the transatlantic ties with our American allies, which are and should continue to be the cornerstone of Danish defence and security policy. NATO is everything that the European Union is not and can never remain in defence. However, within the framework of our NATO commitments, we are more than ready to look at how we can further strengthen Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. An obvious place to start is, of course, to grab on your own bosom and start with the absolutely necessary increase in the defence budget to the level promised by a former Social Democratic Prime Minister in Wales in 2014. When do we see a plan from the Socialist Government on how to honour that promise? A larger Danish defence budget, which Danish defence could use as a basis for an even stronger Nordic cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness, we are 100% ready in the Danish People's Party. And once again I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for an excellent statement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153347	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153359	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for the statement, not least for thanking my colleagues and for some very good and exciting speeches so far about the statement. I will not go in and comment on everything, but will go down in two things in particular: one thing which, unfortunately, I think I am completely absent from Nordic security policy cooperation, and then one thing that I think could be greatly strengthened. If you start with what I see as absent, that was one of the things I also focused on last year, and that was about the whole issue of conflict resolution, where I think it is unfortunately absent. When we talk about security policy, there is no better security than when we avoid conflicts, and I think that is something that we should actually take up, also because there is a strong tradition in the North of what is a lot of knowledge about it, and I am sure that my good colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will be able to do so. Christian Juhl, when he comes on, will also highlight some of the good things that are, because he usually does so quite well. And I just think we should take that up on the Danish side and say: How can we become much stronger here and play a role in creating a safer world? The second point I would like to make is about the part concerning the international humanitarian partnership, where there is good cooperation. This is something that I very much hope will be worked on to strengthen and then immerse in the work of the former Minister on development policy. In other words, we are looking at how we in the Nordic countries are going to be far better at working together on the whole development policy effort in a humanitarian crisis. Because we can do something there, we can do something together, and that is the best way in my optics to conduct security policy: to avoid conflicts and to go in and look at the long-term. So that must be my response to the Minister's statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153559	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153610	I can lay down the flow of these many good comments, relation to the good perspective of the new cooperation, or new cooperation: I have stood here many times with Mr. Bertel Haarder and discussed this issue, I suddenly remember when I was Minister of the Interior, and later we both thirsted for us to get better in the Nordics for this. I will really only add an extra dimension, which I think is quite obvious in these years, and that is that, since the Arctic has begun to fill so much more, there is a great deal of discussion about the role that the Nordic countries can and must assume in this context. And I cannot help thinking that there is currently a discussion going on both above and below the radar, if I may put it that way, which is about how much increasing surveillance and greater capacity in the Arctic is a NATO task, or whether it is a task for NATO Member States. I must not hide the fact that I am very much in favour of the fact that it is the NATO Member States that are taking on this task, simply for the reason that we have had a good understanding with the Americans that this is the way to both get a robust signal to Russia that we are watching what they are doing without escalating the situation unnecessarily and without compromising our desire for low-voltage. And right there, good cooperation with Norway in particular is crucial, but also Sweden and Finland, and of course also the Faroe Islands and Greenland, where we are now in a rather historic phase with greater involvement of those countries in our deliberations on security policy. And I could also take Iceland with me in the same rebirth. I just think that is a huge potential and indeed a necessity, in other words that we should strengthen the Nordic security policy dialogue in this area in the future, simply so that we can move forward with what I know is a broad consensus in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153814	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. And then we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014153823	Thank you. Now it's not because these Nordic topics are up for a lot of dialogue and duel. However, I would like to say that from my youth until now a great deal has happened with the anti-militarist line in the Radical Left. We'll have to try to discuss that one day. When I first read this, and I drew the Minister's attention to it, I asked, and I wrote it out in the margin: Where are Greenland and the Faroe Islands? Where is the Kingdom community? Where's the kingdom? Should it be Denmark and Norway and Sweden? And that is where we have to remember, in these times when we are in fierce competition with the United States, who should be most attractive to the Greenlanders, that we are actually working with them and that they are also covered by these issues. And now I know that the Minister himself is trying to get young people from Greenland to take part in some kind of military service and things like that. It's not Denmark, it's the kingdom or the kingdom that does these things, and we have to remember that. I would like to say that in this presidency we have at least contributed enough to the debate on defence. Most of the conferences we have held and participated in or participated in have been about defense and the Arctic and armaments and such things. In evaluating, I would say that perhaps we could have given a little more time to climate and some other issues. But it's a taste, and I was impressed by the beautiful horses out there at the barracks. But when we talk about the North, we talk about it as the fourth major power, which has a completely different approach than most major powers have to military, and fortunately for that. And that means military is the last option. The military is very much allowed to be defensive, and that is something that also affects NORDEFCO, and I am very pleased about that. There's no point in us walking around like the big boy in class saying that because I have muscles, I have to show them, and then I want to be in charge here too. We've grown from the years when it's gonna be a cop and a gun that's in charge. It must be democracy and the good arguments that determine. And that is why I would also like to warn a little against Mr. Martin Lidegaard's call to involve NATO in the Arctic. It would be a scandal if we did it, more than is the case at all now. For every time we involve NATO, we also signal to those who some call our opponents, but who in many contexts are necessary collaborators, if we are to save the globe • that now we are arming, now we are involving new resources. We have promised each other that we should keep the military gear to a minimum in the Arctic, and I think we should hold on to that, and we should not be those who inspire new armor spirals. And then you have to call me naive and all sorts of other strange terms, what some more armored politicians do. But it is no use, then, that we ourselves are helping to work against the principles we have for the Arctic. On the contrary, we must step up our efforts towards non-military prevention. An exercise is to play with the muscles like the big boy in the class that I mentioned before, and that means that every time we have to try out the forces and show the others what we have, we do an exercise as big as possible. And then we can be absolutely sure that Russia or China will do an even bigger exercise to show that they also have muscles. And all these things are then used in domestic politics to say: we need more money for the military, and that is a real, really destructive and negative development that we must oppose. I would like to commend NORDEFCO for being very defensive in its approach to defence and taking the word defence seriously. We ourselves have considered whether, with all the wars in which we participate, we should not be able to rename the ministry to what was called it at the beginning of the last century, namely a Ministry of War, because that is the more it is now, if we are to continue with the mad excuses, now I have to find a nice expression • with the less clever wars in which we have participated, where we have created more problems than we have benefited. And I hope that will never be the case in the Arctic. I would also like to say that the Nordic emergency cooperation, the HAGA cooperation with more, is very, very sensible, I think. However, I had hoped that the ministers would listen a little more when we in the Nordic Council drew up a strategy for social security. We had to shout very loudly and ask for ministers to take our work seriously. Because we were just told that this had been looked at, and that there was no need to do anything about it. I can see from the report here that, in spite of everything, our ideas have been taken seriously in some areas, and we have promised each other that we will continue to work on those strategies, so I would like to call on defence ministers and others involved in preparedness to listen a little to the grain of gold that may come from the Nordic Council and parliamentarians. When we talk about preparedness, there is currently too little focus on climate challenges, and much more attention needs to be paid to this. I can see that it is beginning to show up a little around the periphery, but we need to get it going much more. I have no particular comment to make on Home Guard cooperation. It is, of course, a somewhat outdated form of defence, but now we have it, and it is historically conditional, and it is good that there is cooperation in this area. The latter is what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist pointed out that the capacity for peace and conflict resolution was needed. We may be using a lot of that capacity compared to all the military equipment we invest in. We do not even have an institute for peace and conflict research in Denmark. After all, the other countries do. And we have fewer embassies that could monitor human rights and that could help Denmark play a role in conflict resolution. I would remind you that Norway is the best country in the Nordic region. If we go back to the Oslo agreements with Palestine, it was the first attempt to bring the parties together and it succeeded. I managed to make a deal. It has not been successfully completed. But there was also Colombia, where the guerrilla FARC and the government had to find a solution. A peace agreement was made with Norway at the table and with Norway's intellectual capabilities at their university, which enabled people to be brought together because they had insight into the Colombian society, they had insight into the conflict issues that were involved in that conflict. And they found out how to get the guerrilla to put down their weapons and make a peace agreement and also to initiate a process that is far from complete. What if we just spent 10%? the defence costs of peace and conflict resolution. Then I think we could get really, really far. And try to think about if we could just save one month of all the wars we've been in and one per cent. of the suffering that has been in the many wars. It would be worth all the money. Moreover, most of them have failed wars, which is why I think we need to rethink our way of using the means of defence. And then think of another thing: development aid is systematically cut. One of the good things about peace and conflict resolution is that one invests in developing societies so that they become dynamic and good, so that people want to live in them and that one does not wait until we have to use the last solution, the military, to find out. It was cut from 2000, when it was 1.1%. of gross national product, to 0.7 per cent. This is also happening in the other Nordic countries. At the same time, we have increased our military budgets enormously. When I began to take an interest in politics, there was a principle, by the way, a socialist principle which said that what we are giving to the military, we are also giving to development aid, and that is fifty-fifty, that is, the same thing. It's been many, many years since that balance was pushed. And that is why we have to say that when we think of the Arctic and when we think of the great intellectual capacity we generally have in the Nordic countries to be able to think preventively, we must be careful that we do not end up like the dinosaurs, who died out because of too much armor and too little brain. And it is imminent in the Arctic, in my opinion. So let us continue defensive development and let us link up a fourth element called the Nordic peace and conflict settlement and build an unprecedented capacity. We have the possibilities, we have the abilities, and we would profit from it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014154756	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since I do not see any more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014154807	Thank you for your comments and great interest, and also many thanks for a very good and constructive cooperation. I have no doubt that it is absolutely essential that we work together across governments and across parliaments. We cannot afford not to be in the security policy situation we are in. The Nordic countries are closely linked. We share a common culture and history, and we often have the same approaches in the way we see the world. Nordic co-operation is essential for regional security in both NORDEFCO and Haga cooperation. There we are working to further strengthen cooperation, and we must continue to do so. Climate change offers space in the Arctic for both old and new players. It challenges security and stability, and thus also our free and democratic foundation in the Kingdom Community and in the Nordic Region. We agree that we must stand together to deal with this. This is an important task where we take responsibility for our security in our region at a time when Russia is arming and getting closer. We saw this not least this summer when our airspace was violated by Russian aircraft on an unprecedented scale. It is therefore positive that we, together with Sweden and Norway, strengthen operational cooperation in the region. In Stockholm at the end of September, my Nordic colleagues and I signed a declaration of intent that strengthens cooperation in our common area, that is. in the Skagerrak, Kattegat, Straits and the Baltic Sea, and it is important that the Nordic countries contribute to security in the vicinity with our knowledge of the area. We have an important responsibility and, of course, we take that responsibility on board. With the Declaration of Intent, we create the framework for closer operational cooperation with the opportunity to conduct exercises together and exchange experiences and information, thus expanding our eyes and ears in the vicinity. It takes confidence to exchange these types of information, and we enjoy confidence in particular between the Nordic countries. Let me give you a concrete example. When we started the operation with the evacuations from Afghanistan, we reached directly to our Nordic neighbours. We offered them our support, and they supported us. Those were chaotic moments. We made a difference. I know that my Nordic colleagues appreciate the support we provided from our side. And once again, we benefited from NORDEFCO's special communication network, which we only share in NORDEFCO. It is a network that ensures that we can talk to each other freely and confidently. We do so because we trust each other, a trust that has been built up over a long period of time. In 2020, as you know, we had the chair of NORDEFCO, and from our side we identified a number of issues that we would give particular priority during the year of the Presidency. The topics of particular priority were cybersecurity, Arctic green defence, the transatlantic bond and the improvement of the NorthEFCO crisis management mechanism. These are initiatives that are relevant and important contributions to the work on security and security and which make sense to work with across the Nordic countries, and which, of course, are also part of the "NORDEFCO Vision 2025" section. The cooperation in NORDEFCO, following our Presidency, is in good shape during this year's Finnish Presidency, and I often meet with my Nordic Defence Ministers in different contexts. I look forward to the next NORDEFCO ministerial meeting in Helsinki in November. During the Finnish Presidency, we are continuing to strengthen cooperation in the Arctic, and Nordic transatlantic relations are important. And then we will probably live with the fact that we do not share the passion of the Finnish Presidency for the sauna. Cooperation with the Baltic countries is close. Geographically, we are placed close to each other, which is why it is important that we have a close dialogue. The links with industry must also be strengthened. This year representatives of industry met in the Nordic countries in Helsinki to discuss cooperation in the framework of NORDEFCO. This year, we have also continued to work with the NordEFCO Vision 2025 to strengthen the ability to cooperate in crisis and conflict. Cooperation has so far been limited to cooperation in peacetime. The development of the situation and the experience of the Covid-19 and Afghanistan are precisely pointsing to the expansion of cooperation. I would also like to mention briefly our cooperation with the Nordic countries on international tasks, for example. in the framework of NATO or UN missions, and the Nordic rotation with the deployment of transport aircraft to the UN mission in Mali. As regards the Nordic emergency cooperation, in 2021 there has also been a positive development of cooperation. This helps to strengthen the country's resilience to natural and man-made disasters, and here too we have moved on to cooperation. Our presidency of the Haga cooperation in 2020 revealed this with the so-called Copenhagen conclusions. The conclusions sum up the work in 2020, and it acts among other things. strengthening Nordic emergency cooperation in the light of climate change and more extreme weather conditions. With the declaration, the Nordic countries have among other things: given each other handshakes working for more compatible equipment. We will also share knowledge about natural hazards, develop common procedures to support each other, and explore opportunities for joint exercises. Let me conclude by saying that it is also positive that there is strong cooperation between the Nordic Home Guards, as I also heard Mr. Bertel Haarder mentioned. The exchange of experience and knowledge is ongoing and cooperation is being made on training and practice, and it benefits everyone. For me, there is no doubt that the Nordic community is something special and can do something special, even if we have different security policy starting points within and outside NATO. Nordic co-operation is developing rapidly these years and is becoming increasingly important for the security and stability of our part of the world. It is a development potential that we must continue to explore. I will continue to give priority to this, and I am also very grateful for the support that I experience in this Parliament. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155521	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155526	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is aware that in recent years a concept called feminist foreign policy has developed. I have sat on the Nordic Council for hours listening to a former colleague of our Minister for Defence, Margot Wallström, and I have been enriched by many of her ways of describing how to work, and that is precisely one of the reasons why I am more and more forcefully advocating that we have a non-military conflict resolution unit and a greater capacity in the area that should fill as much as the military when we get further forward. It will not be in my time at this rate, but I would like to ask whether the Minister knows these concepts and whether she can be inspired by them, because then perhaps she could also be one of the driving forces in this development.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155623	I am very aware that there has been a huge gap in the security policy debate when it comes to involving women, peace and stability, and that is why I raised it at a NATO ministerial meeting three or four times ago and ensured that it entered NATO as a key agenda, and that is it now. By the way, it was with the support of among others. Spain and Portugal and a number of other Nordic colleagues. But it is now part of NATO's vision forward-looking, and I think that is important, because women are a crucial part of ensuring stability around the world, and it is also crucial that we have women as part of both our defence and preparedness, because it provides more perspectives on the task solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155719	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155721	But Margot Wallström doesn't just talk about women coming in. I fully agree that this is a sensible thing, because it provides a different balance and a completely different debate, but it also provides a completely new way of thinking. That's more what I put up with. NATO is, of course, a heavy device, and it is an organisation that must be able to act and so on and that is not built to think in non-military conflict resolution units. Therefore, we need to have others in and also have a new mindset, including in the Danish Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155800	I try to contribute a little femininity to the thinking of the Danish Ministry of Defence, but I think it sounds like something we should delve into more, and I would like to do so. But it is clear that there are some structures that are important to hold onto, and when it comes to NATO, I believe that NATO is the guarantor of Denmark's security. I believe that NATO can do something very special, and that is why I think it is really sensible to think women, peace and stability into the existing old structures.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155837	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. We need to move on, but we need to move some back after the rapporteurs have moved around a little. I think we'll just give it a minute. Now I see the treasurers are in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155911	The debate is open. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014155926	Thank you. The Government wishes to prioritize the ongoing development and updating of Denmark's network of double taxation agreements with other countries. Of course, the Social Democratic Party believes that this is a very good idea, and that is why it is constantly working to conclude new double taxation agreements and renegotiate existing ones. We are doing this in order to meet the needs of citizens and businesses for clarity on tax matters and, at the same time, to ensure that double taxation does not happen. This is also important in the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. Firstly, there is the double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ukraine. The double taxation agreement will be updated with further contemporary international standards. This applies, among other things, as in the case of Germany, to new provisions on the exchange of information and the recovery of tax claims similar to those in force after the most recent version of the OECD Model Agreement. Secondly, the taxation of dividends is changed so that the source country cannot tax dividends distributed to a financial institution in the other country. Thirdly, taxation of royalties is changing. Several types of royalties will in future be covered by the double taxation agreement and, at the same time, the withholding tax rate of royalties will generally be reduced from 10%. 5%. Fourthly and lastly, the removal of a clause which I think is important has enabled Ukrainian students to work in Denmark on better tax terms than Danish students. That provision is a good idea because the current regime creates unequal conditions between Danish and Ukrainian trainees and involves a risk of social dumping. And by removing the provision, we get equal tax conditions for Danish and Ukrainian trainees. The Social Democratic Party agrees that the Government accedes to a Protocol of 2 February 2021 amending the Double Taxation Agreement between Denmark and Ukraine. And I have to say, from the Radical Left, that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160156	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160215	Thank you for that, President. After all, as the previous rapporteur has said, we are dealing with a draft law adapting the double taxation agreement between the Kingdom of Denmark and Ukraine. Double taxation agreements contribute to economic development by clarifying the tax situation of companies and by ensuring that double taxation is avoided. That is a good thing, and we support it in the Left. It is also positive that double taxation agreements support trade and investment for the benefit of both countries. At the same time, such an agreement strengthens cooperation between the tax authorities of the countries as a very important element in the fight against international tax evasion. There is only one good thing to say about that too. Double taxation agreements are basically in line with the OECD model for agreements of this type. The present proposal updates the double taxation agreement on a number of points to current international standards. There's a really good reason for that too. The only concern of the Left is that those parts of the business community that are currently serving Ukrainian students and trainees, and here I am thinking particularly of agriculture, will find it harder to recruit students and trainees according to the proposal here. As stated in the bill, those parts of the business community that employ students and trainees from Ukraine may be adversely affected because employees will not have special tax advantages in the future compared to workers from other countries. At a time when the shortage of labour is increasing and where among others. Agriculture has difficulty recruiting, are students and trainees from e.g. Ukraine is an important human resource to ensure the operation of our agriculture. We therefore do not think it is time to sacrifice it on an ideological altar. One might ask which parts of the economy are otherwise concerned with who is affected by the proposal and to what extent. These are questions such as these which, for us, are a little unanswered. As I have said, the Left is in favour of double taxation agreements and supports these principles, but before we can express our final position on the specific legislative proposal, we need to clarify the consequences for business, particularly agriculture. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160454	Thank you. Now the two previous rapporteurs have been very concerned about the content of the concrete proposal for a new double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ukraine, so I would actually like to try to stick to some general terms, and that is that we in the Danish People's Party are very much in favour of making these double taxation agreements, both in order to avoid double taxation but also double taxation. We think it is the way forward to make these bilateral agreements between the countries, and I am also very fond of the OECD standard above. The OECD is a body that we should use more, because it is a wide range of countries, and that is also where we have to solve it, if we have international tax problems and need standards and other things, and we have seen that with the new tax agreement that was recently made here about a bottom below corporate tax and the taxation of tech giants, etc. So we are very much in favour of double taxation agreements and can also support this agreement. However, if I should mention a little about the content, and that is one of them. also just such a comment on the Left and Kenneth Mikkelsen it is that we can support it, that Ukrainian students, including agricultural students, will not in future be better placed than Danish students. Because that's what was with the old agreement. In fact, I find it harder to explain why foreign students should have better tax conditions than those we give to Danish students, and I really think it makes sense to have it treated equally with this. Because everything else seems weird to me. So we can support what it is here, and moreover we cannot table amendments to it either, because it is like take it or leave it, that is to say take it, or don't. So we support this proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160629	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Filsø, SF, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160637	Thank you for the floor. This is the first time I have been on the platform in this context, here I am replacing Mr. Carl Valentin. This morning I was here too, but it was in a different context. But to the point: what does SF think of the amendments to the double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ukraine? Yes, as a starting point, it is good and relevant to have updated cross-border agreements and legislation on taxation. The dividend case has shown us how bad it can be if there are not the right conditions for cross-border taxation and when international speculators have loopholes in tax legislation. That is why we also hope that taxation across borders will be a focus area for the government, and we are pleased that the government's tax agreements will be updated on a regular basis. Specifically, in the Ukrainian case, fortunately, there have not been the huge loopholes in systematic speculations before, perhaps also called bandits in suits, the changes that are being proposed are more of a technical nature. However, we note in SF a substantive change in the conditions for taxation of students and trainees, so Ukrainian students and trainees employed in Denmark in the future will be taxed according to Danish tax rules. This will make it harder for agriculture to employ cheap Ukrainian labour and to push down prices for agricultural work. In the region where I live, there are a number of Ukrainians in agriculture, and hopefully the new agreement will also be a protection against social dumping when Ukrainians are treated in the same way as others. The SF welcomes this. Therefore, SF can vote in favour of the amendment of the double taxation agreements, both in the light of the updated technical changes and also of the more substantive changes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160852	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. So the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014160910	Thank you. The unitary list is positive about the amendment to the double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ukraine proposed by this bill. Firstly, it will be updated with the new international standards on provisions for the exchange of information and the recovery of tax claims corresponding to the OECD Model Agreement. Secondly, there is the taxation of dividends from pension institutions, so distributions to a pension institution in another country will not be taxed. For example: This would mean that a Danish pension fund investing in Ukraine would not be taxed in Ukraine, and it is, of course, normal Danish negotiating practice to try to do what it must be understood from the draft law immediately seems reasonable. Thirdly, there is the taxation of royalties, which is changed to cover several areas, several types, but at the same time the withholding tax rate on royalties is generally reduced from 10% to 5%. It may be that there is a good explanation for this, but we are going to ask questions about this in committee, which is what the background is for it. The last element is about the foreign guest students, where the current agreement provides an opportunity for a guest student from Ukraine to be taxed more lightly in Denmark than other students. It has, of course, been used particularly by Ukrainian agricultural practitioners and involves inter alia: a risk of social dumping, and now the provision is proposed amended so that the taxation of such students etc. This is done in accordance with the general rules in Denmark, and we think that is sensible. It is fine that we get labour from other parts of the world to work in Denmark, but it must be done for Danish pay and working conditions, and we should not have rules that risk undermining Danish pay and working conditions. As I have said, we have some questions as to why the agreement has chosen to reduce the withholding tax rate for royalties from 10%. At 5%, but as a starting point, it is positive with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161114	Thank you to the rapporteur. Conservatives, sir. Rasmus Jarlov doesn't seem to be here, and then we'll go over to Mr. New Citizen's. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who has already gone to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161128	Thank you for that, President. But we must move forward in the Danish people's rule! I can say that new citizens can support it and that we do not object to a slight reduction in taxes. Even if it is in this area? Don't you think it's all gonna be okay? So we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161139	Thank you to the rapporteur, who is very busy moving forward. The Liberal Alliance and the Christian Democrats aren't here, and then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161158	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for the floor, and can I not start by thanking you for what one might well call a positive reception of the bill? Today we have to consider two proposals for double taxation agreements: what is also known as DBOs, which have already been heard and the first we are addressing, is about Ukraine. As has already been shown, the purpose of this is, of course, that the government wants to prioritise, that the network Denmark has with DBOs is continuously expanded and not least also updated. That is why there is continuous work to be done to conclude DBOs there, regardless of which government sits and there is a good tradition that here in the Danish Parliament, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned, on the basis of international broad guidelines and frameworks, negotiating and renegotiating already existing DBOs. After all, we are doing this in order to respond to the needs of citizens and businesses for clarity on tax matters and, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær was also mentioned at the same time to ensure that there is no double taxation. We therefore also want to ensure that the agreements reflect the will to apply international standards that we have in the fight against, for example, tax avoidance and tax evasion at all times. When we look at the DBO with Ukraine, the Danish-Ukrainian DBO was updated with effect from 2020 with the BEPS minimum standards through the so-called MLI Convention, and the update also included a few other voluntary parts of the MLI Convention. With the new protocol, the DBO with Ukraine will, as I said, be updated with further contemporary international standards, including, as will be seen in the next item on the agenda, as is the case with the DBO with Germany, new provisions on the exchange of information and the recovery of tax requirements similar to those in force following the latest version of the OECD Model Agreement. The Protocol also amends the taxation of dividends so that the source country cannot tax a dividend distributed to a pension institution in another country. This means that, for example, a Danish pension fund investing in Ukraine will not be able to be taxed in Ukraine on dividends. The taxation of royalties is changing, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned, too, several types of royalties will in future be covered by the DBO and, at the same time, as part of the debate here, the withholding tax on royalties is generally reduced from 10% to 5%. Last but not least, the protocol means that a special deduction for foreign guest students will be abolished. In practice, the scheme has typically been used to attract Ukrainian labour, and it has been surrounded by some debate, particularly in relation to trainees in the agricultural sector, that the scheme creates unequal conditions between Danish and Ukrainian trainees and that it also poses a risk of social dumping. That is why we are pleased that we have agreed with Ukraine to repeal this provision. In future there will be, as has been the case, and as I believe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dennis Flydtkjær pointed out that equal tax conditions apply to Danish and Ukrainian trainees. That is the point of this change. But thank you for the debate. We are, of course, at the disposal of questions and, of course, as always, we will endeavour to answer these questions as soon as possible in the committee's examination of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161615	We'll thank the tax minister. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161632	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161653	Thank you for the floor, President. Basically, we in the Social Democratic Party, as I also emphasised in my previous speech, believe that updating our double taxation agreements with other countries is an important priority. In this way, we can ensure that they always reflect the current international standards and, at the same time, we ensure that we meet citizens and business' concerns in the best possible way for clarity on tax matters. We must ensure that there is no double taxation and, at the same time, we must also put everything into the fight against tax evasion and speculation. Now to the specific draft law, which updates the Danish-German double taxation agreement: first of all, the protocol is updated to present international standards. In particular, there are a number of minimum standards which ensure that a taxpayer cannot rely on the tax advantages of the agreement if the main purpose of a transaction was precisely to obtain that advantage. This is a provision which thus strengthens us in the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion. The next update also helps to strengthen the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. These are a number of amendments designed to ensure that the Agreement is consistent with the latest version of the OECD Model Convention on Double Taxation. This applies, among other things, to: updated provisions on the exchange of information and recovery of tax claims. Thirdly, the protocol amends the rules on the taxation of training aid paid from public funds. It can now be taxed in the country of origin rather than in the country of residence alone. At the same time, the country of residence must refrain from taxation if, in accordance with the rules of the country of origin, the benefit would be tax-free. In this way we ensure that Danish Su is taxed regardless of whether a student resides in Denmark or Germany. As I began by saying, we believe that it is important to update our double taxation agreements with other countries so that we comply with international standards and ensure clarity about citizens and corporate tax matters. This protocol contributes to that. The Social Democratic Party therefore supports the bill here, and so should I say that the Radical Left too does.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161923	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Rasmussen, Left. And if I've understood correctly, this is the first time on the platform to congratulate you on that! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014161944	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing L 5, and that is probably what one might call a lighter technical proposal, in the sense that the proposal in large parts is an adaptation of the existing double taxation convention between Denmark and Germany. That is why it is probably not entirely wrong to describe the bill here as a minor one. Nevertheless, it is a big proposal for me. It is because it is my first legislative proposal, and that means that today is the first time that I have taken up this country's finest platform, namely the speaking chair of the Folketing. I am both proud and happy about this, because it is something special to have the opportunity to stand here on the platform in the Parliamentary Chamber and to contribute to the proper conduct of legislative and decision-making processes. But now to the bill: in broad terms, the Left can see that this is a sensible legislative proposal. This is because it clarifies the tax situation of companies by ensuring that double taxation is avoided and at the same time ensuring a fair distribution of taxation between the country of origin and the country of residence. In addition, the bill ensures that the tax on e.g. The Danish Government has not ended up in the German Treasury, since the actual amendment of the bill means that publicly funded educational grants, su-scholarships and artist support will in future be taxed exclusively in the source country and not in the country of residence, as has so far been the case. This means that in future the country of residence will have to refrain from taxing such benefits if, according to the rules of the country of origin, the benefits would be tax-free. In addition, the double taxation agreement is updated in a number of areas to meet current international standards. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the double taxation agreement is based on the OECD model for agreements of the same name; it is just to underline the value of international cooperation in the field of taxation, for example. Finally, I should like to add that the Left naturally supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, so the rapporteur is allowed to leave the platform now, although it is always nice when the rapporteurs want to be on the platform. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162201	I cannot contribute so much new to this proposal, nor to what I said during the discussion of the previous draft law, which was also about a dbo, albeit with another country. I will not repeat those words, so I just want to say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162220	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Filsø, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162231	Thank you. The change of the dbo, as I understand it, and I buy it immediately, between Denmark and Germany is another example of updating cross-border taxation legislation. As I also mentioned in the last paragraph, I and the SF see that most of the changes are relatively technical and also relatively uncontroversial. We note on the slightly more substantive aspect that the change in the taxation of social and other education services, in which taxation is to be made in the future from the same country from which the benefit is paid, seems both fair and reasonable. We see from the outset no problems in such a change and therefore the SF will gladly vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162328	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162335	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can support the proposals for amendments to the double taxation agreement between Denmark and Germany as proposed here, and Enhedslisten can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Conservatives aren't here. The next one's coming running, and that's Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162356	I'm sorry I'm late, but I haven't gotten over Enhedslisten's positive approach to tax relief, so I'm still not quite recovered. But we can also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162405	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance and the Christian Democrats are not here. Then it's the tax minister. If it went so fast with all the suggestions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162418	Thank you for that, President, and thank you once again for your support for dbo no. 2, if you like, and this time it's Germany. Firstly, the protocol of amendment of the dbo with Germany means, as has also been suggested, that the dbo is updated in a number of areas, as I have said, to meet current international standards. This is particularly true in relation to the four minimum standards that are the result of the so-called BEPS project in the OECD, which we are actually obliged to introduce into all our dbos. What are they about? Yes, the minimum standards include, among other things: a general abuse clause, and that is what we call the PPT provision, where PPT is the abbreviation for the principal purpose test, and this provision ensures that a taxpayer cannot rely on the tax advantages of the agreement if the main purpose of the transaction or the like has been precisely to obtain an advantage. And it is actually, although it may sound a little technical, a strong and also an important safeguard in our common fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. In general, as one could also hear before when we dealt with the dbo with Ukraine, OECD standards play a key role here. Secondly, this protocol contains a number of other amendments designed to bring the Agreement into line with the latest version of the OECD Model Agreement for the Dbos, and this applies, inter alia, to: updated provisions on the exchange of information and recovery of tax claims. This makes it possible for the countries, and also because this is an agreement, to provide mutual administrative assistance considerably improved. This also means that we will have another tool in the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion. Thirdly, the protocol amends the provision on the taxation of training aid, as several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned, which means that if a person is resident in Germany but is studying in and receiving su in Denmark, Germany will have the right of taxation for the Su. The German training aid is paid as a net amount and therefore it is not taxable for the beneficiaries. Under German rules, Danish su in such a situation will not be taxed at all. This inappropriateness will then be changed with the protocol, and with the changes overall the sensible situation will be achieved that Danish su, which, as I said, has been set as a gross amount on the basis of a tax requirement, will be taxed regardless of whether the student is resident in Denmark or in Germany. On the other hand, German training aid, which is fixed on the basis of a tax-free condition, will be taxed in Denmark or in Germany, as I have said. It was a little bit about the content. Thank you so much for your support, including this dbo. There have of course been lengthy negotiations here and we will do our best to answer any questions that may come as soon as possible in the Parliament's Tax Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162745	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162757	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014162825	Thank you for the floor. Now it has to be about a number of adjustments to the rules in the area of motor vehicles. These are adjustments that, among other things, are: It is a question of promoting the green transition of road transport and of strengthening the rulefulness of the motor industry. Let's start with the green one. In December last year a broad political majority in the Folketing agreed on an agreement on the green conversion of road transport. Here we agreed to tax-free the value of an employer-paid charger set on the residence in connection with the tax on free car. And in order to ensure coherence with it, it is proposed that the main shareholders and self-employed persons applying the enterprise scheme should not be taxed on the value of chargers made available by the company or company in connection with the free car. At the same time, it must be made clear that charging stations should not be included in the calculation of the taxable value. This way we make it easier to drive green. Let us now move on to another element of the proposal. It is about implementing parts of the agreement on the police and prosecution economy, which we also agreed on in December last year. It is proposed to bring forward the re-calculation deadline for leasing vehicles, so that it should be done no later than 3 months from the first registration of the vehicle instead of the applicable four-month period. In this way, we will reduce the tax advantage which some companies will gain if they make use of, for example. fleet discounts on the purchase of a larger quantity of vehicles. In addition, it is proposed to tighten the liability clause for self-reporters and dealers. The purpose of the sharpening action is to address the situation in which self-reporters use other self-reporters to value vehicles and that vehicles are valued too low. With the change, the DMV can go back to the dealer and charge the fee. The third element of the proposal is the introduction of a special procedure for consultation of the parties when determining the value of new and second-hand vehicles. It is proposed to introduce a special procedure for consultation of the parties in determining the taxable value of vehicles replacing the rules of the administrative code. This will help to support transparency and dialogue, while ensuring that citizens' and businesses' desire to put their vehicles into service as soon as possible is taken into account. This is important because in this way we can achieve a good balance that ensures rapid decisions and, at the same time, transparency for citizens and businesses. Finally, a number of technical adjustments are proposed. The purpose of the amendments is to facilitate the administration of the engine area. This is proposed, among other things. By adjusting the transitional arrangements to the new car taxes so that those who have had a legitimate expectation of being able to be taxed in accordance with the previous rules can be so. In this way, we ensure an easier everyday life for citizens and businesses, and we restore confidence in tax administration. All in all, this proposal helps to adjust several important elements such as the promotion of green conversion, legal certainty and control in the motor sector. We in the Social Democratic Party would like to support this and we therefore support the proposal. And so does the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014163155	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014163211	Thank you. As the Social Democrat rapporteur has just mentioned, we are dealing with a number of adjustments to the rules in the field of motor vehicles. We do, among other things. in order to promote the green transition of road transport and to strengthen the rulefulness of the motor industry. In particular, the green elements of the proposal, with exemption from the taxation of charging points in the right direction for us in the Left. We must ensure good conditions and incentives to participate in the green transition. In the case of an employee, the value of a charger and the installation of such a charger at the employee's place of residence, when the charger is installed by the employer, must not be taxed separately in relation to the provision of a free car when it is, I think, a private car or a plugin combination car. Against this background, the proposal suggests that there should be no separate taxation of the value of a charging station and its installation at the taxable person's place of residence if the charging station is installed in the case of a free electric car or a plugin hybrid car provided by a company to a principal shareholder. A tax exemption that would encourage the choice of electric cars or plugin hybrid cars as free cars rather than a more polluting version, we support in the Left. The proposal also tightens the rules for leasing vehicles, which are estimated to reduce the profits of leasing companies, rental companies and dealers, corresponding to an immediate revenue of 80 million. kr. The principle of bringing forward the recalculation time from 4 months to 3 months we support in the Left, but it is our wish that the proceeds be used so that overall it will not be more expensive to be a Dane, and that overall it will not be more expensive to operate in Denmark. We look forward to the debate and further legal proceedings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014163412	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll go over to mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014163426	After all, this bill deals with a number of different things in the motor sector. There are two different agreements: agreement on the green conversion of road transport, which is an agreement that the Danish People's Party is not part of, and agreement on the police and prosecutor's economy, which is an agreement that we are in. And then there are a number of other elements that are not part of any agreement. After all, the Prime Minister who said it was important that we had fewer legislative proposals and we had better time to go through it and other things. It has to be recognised that this is a good, creative way of getting fewer legislative proposals, that you simply wrap different agreements into the same bill, and then people can ask for them to be divided afterwards, and then we have just as many legislative proposals as usual. This is then one of these joint legislative proposals, which we have had the pleasure of having fewer legislative proposals. The first element I would like to mention is the agreement on the green conversion of road transport, which has also been mentioned. It is a question of charging stations which, in the future, should not be part of the calculation when you get a company car, and if you just buy a car, the charging station should not be part of the basis on which we pay a fairly high tax. It was actually something that the Danish People's Party also had in the negotiations, and I cannot take credit for it, because I was not in the agreement, but I would just like to say that we support that part, because we think it makes sense not to pay a very high tax on a charging station, which is not an integral part of the car. Then there's the other part. It is the agreement on the police and prosecution economy, which is, of course, the implementation of an agreement that we are part of, and that is why we naturally support that part. It's about moving this recalculation time from 4 to 3 months. In other words, when you register a car, it is now four months before you have to look at what the market price really is to ensure that we actually pay the right tax. It is now being brought forward by one month, and we think that is quite reasonable. Then there is a third point I would like to highlight, which I am a little more critical of. It is the intention to introduce a special procedure for consultation of the parties when determining the taxable value of vehicles. The background, which needs to be mentioned, is that the Ombudsman has looked at this area and among other things. has concluded that in many cases the value has been wrongly valued, but even worse it is such legal certainty that the Danish Motor Authority has not conducted party consultation. It is the case today that if you have one thing to pay taxes on, and the tax authorities may make a sharp increase in taxation, then you actually have to hear the citizen if you now agree with this and show what evidence they have relied on it, and that is, in fact, a good principle of administrative law. They didn't do that at the DMV. The way you propose to solve it is simply to abolish this principle of legal certainty, and I must say that I am not particularly in favour of it. In fact, I think it is quite reasonable that we should have the paragraph we use in Danish law that there is, of course, consultation of parties, not only in the car sector, but also in the social field and all sorts of other areas. So I also think it is worth noting that right now we have a Motor Board that continues to administer against the law. So there is also something in principle in it. When you find out that you are mismanaging, you will probably correct it until the Folketing may choose to vote through this, but right now you have just continued to run the wrong way of doing it, and then you hope that the Folketing will then remove this administrative principle that you have to do party consultation. I think it is just a lot of principle, but perhaps also very significant for the government we have, that it looks a little more at what the legislation is, because of course you have to do party consultation, if only until the Folketing chooses to say that you should not do it. By the way, I find it difficult to see what the need is to remove it completely. Is it not quite reasonable, in fact, to make a substantial increase in the value of a car? I can see that sometimes complaints have been made about the Board's assessment of it. In five cases it has been more than 50 per cent that has simply been missed. So it's not about 500 kroner.; it may be thousands of kroner, and so it has great consequences. A summary and a conclusion to the bill: we support the two things which are the implementation of agreements, although we are not part of one of them, but the last part about the consultation of the parties, as I hope it has also emerged from the speech, we are therefore critical of, and we will try, during the committee procedure, to delve into what the real need is for us to simply get away from the principle of administrative law, which is already there, of course, that a hearing of the parties is being conducted. I really think it is a good principle and will strive to maintain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014163850	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Filsø as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014163858	Thank you. Bill L 6 on various changes in the car and engine area contains several significant both green and red bars that the SF is positive about. This is a bit of a pile of proposals with all the good things from the car sector, but I would like to focus in particular on the green initiative in the proposal. The green element of the proposal is to ensure that self-employed and main shareholders, like employees, can charge their electric cars tax-free when loading at work. Although the self-employed and the main shareholders were also part of the agreement reached on electric cars and charging stations, it is only now that we are legally ensuring that they also get part of the benefits of that agreement. Business owners and majority shareholders may not be the group of citizens who most need tax relief, but in this case there are no narrow places in Bredgade for SF. We put on the green glasses and welcome the fact that by that change more people also get an incentive to take the electric car. If the proposal has even already been financed by the previous agreement, we should not be looking for funding for the new green incentives. In Norway, more than 80% can be used. of all new cars sold this year run on electricity; it despite far colder winters and longer distances than in Denmark. And in just Denmark, August figures for electric car sales were 19 per cent. That's not good enough. We have to do better than that. So we very much welcome all the measures that can take that figure in the right direction and boost the conversion of our transport. I would like to conclude by saying that, in addition to the good green bars, we in the SF also note fine tactics in relation to other parts of the tax on cars, where new, optimised legislation, among other things. will ensure compliance with the rules in the field of engines and changes in the tax benefits for leasing companies. SF doesn't see any problem with that. That is why we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164116	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164123	Thank you. To tax-free the value of stand-alones who are set up and to equate self-employed people under the enterprise scheme with ordinary employees, we support, as well as the tightening of the leasing rules in order to bring forward the deadline for recalculation. We support the tightening of the liability rules, and we also support the other adjustments in the area of engines. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164154	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservatives have no rapporteur present, and then it is Mr. Conservatives. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164209	Thank you. A good collection of slightly different things and something that is part of an agreement that we are in, and of course we are voting in favour of it. I very much agree with my good colleague from the Danish People's Party on the matter of party consultation. I think there are some things that need to be looked at, and of course we would like to have taken that part out, because I do not think we will be voting in favour of it either. To all of this, to value and value correctly and to tax electrical chargers, I cannot help but say that if the good bourgeois solution were to be run and the registration tax removed on cars, we would not have all the problems of administration, bureaucracy and trouble, and then Danish families of children would be able to drive in as safe and as good cars as Swedish and German families of children. So that's what we want in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164300	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Liberal Alliance is not, nor are the Christian Democrats. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164312	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the broad support for this proposal. I am quite well aware that this is a proposal that has ramifications to several agreements, but we are usually able to find each other well after all, although there may be corners of agreements that have allowed us not to be included in the overall agreement, but that is why there may well be elements in the whole agreement that can be sensible. So I would like to thank you very much for your support for this bill. After all, all of us who have been dealing with the tax area for a few years now know very well that the motor industry is rapidly developing in a whole range of areas. That is why we need to make an ongoing decision as to whether the rules are good enough as they are. The green agenda is an important priority for the broad majority here in the Folketing; it is also for the government. That is why we must, of course, ensure that the climate and environmental consequences of the use of motor vehicles are reduced. At the same time, I think we must also say that there is great creativity in the motor sector, and it is important that we respond when we detect irregularities and that it will not be too easy to circumvent the rules, if you like. Conversely, it must not, of course, be unnecessarily difficult for citizens and businesses to follow the rules in this area. The legislative proposal we are discussing today, in other words in the motor sector, is a legislative proposal which adjusts several aspects. It adjusts the green, legal certainty and control, to name but some of the elements contained in the overall proposal. In December last year, we reached an agreement on and implemented a very large restructuring of car taxes, and we can clearly see that this has had an enormous impact on the conversion of road transport. In the first three quarters of 2021, over 30 per cent were spent. However, more can still be done to make green driving easier, and therefore it is proposed that self-employed operators applying the enterprise scheme and main shareholders should not be taxed on the value of charging stalls provided by the company in the case of free electric car or plugin hybrid car. It is a fugitive with the rules on employer-paid charging stations, as we agreed when we made the agreement on the green conversion of road transport. The draft law also strengthens the rules in the motor sector in line with the agreements that have been implemented in the last year. With agreement on the Police and Public Prosecutor's Economy from 2021, it was agreed to bring forward the recalculation deadline for leasing vehicles. The advance means that the recalculation must take place no later than 3 months from the first registration of the vehicle instead of the applicable deadline, which is now 4 months. Some companies gain a tax advantage if they make use of, for example, fleet discounts on the purchase of a larger quantity of vehicles. That advantage appears in the taxable value which is lower than the market value of similar vehicles. In addition, we propose to tighten the liability clause for self-reporters and dealers. The sharpening shall address the situation where self-reporters use other self-reporters to value-fixing vehicles and where vehicles are set too low in value. The risk is therefore that the taxation of the tax will have a large number of vehicles isolated in a single company which is being declared bankrupt at the moment of the start of a check. With the change, the DMV can then go back to the dealer and charge the fee. As far as the proposal for a special procedure for consultation of the parties is concerned, I am, of course, concerned, as Minister for Taxation, with the fact that correct decisions are taken according to the rules. It is important that we treat citizens and businesses both fairly and properly. I am therefore also very concerned that, with the special consultation procedures for parties, we should have a balanced system whereby, on the one hand, we will allow quick decisions to be taken so that car owners can drive their cars on the roads, while, on the other hand, we will ensure that the procedure will help to support transparency on the basis of decision-making and dialogue with citizens and businesses. The proposal for this special procedure for consultation of the parties, which is not the abolition of the consultation of the parties, but a new special procedure for consultation of the parties, ensures that the tax administration's handling of 50,000 vehicle value-fixing cases can be organised quickly and efficiently without undue delay for citizens. Finally, we propose a number of technical changes which we consider appropriate for the management of the engine area. This also includes an adjustment of the transitional arrangements to the new vehicle taxes so that those who have had a legitimate expectation of being able to be taxed in relation to the previous rules can now be so. The change should help restore confidence in tax administration and ensure an easier everyday life for citizens. That, in its simplicity, is what is in the proposal. Thank you very much for your broad support. I look forward to answering the questions that have been raised here today. We can get an answer to these as soon as possible in the Parliament's Tax Committee, and hopefully we will take the debate from there. Thank you for your support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164852	We'll thank the tax minister. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164906	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014164926	Thank you for the floor. Now we have to deal with a legislative proposal that is basically about ensuring a good framework for business. The aim of the proposal is not to impose unnecessary burdens on businesses to which companies must spend time and costs as a result of rules that could be designed or enforced more easily. A number of adjustments are therefore made to the adjustment of controls, documentation and deductions in the tax field. The adjustments can be divided into four groups. First, it is about adjustments to the tax control law. Here it is proposed that the work on information sheets in tax control should be entrusted to the Danish Tax Office in order to bring together the task where it is administratively most effective. At the same time, it is proposed that certain foreign companies paying tax on hydrocarbons should draw up their tax accounts in foreign currency. In addition, it is proposed to clarify the penal code concerning, inter alia: In the absence of any comments, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Second, the draft law contains a proposal on transfer pricing documentation. Transfer pricing documentation is a particularly comprehensive written documentation to be prepared by certain companies. It must help to ensure that multinational groups cannot undermine the Danish tax base. As a result of a ruling by the European Court of Justice, it is considered that the comprehensive documentation requirements can be relaxed in some situations where the obligation to provide evidence is not really necessary. It is therefore proposed to relax the scope of the special obligation to provide documentation for certain purely national transactions. Thus, the obligation to provide evidence should be applied only in situations where wrong transfer pricing practices in transactions can be used for tax speculation and avoidance. This ensures that the transfer pricing documentation is targeted at those situations which pose a risk of tax speculation and avoidance, while at the same time reducing the administrative burden on business. The third component of the bill is part-economy. A number of minor adjustments to the tax rules are proposed here for persons considering short-term rental of full-year housing. The adjustments shall contribute to a better overview of the tax consequences of the rental. Fourthly and finally, the draft law proposes to authorise the tax administration to lay down more relaxed rules for the approval of small patient associations for rare diseases and associations of general benefit, so that contributors can have the right to deduct gifts to associations. In this way, the proposal also helps to support association work for people affected by rare diseases. This part of the bill is related to the discussion of B 200, tabled by the Left Party in spring 2021. As part of the legislative work, we had representatives of the patient associations on several occasions in the Committee on Taxation, and we politicians were made aware of the challenges facing the associations in terms of being approved as non-profit-making associations with the right to deduct contributors. At that time, the Minister of Taxation promised to enter into dialogue with the small patient associations for rare diseases with a view to finding a good solution, and that is what is happening now, and that is very positive. We in the Folketing and from this platform must always remember the words written out there on the wall of the Walking Hall: It is the lives of people that give the law fullness. So, in those words, the Social Democrats support the proposal here, as do the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165324	There is a question from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165329	Thank you. After all, the bill contains many different elements, and I really just want to take one of them out. Because there is a bit of a principle in it, and that is the fact that accounts can be made in foreign currency for certain foreign hydrocarbon tax payers. So, if you run the company in Denmark, you should no longer settle your accounts in Danish kroner, what else I think is quite natural. That's what it is. But where the principle comes in is that one writes in the bill on page 6 at the top: "The burden this is for companies can be a different change for the freedom of establishment, cf. Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 49-55. So it is the European Union that is being referred to. Can it really be seriously thought, according to the Social Democrats, that it is an obstacle now and that one should not be able to operate in Denmark unless one then also reckons it in yen or Australian dollars, or whatever it may be? In other words, it cannot possibly be an EU problem that you have to settle your things in Danish kroner. It is our currency, and it is like what you buy. So, I really think it is fundamental if we are to start accepting that the EU can say that it is the right of establishment that is challenged because you have to act in Danish kroner or you have to keep accounts in Danish kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165438	It is true, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says, that the proposal here states that certain foreign companies paying tax on hydrocarbons can prepare their tax accounts in foreign currency. In other words, as a Social Democrat, I am concerned about this bill that we are not imposing unnecessary burdens on business, which companies must spend time and costs following and preparing a great bureaucracy around when we can enforce it simpler. And I actually think this is a good example of how you can do it, so I have no problem with that section.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165521	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165522	So the Socialist rapporteur does not see the principle that it is a problem that we now suddenly recognise that because you speak another language or act in another currency, we just have to recognise it. The principle is why it should only be this hydrocarbon tax liability to which this applies. Why not all other companies? Well, shouldn't you just be able to file your accounts in yen or Australian dollars? Because then it's almost a relaxation. Or why not also bring in the Brazilian currency? Well, that's what's fundamental. It cannot be an obstacle to establishing oneself in Denmark that one must respect that we have some things. For example: that it is Danish crowns that we act in and that we have a Danish language and other things. That is the language of authority. So, I think it is a slippery slope if you go down this road and say that it should be an obstacle to EU law and that you cannot establish yourself in Denmark, because then you have to calculate something in our Danish currency.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165611	So, as I said both in the speech and in my first answer, with this bill we are concerned that we are not imposing unnecessary burdens on business. However, in relation to the examples presented here by the Danish People's Party rapporteur, we can then try to drill out some of those things in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165632	There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014165650	Thank you very much for the floor. This is one of the laws you can say is a pile of pots; with eight different elements. Basically, however, these are quite reasonable elements, because this is primarily about simplifications. But what I would like to highlight first of all is what Mr. Troels Ravn was also kind enough to credit me for this struggle to get rare diseases associations recognised as public welfare associations. I'm really glad the government has now listened to that. I am, of course, sorry to have voted against a resolution on this in the spring, but I am glad that it will then be implemented. Because the important thing is that you actually solve this problem. This is because we had the visit of the Fanconi Anaemia Association back a long time ago, and they told us that they had some challenges because they did not have the same conditions as the larger patient associations, because it is so rare a disease, so there are so few who know about the disease and therefore can join. So they do not have the same basis for getting as many members as they do for diseases that are more well known. And I actually think they had a very good point. Well, it doesn't make sense to say that because you don't know the Fanconi Anaemia disease, it shouldn't be of general benefit. Of course, account must also be taken of the fact that it is a limited amount that knows about the disease. That is why I first started some work in committee and had a motion for a resolution tabled which was not adopted. But I am so glad that the government has now listened and included it in a proposal. And since it's gonna be a pile of weddings, after all, I'm glad it's a pile of weddings that I can see myself in it. Not because I am a big supporter of bunch of weddings, but simply because otherwise there are largely simplifications and tax details for companies which make it easier to operate in Denmark, and we are concerned about that. So we think it sounds really reasonable. One of the other things that is in this proposal is these transfer pricing rules, which are simplified for companies that are purely Danish. And I think it makes very good sense to be able to lighten the burden without damaging tax security. I should also like to note that it is proposed that the information document, also known as the tax return, should not be approved by either the tax minister or the Tax Council. And it's a matter that I know quite well because I'm on the Tax Council, and I have to admit that when I've received those information sheets, or when the Tax Council has received these information sheets, then that's what you've been thinking: Well, why does it look like that? Then you've asked, and then you're told it's because that's how it works, and you can't do so much else. And it doesn't make much sense to get an information document for approval if you can't change it anyway. So it seemed a little absurd to have an information document, and when you asked the question, nothing could be done. That is why I think it is a good thing that the Tax Council should not go along with it, because we have no knowledge as such of the professional behind it. I would like some sort of hand in hand with how to do with the information sheet and that it does not get out of hand in any way. Not because I've suspected anyone of wanting it. But I'm interested in how to ensure that you keep getting the clearest and simplest and best information document forward-looking with this model. But overall, I think that there are some very good elements here in the draft law, and the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170031	There is a question from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170035	I know that the President of the Left is happy to wear EU socks and that it is a party that really welcomes the European Union. But can't you see that this is a little bit of a principle, and maybe it's going a little too far? For can the Left really agree that it is against freedom of establishment that an account should be drawn up in Danish kroner? I think it is a slippery slope and why not the currencies of all other countries? Then it could be yen or other things. Can the Left really agree with the government that it is against freedom of establishment because you have to settle something in Danish kroner when you shop in Denmark? I really hope that the Left can see the principle of this and that it is a slippery slope if we start to accept these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170119	After all, it is not us who have written this bill, but as I understand it, I do not understand it as if it is EU-controversial that it is as it is today. However, it is a question of making business simpler, and I am not very concerned about the exact currency in which the hydrocarbon accounts are calculated for each company, and for me it does not mean so much whether it is one or the other currency. On the other hand, it is also important that it is simple to operate. So I am, in effect, positive about the idea that it will be easier to operate. But it is not the Left that has chosen the use of words in the bill. So I'd rather not be taken as an income for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170158	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170200	I fully agree that these are not the proposals of the Left, but you support them and you are usually an incredibly large supporter of the European Union. But can you not see that a fundamental limit has been reached here which seems totally illogical, that is, that it should be an obstacle for companies in other countries to settle in Denmark, that they should settle an account in Danish kroner, an account which, moreover, must be submitted to the Danish Business Authority and elsewhere? It is, I think, a really bad argument that the government has made and they are also using other arguments, but it is at the top of page 6 that it is the right of establishment that is challenged and that is why they are putting forward this proposal. Can the Left not see that sometimes there has to be a limit to when to interfere on the part of the European Union and that this could well be a limit where it was said that we have probably gone a little too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170244	I think that we should have the committee procedure run out, whether it really is contrary to EU law, because I strongly doubt that it is. So I think we should just get bored. That's the easiest way to solve this. I mean, I do not see it as extremely important whether it is one or the other currency in which the hydrocarbon accounts have been made up. I have to admit that. For me, it is also a question of making sure that it is as simple as possible to operate, but of course on proper and reasonable terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170311	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170326	This is another of these drafts, where you can first conclude that the Prime Minister has said that there should be better legal quality. There are eight different elements here: the accounting of foreign currency for foreign hydrocarbon tax payers, transfer pricing documentation, something about country-to-country reports. There is also something about the rental of all-year residences, which is in a completely different ball street. There is something about small patient associations for rare diseases, and there are just general changes to the equation law. I think it is good to have a good ambition for less legislation and better time for legislative quality, but with this bill in my hands, I just want to say that I look forward to really doing so. It is certainly not here, it has succeeded very well. So to the proposed. There are several elements I will not go into, but I will pull a few of them out and then go into depth with them. The first is also what I have asked about the issue of the accounting in foreign currency for certain foreign tax payers. I just want to make it clear that I think it makes good sense to operate in Denmark, and if you are in charge here you may have a factory that has a permanent establishment, then it is probably very natural that you also do your accounting in Danish currency. That is what you report to the authorities; that is what you pay tax on. I think it is a slippery slope that the European Union is now being used as an excuse to change it. As I have already read out, it is on page 6 at the top: the burden this places on businesses can be an obstacle to freedom of establishment. I really don't understand why you can take it seriously. Should you just be allowed to make accounts in Denmark in all the currencies of the world? There are hundreds of different currencies. That doesn't make sense. Is it supposed to be a digital currency, too, or what? In other words, it could also be an obstacle to freedom of establishment. I think this is a very fundamental issue, and you may think it is a small thing and a regulatory simplification, but I think it is a fundamental problem if we accept that the European Union should go in and say that it is an obstacle to companies being able to establish themselves in Denmark that we are also doing something about a Danish currency. It's like a condition for being here. So I think this is a bad thing, and I would like to say now that I would like to ask for the bill to be split up. Unfortunately, we will then have more legislative proposals, which I am in favour of fewer, but that is just like the terms when you pool it all together. Then there is the second element: easing the requirements for the preparation of transfer pricing documentation for certain purely Danish situations, and I think that makes good sense. It's been wanted for a long time. Because it makes sense that there is some transfer pricing documentation, that is to say that one has to prove that one does not sell at artificially low prices to a foreign subsidiary in order to move taxation to another country. But if you are a company in Denmark that sells to another similar company in Denmark, where there are exactly the same tax rules and the same depreciation basis etc., then it is hard to imagine how one could cheat in tax in that way. At any rate, it's very limited what you can get out of making this great piece of documentation. So I think it makes sense. Similarly, I find it difficult to imagine that you can also cheat if you sell to another country which has a much higher tax rate than Denmark. So why is it that one should try to shift taxation to be allowed to pay more? So I think you could go a little further into the seams to see if there could be other places we could relax. But I think this sounds quite positive, so we support it. Then there is another element about the approval of small patient associations for rare diseases, which are generally beneficial associations. There are, of course, some rules today that we have dealt with several times • the other rapporteurs have also touched on the question of whether you should be more than 300 members, have 100 donations, all have to be over 200 DKK, and there must be a certain amount of equity. However, there are small associations which may have only 50 members, but perhaps have 100 per cent. In the degree of organisation, there are only 50 people in Denmark who have this disease. Well, it's not fair for these rules to be tightened for them. Of course, they must also have the opportunity to have the same good conditions in order to be able to bring in some donations without being taxed by them, so that among other things they. can support research or just support patients and other things. We think it is a good thing that a solution has finally been found. They have also been in the presence of the Committee on Taxation, so we are all familiar with these, and they have been there and explained quite well, so it is quite reasonable that it should be resolved. These are the only three things I would like to mention, out of the many elements of the draft law. But I would just like to conclude by saying that we are in agreement with part of it. However, one about the principle of EU law and the establishment part, we would like to have a separate legislative proposal, if possible, so that we can vote against that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170758	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Karsten Filsø, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170804	Thank you. The draft law here under discussion contains a lot of relatively technical simplifications and clarifications on a rather large mixed country trade in tax policy ranging from accounting to housing rental and to charitable donations. When there are more clarifications than substantial changes, the SF is fine with the content of the bill. It can be noted that there is also a proposal in the draft law to make it easier for small patient associations for rare diseases to be approved as general welfare associations. This allows contributors to obtain the right to deduct when giving gifts and donations to associations. It is basically a sympathetic and good motion for a resolution which has been tabled by the Left in the past. When it was put forward, we were positive about it, and I was told. However, since we could not find out what it cost in dollars and ear, we could not support the final proposal. But it is now enlightened. Message 1 million. kr. a year, the proposal is estimated to cost. So with the information on the table, the SF is ready to vote both for the part of the proposal and the overall bill L 7. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170936	Thank you. There's no question, and the next one's so mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014170945	Thank you. As I said, this is a patchwork of various legislative changes that we are dealing with here, and I would like to start with the two things that we would like to ask a few questions about during the committee procedure. The first is about the documentation requirements for transfer pricing, because the transfer pricing rules are a safeguard against companies avoiding or reducing Danish taxation, and the changes result in a relaxation of the documentation requirements in cases where there are transactions between Danish companies that are subject to similar tax, and only the requirements for the extent of the documentation are changed. But then there is a long list of companies that are exempt from the relaxation, but we would just like to be sure whether that list is adequate, and we would like to ask about that in connection with the work of the committee. Then there are further a lot of changes to the draft law • other rapporteurs have mentioned what we are in agreement with. In relation to the issue of certain hydrocarbons-taxed companies, and it is, of course, the taxation of income from the recovery of oil and gas that we are talking about here, and it is not the smallest companies in the world that are typically about to be able to draw up their tax accounts in foreign currency, and there I feel the same way as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, that is, that we would like to ask a little what the background is for it and how much it is that the annual accounts are calculated in Danish kroner, which is what we have in Denmark, which makes it easier for the rest of us to follow what business these companies may have, for example. in the North Sea, which can also be linked to what we think of their tax situation. In other words, making sure that these are accounts in Danish currency can also increase transparency. So that is at least something in which we would just like to understand the reason why we are doing this and where we would like to know whether there can be some problematic aspects to it, and then there are also the fundamental aspects to it, which Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær travels and which I also find interesting to look at in committee work. After all, a good thing is the lenient rules for the approval of small patient associations for rare diseases and general welfare associations, so that you can obtain deductions from contributions. It is very good that it also comes with it, and we think it is super reasonable, and it is nice. Although one is a patient association and represents people with very rare diseases, it should not be the case that one is cut off from the deductions that would otherwise be granted if there had been a patient association which had included a disease that could affect more people. So we think it is very good that the legislation is being changed. Basically, therefore, we have a positive approach to the legislative proposal, but we have some questions that we would like to see plotted out in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171300	Thank you. We are also fundamentally positive. I think that these are some fine questions that have been raised by both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, and we support them in clarifying them in a committee procedure. There is also some ambiguity, because one thing is the accounting structure and the other is the obligation to provide information. So what is it that is covered by one thing and the other? As far as I have just been able to read myself out to at least section 29, paragraph 29, I have already read it out. 1, an exception for some of these parts. So that's why it's just a question of how this is really defined and who is covered by it. But I am sure we will get close to that in a committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171335	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171342	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for receiving and supporting the bill. I am well aware that it contains quite a few elements, some larger than others, but overall they are important, not least for the Danish business community. For it is going quite well for Danish business, the order books are full, but as always there is no need to rest on the laurels. On the contrary, it is important that we ensure that the basis for creating a good framework for business can continue to be established, and this can be done by reducing the administrative burdens and unnecessary costs of companies as a result of rules which can be designed more easily and which, as is the case here, can therefore be enforced more easily. The proposal we are discussing here and now deals, as I have said, with a whole series of elements which, in the view of the government, fulfil that objective. The proposal contains a number of minor adjustments to the Tax Control Act. First of all, the government proposes that it be left to the Danish Tax Office to prepare and approve the information document in line with other operational tasks already carried out by the Danish authorities today. Secondly, we want to ensure that in future certain foreign hydrocarbon-taxed companies will be able to draw up their tax accounts in foreign currency, and thirdly, we make clear the penal code, among other things. timely submission of the transfer pricing documentation and country-by-country report. In addition, the draft law, as it has also been, acts, among other things. to ease the situations in which, as I said, the so-called transfer pricing documentation has to be prepared. The transfer pricing documentation is a very comprehensive piece of documentation to be prepared by certain companies, which will help to ensure that multinational groups do not undermine the Danish tax base. It can, for example. by speculating on the prices and terms used when group companies deal with each other, especially across national borders. In fact, it is a requirement that such transactions take place on the basis of whether or not a transfer term is intended, and that means that the controlled transactions of a group must be at the same prices and conditions as the transactions would have been if they had been carried out with an independent party. This documentation is currently to be prepared by all major groups which may have the transactions controlled here, regardless of whether the parties to the transaction are taxed in the same way or differently. As a result of a ruling by the European Court of Justice, it is our assessment that these comprehensive documentation requirements can be relaxed in some situations where the obligation of documentation is not really necessary. This applies to those situations where there are transactions between Danish companies that are taxed equally. The proposal maintains the obligation to provide documentation for certain purely Danish controlled transactions. This applies in situations where the parties to the controlled transaction, as it is stated, are taxed differently according to Danish national rules. An example of this could be that one party to the controlled transaction is taxed under the special tonnage tax scheme and the other party is generally corporation tax. Basically, the aim of this part of the bill is to ease the administrative burden on business and at the same time ensure that the content of the transfer pricing documentation is targeted at those situations which, of course, pose a risk of tax speculation and avoidance. In addition, the draft law also contains a number of minor adjustments to the rules on taxation of rental income by renting a full-year residence in order to make the rules more simple for citizens and also for tax authorities. The rules were introduced in 2018 as part of the implementation of the political agreement • Better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the share and platform economy, as we called the agreement then. Last but not least, I would like to mention the change concerning small patient associations for rare diseases. This part of the bill follows up on the promise I made in the spring in connection with the debate on motion for a resolution No. B 200 to enter into dialogue with the associations concerned on a targeted relaxation of approval requirements in accordance with the rules laid down in Section 8 A of the law on equations. A permit would then mean that people who want to support the patient associations can be deducted. It is therefore my hope that the proposal will strengthen the work of associations for the benefit of people affected by rarer diseases. I would like to thank those who took the initiative on B 200. This is an excellent and good way to bring things into being. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, here too, we are ready to answer any questions that may arise in the parliamentary committee and look forward to further consideration of the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171917	There is a question from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171921	I would actually just like to ask the tax minister quietly to put some words on, explain how it can be a problem for the freedom of establishment, to settle an account in Danish currency, and if you really do not think it is a slippery plan if it is an obstacle to establishing yourself in Denmark. Would the Minister please put a few words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014171941	I can do that. It is the case that today, in fact, I believe, too, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen referred to it today • are foreign companies or companies which are limited taxable persons in Denmark, which can already settle in foreign currency. So this isn't new. And what we are so sure about with this is that the companies that are explicitly taxed after, it can be said, the hydrocarbon tax liability here, are now equated with that. And as the draft law shows, the assessment is that this may mean that for the companies it can be • I don't think it matters that we are doing this equivalence, so that the companies which are only taxable under Section 3 of the Petroleum Tax Act are now treated in exactly the same way as the companies which already have the opportunity to do so. This helps attract Danish jobs, investments in Denmark, and this helps to make everyday life a little easier for those companies that actually employ a lot of people. So I think we can give them that hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172102	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172103	I fully understand that it is not new that there are some other exceptions, but that is just not what I asked. The new thing is that suddenly reference is made to EU legislation and freedom of establishment. Well, can't you tell it's a slope? It is not a question of whether there are any exceptions. We, as a Parliament, can choose to do that if we want to, but that it is against the freedom of establishment, it is something else. And that is what I asked the Minister to answer in the first place, and now you can have another try.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172143	We can easily expand what we mean by what the bill says, so how it can be that the burden which I basically think this is for these companies can be extended in a committee response I can imagine that the Danish People's Party is asking the question. Basically, however, we want to ensure that the companies that set up here and which are taxed under Section 3 of the Petroleum Tax Act are given the opportunity that other companies also have. It is about making everyday life and establishment opportunities easier for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172227	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172244	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172302	Thank you for the floor. The proposal here is to clarify and determine the taxation of the compensation and compensation paid to the mink industry and the accompanying industries in connection with the covid-19 health crisis. In concrete terms, it is a question of counteracting the current uncertainty as to when tax should be levied on amounts received in connection with aid packages and advances on compensation and compensation received as a result of the temporary ban on the holding of mink. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is fundamentally important that there is certainty and predictability about the time of taxation of these amounts. It is proposed that the beneficiaries should be able to choose the tax date for their compensation, which means that they can choose between including the amount for taxation in the year in which the amount has been received or defer the tax to the year in which the right to the amount is decided. In this way, beneficiaries of preliminary payments under covid-19 aid packages and interim compensation as a result of the prohibition of voting rights are granted. In addition, it is proposed to allow cooperatives with mink growers as members to maintain the right to be taxed as cooperatives during the period leading to a decision on compensation or compensation for the associations. Specifically, this means that it will be possible to derogate from the requirements of the cooperative taxation legislation that turnover with non-members may not substantially exceed 25%. of the total turnover. This should be seen in the context of the fact that a large number of secondary industries for mink growers are organised as cooperative societies and taxed after the special cooperative taxation. With the possibility of derogating from this requirement, we ensure that these professions are not unduly taxed. It is important for the Social Democratic Party to ensure that Danish business, Danish companies and Danish jobs get out well on the other side of the Corona crisis, and therefore we should also meet the fiscal challenges raised in connection with the payment of compensation after the covid-19 aid packages. This is what we are doing with this legislative proposal, which, on the whole, creates certainty and predictability about the time of taxation for these compensation amounts, and we are ensuring that a large number of secondary industries for mink growers are not unduly taxed. The Social Democrats therefore support the proposal, as the Radical Left does.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Then we move on to Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172547	Thank you. It is the case that in this draft law the rapporteur of the Left has unfortunately been prevented, so I have undertaken to read the rapporteur's speech. Let me start by quoting the tax minister from the previous speech by the tax minister. He said something like that things are going well in Denmark and that the order books are filled in most of the companies. That is true, but there are some for whom the order books are not fully filled, among others. our entire mink business, and that is one of the reasons why we are dealing with the bill here. There is something very central in the draft law, because it envisages creating something as fine as transparency and security in legislation. And, of course, it is absolutely essential that the legislation adopted in this Chamber is also predictable and accessible to those of our fellow citizens who have to serve it. The payment of covid-19 aid packages and the compensation to mink growers have given rise to uncertainty about the income year for taxing the amounts. With the bill, we must ensure that there is certainty and predictability about the tax situation of business owners and mink farmers. The Corona crisis has been marked by uncertainty and insecurity for many traders. The company owners here had to close down the customers for periods of time... that might be called the oxygen of the companies. Of course, the companies had to be compensated for this with covid-19 aid packages, but with them there was also a doubt as to the income year in which the amounts from the aid packages were taxable. I can't do that. Our task is therefore now to clarify when the tax will fall. By providing clarity, we also offer some flexibility in relation to the timing of taxing the aid packages. For the Left, it is absolutely essential that there is transparency in the legislation that is adopted, especially when it comes to mink farmers, it is important for the Left to create security and predictability. They've already gone through so much already. In the Left, we support removing the uncertainty about the tax conditions of cooperatives which have mink growers as members and which, with the bill, can continue to be taxed as a cooperative until the income year in which the compensation for the association has been managed as a result of the mink ban. Basically, it is a proposal with very good intentions that the Left supports. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172815	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next one is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014172825	The reason for this bill is, of course, the mink case, as has already been mentioned, and the compensation paid to mink farmers in the light of what has happened. It is, of course, a question, as also described in the proposal, that there is a great deal of uncertainty as to when taxation should be applied. Therefore, this bill proposes to give some flexibility to mink farmers so that they can choose when they want to be taxed, that is to say either when they receive the money or when they get the right to compensation. Well, that's pretty good, isn't it? But it is a little strange that we should try to sell it as a good opportunity, that is to say that we are now giving security and predictability from taxation of the compensation that they have not received. As I know, there are zero mink growers who have received their compensation, although we are approaching the time when it was a year ago that this has happened. That is, in fact, the biggest problem and, as a matter of fact, almost a major scandal. Because we cannot be opposed to providing more security and transparency. But the scandal is that they haven't got their money. They have been given a tempo bonus, but the compensation that they now actually had to live on or use to pay off debts is not there. I can actually understand if you feel a little ridiculous out there as a mink, when you have to sit and see that we are now trying to say that we are providing transparency for those compensations. Well, I actually think they just want them. They won't get it. Even more ridiculous is when you can read that the Danish Food Authority is still going to visit to ensure that the animals that have been killed are actually well. And by the way, the mink's gonna have to pay for the visit. They simply have to pay money to be allowed to control the animals they no longer have, that is, that they are now in a good condition or are there animal abuse, or are there animal welfare or other things? It's almost stepping on people lying down. We simply cannot be aware that we are printing bills to people for something that they are required to put to death and that they have not received their compensation. Then it is fine that we can give them some clarity and some security, but should we not make sure that we get that money out to them and then stop running and bothering the people more with unnecessary checks by the FDA and then at least do not send the bill for the checks, which makes absolutely no sense. We think this is an excellent legislative proposal, but I think that we should now focus on getting those compensations paid and then stop the unnecessary controls, which are just an insult to those people who have once been hit very hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173048	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Filsø as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173056	Thank you. I'll be brief. With the proposal, the government is taking a step to make it clearer and easier to receive corona-related compensation. The tax on corona-related compensation can now be paid either in the years in which it is received or you can postpone the tax payment no later than the year in which there is complete administrative clarity about the amount of compensation. I admit that it is a difficult process that is around this, but precisely this gives greater clarity and predictability to the beneficiaries of the compensation, and when it then even relieves an administrative burden, the SF can well support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173156	Thank you. Regardless of what you might think about the content of various aid packages, it is Enhedslisten's view that this bill seems to provide a reasonable technical clarity about the time of taxation of aid packages, and therefore Enhedslisten is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173215	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173233	Minkskandalen: A government that broke the law knew that it broke the law and continued to break the law. And then we stand here and have to deal with a matter which is about when mink cattle are to be taxed. But they are being taxed by some money that they have not seen at all yet. They haven't gotten these replacements yet. And then we have a law bill here, saying: Well, once you get it, you'll have to be taxed at that and that and that and that time. All right! These were things that we would actually like to see included in that agreement when it was made towards Christmas last year. But there were a lot of people busy going on Christmas holidays, so things like this didn't work out. Then it is rather nice and offensive that some parties stand and say: well, it's important, and now it's good that we get this, because now we get it straightened out, and it's important for us that we get it straightened out. When we sat there in the negotiating room, these things could have been sorted out. One could have demanded that there was a proper agreement for these mink growers in all areas; an agreement that was well worked out so that we didn't get stuck with this messwork that we are about to vote through afterwards. But you wouldn't. There was about to be a Christmas vacation, and you were busy coming home. Now there is a bill in which mink farmers can decide whether they should be taxed in one or the other year. We see this as positive, and that is why we will, of course, be voting in favour of this bill, but I must also say that it is a legislative proposal which should never have become an independent legislative proposal, because it should of course have been part of that mink agreement; it should not have been abandoned, and it should not have been signed before these matters were settled. So the minks candale keeps giving.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173441	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173454	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for it, you might say, positive reception of the bill. It is essential for the government, and it is also for all the parties behind the aid packages that we all get out on the other side of the coronapandemic as best we can. During the decommissioning process, we have, in a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, taken care to keep our hands on the Danish business community and employees with the aid packages, i.e.: the aid packages, which for many people are made under the auspices of the Ministry of Business, but also a great deal of aid packages, it can be said, under the auspices of the Ministry of Taxation, where we have provided liquidity in the order of 600 billion. kr. It is important that the efforts we have made together are fully achieved so that, as I said, we ensure that as many parts of the Danish economy as possible get out safely on the other side of the crisis. Most recently, here in the Folketing, we have secured an agreement in which we have postponed the repayment deadline for VAT loans due here on 1 November 2021 and the payment due on 1 February 2022. We've shot them by April 1. The cancellation of the repayment periods for the loans gives companies more time to settle existing debts so that companies have the opportunity to set up a comprehensive repayment scheme with the tax administration. With this bill, the government also wants to meet a number of the fiscal challenges that have been raised in connection with the payment of compensation after the covid-19 aid packages. It has become clear that, unfortunately, there is often uncertainty as to when certain compensation paid after the aid packages should be taxed. Also in relation to some of the compensation and compensation paid as a result of the temporary closure of the mink industry, there may be uncertainty about the time of taxation. Uncertainty may include: I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer So the proposal, in its simplicity, is about significantly reducing these burdens. A large number of secondary industries for mink growers are organised as cooperative associations and are taxed on the basis of special cooperative taxation. The temporary ban on the holding of mink may in some cases result in the compensation paid to these cooperatives being unduly taxed. The draft law allows cooperatives and their members to avoid the unintentionally harsher taxation. It is proposed that beneficiaries of preliminary payments under the aid packages should be able to choose the time of taxation. They must therefore be able to choose to include the amount for taxation in the year in which the amount has been received, but they must also be able to choose to postpone the tax until the year in which an administrative decision has been taken on the entitlement to the amount. By giving taxpayers an option in relation to the time of taxation, the bill creates certainty and also predictability about the time of taxation. The same problem of uncertainty about the date of taxation could also arise from advance payment of compensations and compensations as a result of the temporary ban on mink teams. The draft law therefore also gives the minkers concerned the right to vote in respect of the date of taxation in such cases. It is also proposed to introduce a special rule for cooperatives with mink growers etc. as members in accordance with the applicable rules. Under the current rules on cooperative taxation, the turnover of associations with non-members may not exceed 25% of the turnover of associations with non-members. of the total turnover. With the legislative proposal, we are derogating from this requirement so that cooperatives will have the opportunity to continue in the special cooperative taxation until and including the income year in which the compensation is decided. Thank you once again for your support for the proposal. I am, of course, at the disposal of the Parliamentary Committee on Taxation, with a reply to any questions that might be raised here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173924	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173940	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014173956	Thank you for that, President. It is actually a really good day today. It is a very important piece of legislation on the back of a very important tripartite agreement, which is about securing apprenticeships for young people, who must be our professional labour force, the backbone of the economy, and who, moreover, must have good opportunities to get the education they dream of in the future. Today's draft law is about implementing the tripartite agreement, which, on the one hand, must ensure apprenticeships for all, and, on the other, must ensure that there is a clear responsibility. In total, far too many years ■ in fact all the time I have followed in politics ■ there have been thousands of young people who have not been able to find an apprenticeship. Too many fall away because they can't find a apprenticeship. And it is clear that this is also linked to the fact that it has been the responsibility of the individual 16-17-year-old to provide an apprenticeship. I think most people would see that you probably wouldn't buy that if it was in high school you said to the 3rd Gs: Unfortunately, you're responsible for finding a seat in the 3rd g, otherwise you'll have to fall away. And there we have a very important task in jointly lifting it and ensuring that there are enough apprenticeships. With the tripartite agreement here and with the legislation we are discussing today, we ensure that the responsibility for finding apprenticeships is probably placed in the schools, in other words with the community, of course, so that if you find yourself an apprenticeship, you can still go for it. It is not the case that young people's initiative or ability to choose in this way is limited, but those who need a helping hand to find an apprenticeship must also have it. We set targets for 60%. of the students who have an apprenticeship already in the 15th week on the second part of the basic course, and by the 20th week it must be 80%. of the students. And we say that schools must do an apprenticeship job, and moreover that the professional committees must assist with this. And speaking of internships and apprenticeships, we also state that it is actually now called apprenticeships, because it is about vocational training, and there we all have to learn the same after many years of saying internships and/or apprenticeships in one wonderful confusion, that now it is called apprenticeships. And I actually think that's really good. So it's hard to find something to be really unhappy with in the deal that's been made. And I think we can be happy that the parties have come together and that hopefully we in the Danish Parliament will also come together to make that tripartite agreement a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014174243	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no brief comments. And we move on to the Left rapporteur, here Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014174255	Thank you. As the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned, we are dealing with a draft law here which translates parts of the tripartite agreement on more apprenticeships and the location of a clear responsibility. The first part entered into force on 1 January of this year, and that is now the remainder of the coinage that we have on the agenda. The draft law provides for a strengthened apprenticeship-seeking effort at vocational schools, including a new division of responsibilities in order to find apprenticeships for pupils who do not find one themselves. So with the bill here, the responsibility rests with the schools. In the Left, we wholeheartedly support fertilizing the ground for more people to choose and also complete vocational training. As I have said, this draft law is on the back of a tripartite agreement which aims precisely to ensure more internships, to reduce the drop-out, to strengthen recruitment and to increase the quality of vocational training. That is a good thing, and it is true to say that it is also necessary. We must have a broad political objective in the Folketing that 30%. of a youth year must opt for vocational training as early as 2025. It's only four years from now. If we are to succeed in this, we need to ensure that there are enough apprenticeships for students to complete a basic course. The place of learning is the backbone of vocational training. This is where the learner literally translates theory into practice, creates value for himself, for the internship and also for Danish society. I have to say, however, that execution leaves something to be desired when we look at the government's bid to translate the tripartite agreement into law. And I think we see this clearly reflected in the consultation answers, which leave the impression of quite a few knots, for example from the Danish Employers' Association, which among other things. stresses that the draft law focuses too clearly on the target figures, which, in their optics, is contrary to the political agreement. A close focus on meeting target numbers may risk removing focus from other challenges. It may be the effort to attract students to education that today lack pupils, it may be the will to try to maintain the weakest pupils or to focus on the quality of the courses. The Minister has also recently played out a shift in subsidies to vocational schools, a change which offers strong financial incentives and therefore also significant risks to schools. And from the perspective of the schools and here I may have to bring a disclaimer to the Chamber, because I cannot quite help looking at it here with the glasses that say that I am contesting the position of vice-chairman of a vocational school, so of course I am also reading with those glasses on the board there are a number of challenges in the proposed bill. Let me just highlight a few. The draft law does not take sufficient account of the cyclical fluctuations that we are experiencing over time in our society. The economic situation naturally affects the number of training agreements concluded. Experience also shows that in some of the courses it is considerably more difficult to get the students into internship than in others, and this means that the composition of training at each institution will also be decisive for the ability to achieve the target figures and thus also to ensure the economy of the institution. The economic structure of each institution can also have an impact on the ability to achieve the targets set out in the agreement, and thus also on the institution's ability to achieve a sound economy. In conclusion, I would also like to mention the ideological crusade that exists in connection with the conclusion of short-term training agreements. I simply do not understand the opposition, because I actually see that this is exactly the instrument that is quite useful for, among other things. to help, in particular, the weakest pupils to actually complete an education. And with those words and, above all, those concerns, I would like to say that the Left supports the proposal as a starting point, but that we look forward to further work on the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014174730	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014174746	Thank you. We are talking a lot these years about how much we need skilled craftsmen and others with vocational training, and with good reason, because there are plenty of tasks to be solved, and it is a pleasure to see how craftsmen can solve the tasks. I have just had a carpenter to build a rail for an existing staircase, and it's almost magic when you see how shape and function emerge from the tree. Also when we need to be climate-conscious, we need the craftsmen: heat pumps must be set up to change windows to work with solar cells and wind turbines. The bill translates part of the tripartite agreement on more apprenticeships and clear responsibility from 21 November 2020, although the submission actually says 2021. But I guess we're not that fast after all. The agreement focuses, as the name also says, on securing more apprenticeships and placing a clear responsibility. It is important that the entire responsibility for finding apprenticeships does not lie solely on the shoulders of each young person. If we want to make the choice of vocational training more attractive, we need to do more to enable young people to choose from their desires and abilities and not from the point of view of whether they are good at convincing a master that they should have an apprenticeship. You don't have to be extrovert and a good salesman to be a good bricklayer. We have to say that there has to be an adult who takes over when it gets difficult. It is therefore also very good that this agreement places a clear responsibility on vocational schools to help find internships. No, learn places. I am sorry, I am also trying to learn it. I also have a clear expectation that municipalities and business organisations will assume increased responsibility for helping to find relevant apprenticeships. After all, funding has also been set aside in the draft law for projects relating to apprenticeship-supporting measures. So it is all in all a palette of actions that I hope and believe will work as intended and lead to more and better matches of young people and apprenticeships. Therefore, the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014174950	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014175002	Thank you. On the whole, we in the SF also think that this is a very good tripartite agreement concluded in November, because it is extremely important that we ensure that the pupils in vocational training receive a good education programme, and because we also think that it has not made sense in the past that we have asked very young pupils in vocational training to be responsible for their own responsibility for completing their education by having an apprenticeship, when at the same time we are of course helping people through many other places in society, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned earlier. We're not asking anyone to find a 3rd g space on their own. So, overall, we really agree with this bill and, of course, we support it. However, I would just like to focus on some of the concerns we have and which I hope we can continue to discuss together in committee. With this deal, we're trying, among other things. to reduce the drop-out of pupils in vocational education and training. We are also trying to find more apprenticeships, and all that is connected. But frankly, I can be a little bit concerned about the more challenging pupils who may get into trouble as a result of the agreement, and in that case we risk them falling away to a greater extent. I fully agree that former apprenticeships should be able to help with the apostasy and that it is far along the way best for students to know early whether they have an apprenticeship or not. But I also think we need to listen to HK and FH when they express their concern that it can also have the opposite effect: that fewer students implement. Targets and ambitions are therefore only good to have if they benefit the students. And an earlier agreement will not benefit the students precisely if it means that they have a period after the basic or before the main course, where they have no dependent basis. Then, of course, we run the risk of students entering the labour market or moving to the cash assistance system instead. That is one of the concerns we have. Perhaps we should introduce a maximum limit of 3 months, from the end of the initial period, to the beginning of the internship, so that we do not get too many of the internships presented here and thereby also ensure that the pupils who have submitted contracts can receive a school internship or a similar benefit between the initial and the internship. I think that would make a great deal of sense in being able to keep them in the system. I also think we need to take the concerns of schools seriously. There is a risk of an unintended consequence if schools have to let go of some of the most challenged pupils, because it can cost schools extra when they do not receive an objective bonus. That is also a concern we share. There must, of course, be room for those pupils who need a strengthened effort or a little longer before they are ready to find an apprenticeship, also to have the opportunity and the opportunity to complete their basic courses without the schools losing money in this way. As a society, we need room for that, and of course so do the students. So these are some of the concerns we have and we continue the dialogue in committee work. However, in general terms, I would like to stress once again that we think it is a very good step in the right direction in order to ensure that it is more taken away from the individual young people to be responsible for this. I think it's crazy that we've asked them to have that so far. So all in all, it's good, but there's just a little worry anyway. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014175332	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014175339	Thank you. Lack of training places is one of the problems we need to overcome if more young people are to undertake vocational training. I am convinced that the choice of youth education by a number of young people will be affected if there is uncertainty as to whether they can enter an internship in a company, not least because the whole principle of alternance training is at the heart of the way we organise vocational training. I am convinced that the lack of internships is one of the major problems in relation to the drop-out of training courses. One cannot say that we address a new issue. I don't think I belong to the youngest of the Danish Parliament, which is why I remember that we discussed this very much too much. 40 years ago, when efg was introduced, the initial vocational training, so we are not out of business when we are discussing this. It is therefore also very good that the tripartite agreements that have been made here in recent years have intensified the whole work of providing apprenticeships and, most recently, we see it with the tripartite agreement that we have to implement here. I would say that one of the elements that pleases me I can hear that the joy is not quite the same from every point of view is that the problem of short-term agreements is addressed. I know there are differences of opinion on this, but as I hear it, there are also quite significant problems with them. Short agreements can be part of the solution, but they can also be abused, and at least there is a great deal of concern about this in the trade unions. It is very reasonable that many more people should enter into training agreements earlier than today, and therefore that objectives should be set so that the large majority of pupils must have a training agreement before leaving the basic course, first a 60-percent objective, then an 80-percent objective, and if we could get it higher, it was really good. However, this raises a problem which the SF's rapporteur also mentioned, and that is that there is, of course, a group of young people who can get into this situation financially when they get a future training agreement which means that there is a slip between the basic and the main cycle. In this situation, the young person cannot receive State training aid, because he is no longer on the ground, he cannot get a salary from a master, because he is not employed by a master yet, nor can he receive school practical training, because he cannot enter school practice when he has a training agreement. This is a real problem and I think it can be reinforced by the tripartite agreement and by the legislation here. It is not because the problem is new, because it is not, but when we put in target figures and also provide for us to come after the schools that do not meet the target figures. After all, there is talk of sanctions in the education proposal. We have the concern that then there will be extra pressure on schools to achieve the objective, and that is what we would like, but on the other hand, pressure can mean that more pupils will have a future education agreement, which means that more young people will have the problem than today. After all, it can force some to simply give up their education, for it is up to them to live 4, 5, 6 months without support. It's self-evident. So we would very much like that matter to be looked at. We could point out solutions, among other things. on the subsidiary. Why not give the pupils who come into the situation the same as they would have had if they had started a school practice? That would be fair and fair. For school internship they can't get when they're not in school practice, but then we could do a performance that was similar to the school practice. That's one part. The second part is, if it were not sensible to do as in initial vocational training, that one could have a three-month slip at most from the completion of the basic course until one got his place of internship and thus get started with the main course. But we support the proposal as it stands, because it is a sensible step. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support it. However, as far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, we would very much like to see the committee's work dealt with the problem of the advanced training agreements and hopefully find a solution that will ensure that pupils do not get caught up in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014175854	Thank you for that, thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we continue in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014175909	Thank you, President. Several apprenticeships and easier access to apprenticeships have been mentioned repeatedly over the years as a major challenge to strengthen the search for eud. For many years, after all, we have had a target of 25%. of a vintage must take an eud, and there we are not yet. The bill before us here must translate parts of the tripartite agreement that focus on strengthening apprenticeships with a number of actions. There are a number of objectives on what companies need to do to increase the number of apprenticeships, and here one can question whether those objectives are right, whether they are too tough and what you do if you cannot meet those targets. There are requirements to enter into training agreements and to strengthen opportunities to accept a apprenticeship. There is also a digitalisation of the training agreements, which is of course useful, and that is something that should of course happen. Then there are a number of apprenticeship-supporting interventions. I would say that a great deal is already happening in the sector. I have visited several vocational schools and there are now really many strong consultants trying to make that contact with companies and create those apprenticeships. There is really a lot out there, so the question is also like what is more needed. But it is clear that we must strengthen vocational training. But there are also some elements of this agreement that are not so appropriate, and that is one of them. In addition, there is an increase in the number of internships provided by schools. This could help lower the student's incentive to find an apprenticeship. Something else is that we would like to ask questions about spending 500 million right now. kr. in AUB money, instead of using it for, among other things. to finance the deficit in the AUB. There was a calculation error of about 21⁄2 billion. kr., and now there's a deficit. Tomorrow we will be discussing L 39, and it says here that we are now increasing payments for companies because there are quite large collections, three times over the next three years. And that is of course problematic, especially in the light of the covid-19, where many companies can still hang in the brake. So it is a little difficult, but we are voting against L 39, because it is going too fast to collect so much money, and then you have to spend 500 million. kr. of the funds over here in L 34, which is why we also say no to L 34. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014180143	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014180204	Thank you so much. A great many good things were said about this proposal by the Conservative rapporteur, and I can actually endorse it all. And then I would like to stress that I too find it extremely problematic that this bill clearly shifts responsibility from the pupil to the school. In fact, I think that there is something really healthy about the student having to find an apprenticeship. So we also say no to L 34.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014180236	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments, and then we are through the rapporteur's line, at least those who are present in the Chamber, and we have reached the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014180251	I just need to get over the shock. So Conservatives simply vote against a tripartite agreement? You still have to hear a great deal before your ears fall off, but it has been received, and it's still a pretty big understatement of the Danish model, and now I don't know the whole story of tripartite agreements, so I can't just stand from up here and say it's the first time I've experienced it. But at any rate I am somewhat shocked by that, and I must say that both the employee side and the employer side must also see it as a pretty great understatement of the work that has been put into this. It is, of course, the case that, when you make tripartite agreements, it is an expression of the consensus that can be reached, and what lies in the whole system of parties is that, across the various interests that exist in our society, and across the various differences of opinion that exist in our society, we find agreement with each other, and that, of course, means that there are parts of what you are really happy about and that there are other things that you would have liked to have had differently, and I really think that the comments that have come from up here today reflect this very well. After all, you are hitting some of the things that have also been at the negotiating table and that have therefore had to compromise with each other on the occasion of the conclusion of the agreement. In any case, it is natural for the Social Democratic Party to support the compromise reached between the parties and supported by the parties. I understand that this is no longer the case for the Conservatives, and that means at least that I would say that you have to think a little about the Danish model in a new way if it is the case that the parliament no longer supports the tripartite agreements concluded. However, in relation to what is here, I would like to respond directly to some of the questions that are being raised. First of all, the SF is asking whether there will be no economic gap, and the Left is asking a little about whether the target figures are too harsh, and the two things have been linked to each other in the negotiations, and that means that there has been such a balance of how much we dare to go in relation to setting targets. It is indeed incredibly ambitious to go in and say 60%. 80% and 80%. Of course, there has also been a discussion about what then counts in the respective 60%. 80 per cent, including whether it counts if the training agreement, although it is concluded early, enters into force only after a number of months, and there is the agreement that it counts. The agreement could have been something else, i.e. that the target figure was lower. On the other hand, they didn't talk to me. These are, of course, different paths that could have been taken in the negotiating room, but it is just to say that it is of course some things that have been up at the negotiating table. That is why it is not immediately possible to simply move on in connection with the treatments here in the Folketing, because then you move on to the very foundation of the agreement. Then, of course, it is always the case that the Folketing can ask that we renegotiate the tripartite agreement... that's quite fundamental... but it's simply to explain why it is that the rods have ended up standing the way they are. Yes, it is actually because the respective positions were present in the negotiating room, as well as those of the Left on the one hand, and those of the SF and Enhedslisten on the other, which is why we have tried quite carefully to go to the various issues and then find a balanced model. Then I would like to say something about this with the vulnerable pupils, and it is actually another point that has also been raised, and both the Danish Business Colleges and the parties have also raised this point, and we in the government are also very concerned about the risk that some people will, so to speak, be pushed out of the schools, because schools will be extremely aware that if they cannot provide them with an educational place, they will not count on the target number, and that will also be a problem that we will follow closely and have our eyes on. And I would say in relation to the part about the economic gap, that is, the deferred time for when, that is, the risk that too many training agreements will be too late, and that then there is a problem in relation to the dependency base, that today it is 98 per cent where it is immediately in the continuation of the basic cycle, and that of course I will keep an eye on that figure. Because if things develop differently and inappropriately, we will, of course, somehow have to go in and talk about whether we have got the paragraphs right in connection with this. Then I would like to say quite clearly about the transfer of responsibility, that it is absolutely true what Mr. Jakob Silverhøj said that this has been debated. In fact, we had a competition in the negotiations on which of us had at the earliest participated in activities on this issue, and so we are back before I was born in relation to those who won the competition, I would say. So it is absolutely right that this has been discussed for many decades. One of the things that's a little special about this area is that it's typically started with the sons inheriting their jobs from their father, i.e. if a father was a carpenter, so did the son, and you got an apprenticeship in the same company that the father was employed in, or you learned from your father. The world no longer looks like that, and it may also be very good on all kinds of stretches, but it just hasn't had the consequence that some others have assumed responsibility, which means that it has been all the way back historically, because it was a father's job to make sure that the son got an apprenticeship. So there was a clear adult responsibility, it was Daddy's job to make sure that the son got an apprenticeship. Now nobody has that responsibility, or it is there, and it is then the 16-17-year-old, and I met a young guy of approx. 17 years at NEXT, and that was before Corona, because we still had to move away freely, and he had applied for more than 100 apprenticeships and got rejected all of them. And that's not because I don't think it's very good to try to find a job. I think it's kind of a healthy and important part of learning to grow up, but I'm not sure that I think it's appropriate that your first encounter with the labour market is that you look for over 100 apprenticeships and you get rejected all of them and still don't have an apprenticeship. In other words, there must be some limit to madness, and we, as a society, have a very great interest in the young guy getting that apprenticeship, and it is of course not only for the young guy that he should have an apprenticeship, but also because our economy depends on our having enough labour. So there has to be a way with madness, and we are laying down here that you can look for your own apprenticeship, just as you have always done, and make the agreement yourself, just as you have always done, but there is therefore a hand in the back and a one-sided responsibility in the schools for them to help those students who do not have an apprenticeship. I believe that this is a very, very fundamental position, and I believe that the biggest breach in this agreement is that we will have that responsibility clearly placed for the first time in the history of vocational schools. The second point I would like to stress is that we are moving the time, and that is where these different target numbers come in, and when they do, it is because in the vicinity of half the young people have no idea what to do after the summer break. Those who follow the calendar year of primary school have no idea what to do after the summer holidays when they go on summer holidays, and that is not so appropriate. If you start a secondary education, you know that if you're done with the first g, you have to start in the second g after the summer break. But at vocational schools, where we need so much to hold on to young people and that they do not fall away, half of them do not know what they are going to do after the summer holidays, and that is not very clever, which means that the uncertainty that has been embedded in our vocational schools has obviously also contributed to the fact that it is in vocational training that we see the greatest drop-out. So for me, there has been such a clear objective to go in and say that exactly the time between basic cycle 2 and the main cycle we have to light up, and there we have to move the date. So you might as well know in March, in April, in May or in June what you are going to do after the summer holiday, instead of not knowing it and the apprenticeship agreements being concluded only later. Of course, there will be companies that do not already know what their order books look like after the holidays in March, April or May, but it is designed in such a way that, if the wrong way is going in the company, you can then get out of the agreements again. And it will be the case for a great many companies that they take in more apprentices at a time, which means that they can at least make agreements a little longer-term for some of the apprentices. The last one is the one with the name, and it's always something funny about the name, because how much does it matter and how much it doesn't mean? From the time it was decided that it should be called "practical places," I thought it was something strange, because then you can no longer understand how it differs from a professional practice, and I really like that with the words you use, you intuitively know that there is a difference between the things you talk about. Now I have never really learned to say "practical" places, which means that I say "practical" places half of the time, and that half of the times I say "practical" places, and I think we've all felt that way with the names that have suddenly become something else. In other words, it has always been called apprentices, and it is a very good name, and having an apprenticeship indicates that you are in the process of a longer training course, and that is therefore something different from if you, for example, are doing so. are in professional practice, which may be of one or two weeks duration. Last but not least, I would like to say that one of the main tasks we have is to get young people into vocational training and we have taken the initiative from the government to propose that there should be three climate vocational schools. I believe that there are a great many different things to do, so although I am actually incredibly happy with the tripartite agreement we are discussing in this Chamber today, the trees do not grow into heaven. There are a lot of things to do if we are to succeed, and I think the chain actually jumped off at the time in those years when I myself began to be politically active. That is when all the adults said that we must be a society of knowledge and innovation and that we must live on knowledge in the future. The logic was that in the 1990s it was thought that all practical work functions would move to third world countries because wages were lower, and therefore it was thought that what would come in the coming decades was that we should all deal with something theoretical. I was working at McDonald's myself at the time, and I remember how I went and had a little fun. Well, we certainly agree that you cannot long a burger over the counter if McDonald's has moved to a third world country, after all we have to preserve it here in Denmark, otherwise the burgers will get cold enough before they get here. And it was a misunderstanding, but one of the really big ones, where it wasn't just two people sitting and talking to each other over a table, but it was an entire society and in fact the whole Western world that was wrong about what it was for a direction society was turning in, and unfortunately with the result that the whole education sector was made across the Western world • and therefore we all stand together with the problem today extremely theoretical, and this has the consequence that very many, especially boys, are bored in the primary school, and the young people come out of the primary school with some skills that are too narrowly focused. So the school has become too theoretical, and that also means that the foundation on which they have to stand is far too narrow. Too few of the students can recognize themselves in vocational schools, for example, because they have never got to know the practical skills needed to read there and they simply do not know what it is. They haven't tried to be in a garage like that before. That is why we have in fact put the seeds to the problem we are facing today, namely that everyone thought that we were going to be a knowledge society, and that then it turned out and, fortunately, that knowledge is rooted in a practical reality, and that means that knowledge is based on it, that we have a production, and that is why doing practical work is braided completely closely with having a knowledge society. That is why there are a lot of different types of jobs, and fortunately in many of them you have to use both practical and knowledgeable skills and typically in a combination. So we are facing a great challenge here, and this is a bid for one of the steps in one direction, and I am very fond of the broad support in the Parliamentary Assembly, although I have been able to see that Conservatives may not support an agreement reached between the social partners for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181538	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181543	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much for many good answers to the questions we ask. It is nice that the Minister takes the time and spends a long time giving an in-depth speech. Of course, we would also like to respect this tripartite agreement, and we think it is basically a very good piece of work that has been done, and it is also clear to see that some compromises have been made. I am just really glad that the Minister is saying that we have to keep an eye on these figures in relation to the agreements that have been presented and say that if it explodes wildly, we have to look at it again. I'm really glad. Then I would just like to know whether the Minister can tell us a little about whether there was a discussion about the possibility of school internship or the like, in connection with the fact that one should end up having a few months between the basic and the main course, i.e. whether one could do something to help these pupils, i.e. whether it should be part of a future tripartite agreement, or whether it is perhaps something we could look at. But great respect for the tripartite agreement, and thank you for the answers to the other questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181650	Thank you. There is a limit to what I can refer to from the negotiating room, but so far there have not been any issues raised in the Parliamentary Chamber which were not also raised in the negotiations. That is to say, when the compromises have been made like this, it was not due to lack of wealth of ideas but rather to the inability to reach agreement on other cuts in the compromises than is the case here. After all, no one has intended that we should be faced with a very large number of young people who have previously been supported within the framework of the education system and who are no longer. That's why I have the 98 percent. I am blinking in front of me, because it is clear that if things develop completely inappropriately and the conditions for a tripartite agreement slide in, we must of course discuss it with each other again, and then we must do so with respect for the fact that a new compromise has to be reached. However, it is customary that, if there are some themes that run completely off in relation to what was the prerequisites, then you can take it up and discuss it again. But I would think it was bad style to reopen things that have been dealt with, and I do not really hear the SF's rapporteur say so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181753	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181754	No, certainly not. It was more if the number changed. Because when it's 98 percent. Today, I don't think it's a big problem. It's just important to keep an eye on whether it will be in the future. Finally, I would just like to ask the Minister a question about also keeping an eye on these apostate students, that is, the more vulnerable students. These are typically those we see being in school practice at least many of them because they are not ready for an apprenticeship. I'm just worried that the schools are going to have a very strong focus on these goals and then maybe not support the students equally. Why don't we keep an eye on it, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181836	I think we certainly should. Now the vocational schools know very well that I am a little short on this, because they are not fulfilling their obligation for too much of the schools in relation to the group which has a very vulnerable background, and that is therefore still the case. So, yes, it is going in the right direction, but it is going too slowly and they must live up to their obligations. That is to say, of course I listen when the schools say that they are worried about this point, but if you know the background to the pupils who are today and the tools and opportunities that are available today, which are not being used, then of course I will not follow it less sharply, but just say that you could at least start implementing it fully. I guess the problem would be less.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181918	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014181921	I recognise that it is difficult for a government to change a tripartite agreement where you yourself are the third party. It seems to be self-evident. Perhaps I am asking that we cannot show creativity so that we supplement the agreement and do not do anything that is contrary to the agreement? This is a really bad situation for a young person who doesn't just have the choice either. After all, you are obliged to take a projected practical training agreement if you are not able to get yourself one that fits with the end of the basic course. Could there not be a creative way to respect the tripartite agreement, but, on the other hand, to ensure that, in some form, we provide support so that young people do not have to leave for months without support? We cannot really be familiar with young people, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182014	Well, to put it bluntly, the answer is no, because it would go against what has been agreed, and of course there are really different views on this very question and the handling of this question. That's why the cut has been made. But that does not mean that you cannot follow it closely and see if the conditions are going to go. Because it can be said that, in the scenario that I hear the rapporteur draw up, it suddenly explodes. We cannot then have all sorts of people running around who have no dependent base, and I fully agree with that. In that situation, the terms of the agreement would have gone out of hand, you might say, and it would be obvious that the government took the initiative to discuss it again with the parties. Then we keep the letter of the agreement. But that is not what I hear the rapporteur say either. What I hear the rapporteur say is that if it turns out that there is suddenly a gap of several months for a great many young people, can we be creative? Yeah, I think we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182118	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182120	I thought it might be tighter than that, that is, that we should make sure no kids got stuck here. But does the Minister feel the same way about the time frame? In other words, as the legal notes state: there will be no requirement for how long after completion of the basic training agreement should enter into force. It's very loose in the joints. Could it be six months? Could it be seven months? Could it be 8 months? Wasn't there an opportunity to be creative, so that we went in and set a limit of 3 months, as we have known before and as we know it from the egu?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182159	If that was what had been agreed in the third part, then it would have been possible to do so. That's just not what's agreed in the third part. And there I just have respect for it. When you negotiate, you stand in different places and then you find a compromise with each other. This means that there were several different elements on the table, and targets, and what counts have been things that have been completely braided together. Therefore, we cannot begin to move on to the prerequisites for what is counted, which is what the rapporteur is proposing, within that objective, without at the same time going in and negotiating the whole target number, which is almost the most central element of the agreement, from the outset. So one way or the other: no, the deal is like this. Of course there are things I would have liked to have had differently. This is also the case both from the employer and from the employee side. But this is how it landed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182247	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182250	Thank you. I recognise a tripartite agreement. However, I also have to say that there is at least one point in the agreement that has been reached that really stands up for me. It is the case that we have now placed a clear responsibility to ensure that young people are given an apprenticeship. That's what we put in the schools. However, a large part of the funds that have been allocated are placed in the professional committees. And I have to admit, I'm wondering about that. Then the Minister could not secure my Thursday evening by telling me a little about how to ensure that this money is actually spent for the right thing and that it comes to use out there where the task is to be solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182335	Yeah, I'd definitely like that. In other words, it is the case that quite a considerable extra million kroner has been added to the internship-seeking work. And that means that in future work more coal has been put on the boilers together. And so it is true that the extra amount of money entered into this agreement has been placed in the professional committees to ensure that the apprenticeships are available at all, so that the schools can actually meet the objectives of the agreement. And then the schools get a very substantial amount of work to do job placements. The agreement then provides for schools and trade committees to cooperate very closely with each other on this matter. However, schools cannot, by their very nature, meet a target figure if it is the case that employers are not authorized to provide the training places required. That is why the cut has been put in this way, and that is why there is a split appropriation: there is an appropriation for the schools, and then there is an appropriation for the trade committees.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182439	Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182440	Thank you. As an old salesman, I think I could have come up with more cunning ways to do this, but peace with it. The Minister has recognised that these are significant changes that we are launching both the tripartite agreement and the bill here, and thank you for your recognition of this by the Minister. I am therefore a little surprised that there has been no more writing, what should we say, some evaluation conditions have been introduced here. How do we make sure we've actually hit right this time? Apparently, we've spent 40 years discussing it and doing things that weren't right. How do we get an evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182523	Well, I think we should follow up on it on an ongoing basis, including in the tripartite institution, and we have also given each other a hand in the negotiations. Because, as I said, the objectives are, for example, objectives. best man's best bid, and then you weigh and negotiate in place on the basis of the different considerations that have had to be taken. Whether it hits clean? I should be very surprised, that is, we have had an area and a system running for a hundred years. Then we change it, and if you had to hit it right in the first cut, it would actually be the first time I've ever experienced it. And so, of course, when you make such major structural changes as are the case here, there is a handshake on the fact that we are following it on a regular basis. And if we can see that there are great shortcomings, then of course we will come back and look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182604	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182607	Thank you. This may be the first time we have voted against a tripartite agreement, but this may also be the first time such a huge error has been made of 21⁄2 billion. kr., as has been committed. After all, we voted in favour of L 20 last year, and that is where we got 11⁄2 billion. kr. Too much in AUB. And that's where we got 1 billion. kr. Back to business and 500 million. kr. Going back to eud. So there we landed a good compromise. But with this, there has been a big mistake, and now we are trying to strengthen schools to do more to create apprenticeships. There's a lot going on out there. There is also something good in the agreement. The only problem is that with this, we're punishing companies. You have to pay 1,300 kroner. more per staff member per employee; We therefore punish those who have to take the pupils while trying to strengthen the schools: they have to create more; a supply and a coupling. And we simply think that it is too much pressure to put down on companies now and put such heavy taxes on them right after corona. That is why we have voted no.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182713	No mistake has been made. There's just more apprenticeships than anyone would have dared to hope for. Well, that's kind of good news. It is for employers, it is for society, and it is for young people. And when there are more apprenticeships, then it costs more on the aud, which is why it is true that employers have to pay more. It was, moreover, an employer's requirement, their main requirements, in the context of the negotiations on the 'aud', that it should be a flexible 'aud', which means that the fluctuations in the number of apprenticeships were fluctuating. These were the main demands of the employers' side in the negotiations. In other words, I do not recognize the way in which this is being talked about, and I do not think that the employer's side can do that either, because it was actually their main demand to have a flexible 'aud'. And I have also heard the employers' side rejoice, loudly by the way, that as many apprenticeships as there are have been created. And that is what makes it necessary to pay an extra high contribution in the coming year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182813	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182814	Now we have also talked to a number of employers, and one can then say that it is a miscalculation. However, what I hear many employers say is that it should be widely more out of date rather than charging so much so quickly in 3 years. And we do have many other measures to strengthen vocational training and to strengthen that there are also apprenticeships. We have also made a proposal in which we have four proposals that cost nothing to strengthen eud. There's nothing we'd rather do, and we're among other things. I also hear the Minister say that it has been too academic. We are fully in favour of this, and that is why we would also like to have much of the practical professional into primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182859	I can see that the way in which the employer's side is going to see that the situation has arisen, that it has fallen in with apprenticeships and, fortunately, that it is that they sit down at the negotiating table. And then I understand that what Conservatives are doing is that the parties simply choose to vote against a tripartite agreement. Well, once, of course, it has to be the first, but at least this is the first time I have experienced Conservatives doing it, and quite clearly. Because it is not the case that employers have terminated the tripartite agreement, so it is Conservatives who choose to simply say that they do not want to support the tripartite agreement that has been concluded. However, it is quite special and at least new.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014182936	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183000	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183007	Thank you, Mr President. We have been through a really long and hard course throughout society and in the education sector and in the primary school around corona. Fortunately, the students are back in classes, and our hopes and expectations are also that we will not have to shut down again because we can keep things under control, and fortunately in this way we will be on the other side of corona if only health and risk. But we have not necessarily finished picking up the well-being challenges, the professional gaps and the things that have been challenged by distance learning, by separation, by teaching in new ways which, for good reasons, could not be exactly as they used to be. And that is why a broad majority agreed to give widespread flexibility to schools and simply say: we know it is a difficult task to get back on track. We know there's a lot of work to be done out there. But we also believe that it is not the same task in all the classrooms or in all the schools, and therefore it is not Christiansborg who is best to assess how we put in, how we ensure the well-being, how we close professional gaps. That is why we have in fact agreed with each other that it should be the schools, teachers and managers who have the freedom to do so. Under the current law until mid-November, they do so, and what we are proposing here is, in fact, simply to extend the levels of freedom so that they apply throughout the school year we are in the process of doing so. This means that one can refrain from drawing up student plans and quality reports and that one can depart from that discussion, i.e. competence coverage, when one can say that it is important that there is a teacher who has several hours in a class in order to strengthen that relationship. Even if the teacher may not have educational competence in all the subjects one covers, so that, like that, one can adapt to where the shoe prints the most; one can make turbo courses, one can make two teacher schemes. But it is all based, of course, on not withdrawing funds from primary school, but on using them to teach in the best possible way and to ensure that professionalism and thriving gets back on track. Of course, we support that, and that is why I am glad that there has been a broad consensus on ensuring that flexibility for the rest of the school year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183243	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183247	Thank you. What is the view of the Social Democrats that no money will be set aside to allow the SFOs to open something earlier when they cut school day short?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183300	In fact, with the agreements we made, pools were set aside for different bets. And it's true that it hasn't been said that this money is going to be spent on this. It is in this way out of respect for the local assessment of where action is to be taken. So it can be said that neither the interior design nor the money bags were said by Christiansborg, how they should be used or what had to be done. That is why, of course, there is also a difference between how the municipalities will implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183336	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183337	Do the Socialists share my concern that the quality of the sfo will fall if no money is set aside to allow the sfo to open earlier? Do the Socialists think that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183349	What was actually the idea with this, with the agreements we made, was that you should have the opportunity, out locally, to adjust as you thought it was most appropriate. It must also be assumed that, in the municipal councils, there is also discussion of the consequences of shortening school days and adapting to different circumstances in the schools and municipalities. I guess that's what you take responsibility for locally. But it is of course important that you take that responsibility, and I have no reason to believe that you do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183423	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183436	Thank you. Let me say straight away that we may not surprisingly support the proposal here too. As one of the last things we need to do today, we need to deal with this legislative proposal which allows us to continue several of the degrees of freedom that schools have acquired during the handling of covid-19. The intention has been that the municipalities could thus focus on addressing the problems of both the trade unions, but of course also the well-being issues that arose during the corona. The closure imposed a limitation on the pupils' social life and leisure time, just as it also placed more restrictions on teaching. Now we're on the other side of a long closure. The restrictions are gone and everyday life is well on its way back to normal. However, this bill is also an expression of the fact that everything is not as usual. After all, it is a good principle not to hold on to restrictions or measures that were introduced during a crisis when we are on the other side. That is why we must also, in general terms, beware of unnecessarily prolonging these Corona measures. However, with regard to this proposal to maintain the freedom that we have given to school leaders and local authorities in the country, to be able to decide largely on pupil plans and quality reports and the length of the school week, these are areas where we may see a different everyday life in just a few years' time. At least that is how it works on the talks we have had in the negotiations we have been having just recently. We need to agree first, but on long stretches I think we're going to see something different than it used to be. Now there is a proposal here on the basis of a political agreement which the Left, with the rest of the conciliation circle, reached back in June, and although time seems to be different and circumstances have changed, the starting point is the agreement here, and of course we stand by that. And with those words, I can tell you that the Left can support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183636	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, so we will continue with the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183653	We are not yet completely free of the covid regime. We have consistently adopted a series of relaxations in the area of primary school to provide schools with the best possible framework for getting children through the crisis of as much learning as possible. In this context, it has been important to relax a number of bureaucratic rules so that teachers have more time to be with children in the ways that it has now been possible for periods digitally, for other times in smaller groups, but always with the greatest possible focus on learning and well-being. Fortunately, we are now on the other side of the epidemic. We've learned a lot. It has in many ways been a great experiment with the ways we have worked. We need to reflect on this, and we need to consider whether some of the tools we have put on standby student plans, quality reports, etc. Therefore, it makes good sense to extend the levels of freedom that have been in force under the covid until we have figured out what they should look like in the future. That's why this bill, which just extends the degrees of freedom until the summer of 2022. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183801	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. No brief remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Carøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014183815	Thank you. All kids aren't size 45. That's what a school manager said when the schools were still shut down during the corona outbreak. And what did he mean by that? Yes, he believed that all children are different and that children have experienced the shutdown and opening and all that in between completely different. Some children have felt extremely lonely. On the other hand, some children have suddenly felt that it was easier to participate because social opportunities were turned down. Children are different, and that is why the school now has a task as large as the task it performed so fantasticly during the corona crisis, but which is also different from school to school. The schools now have the task of meeting the children where they are and being there for them at the level and in the form that the children need. It takes time, it requires flexibility, it requires freedom. This requires that we let go of the control and control mechanisms and trust the employees. All children are not equal to 45, so we must set schools free more so that they can find solutions that make sure that all children make the best of their school hours. And what happens when we set schools free? Yeah, we actually saw that during the first shutdown. Shorter school days with smaller teams and more time with the teacher. The report from the schools was that it went well, surprisingly well. In some places the professional goals achieved faster than they would otherwise have been. Why? Because a long school day with many students in the class and short preparation time is not the way to good quality in teaching. On the contrary, it is the freedom to organise school days in a way that makes sense for the children locally, and resources so that there is time to prepare the teaching, and proper framework so that it is not megaclasses where there is no opportunity to see and hear the individual learner. We are now giving that freedom in the coming school year at least part of the way, with the possibility of shorter school days and of dropping the time regime with student plans and quality reports. It was the most important thing for the SF when we negotiated this agreement, so that the schools were given more freedom. And if it were for us, freedom should be given not only this year, but in all future school years; for freedom to schools in our optics will provide a basic better school and school day for the children. That is why, in the SF, we believe that a reform of freedom for schools should be carried out. But today we start by saying yes to the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014184048	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014184057	Thank you. Today is such a funny way to be a politician, because it was in my calendar that we were going to go on here tonight around 8:00. 22-23, so I was cycling home and had picked up kids and was eating with them, when I was told that it was now that I was going into the hall. That's why I've come running in here as soon as possible and haven't been able to prepare myself very much and therefore keep this speech from the heart. And so, in fact, many teachers feel at school because they experience that there is such a rush that they do not have time to prepare the teaching as well as they really would like. And that is one of the things this proposal is about, because it gives schools freedom away from some of the paperwork that takes a lot of time, but it also gives them the freedom to make school days shorter. In the Radical Left, we hope that the freedoms we give in this school year can also be given forward-looking. In fact, we would like to go further in the Radical Left. We would really like to turn it around and not just look at what rules we would like to remove, but have a discussion with each other about what rules we need for our primary school to be our common school, instead of always picking a little bit of what we are removing. I do not really think that thinking should be so far away from the Minister, because that is also the way we have gone to it in the two municipalities which have become free municipalities, where we also think about what kind of fence posts are the important ones while everything else is gone. In the Radical Left we dream that we can set school free both in relation to how long school day should be, but also in relation to quality reports, student plans, national tests and common goals. And it's pretty important to us that it doesn't just become a freedom from that we think it's good in what's here. Then I have one problem with this bill, and that is that I do not really think it is right that we have not managed to find a model to set aside money for the sfo to open something earlier when we have the freedom to make school day shorter. There are two things in it: one is that we would like, if we were to give this freedom in future, to fence in, that the money stays in school, so that it really becomes a freedom for schools, so that they can choose whether they want to spend the money on making a long school day or whether they would rather divide classes into small teams or put on an extra teacher or extra teacher. But if you are to have that freedom to actually do something, then it also presupposes that the money stays at school. With that, we also want to see the SFO open something earlier, and that is the second thing we want in here to take responsibility for setting aside money for the SFO to open something earlier. We in the Radical Left feel that we have been underestimating the importance of play for too long. It is important for children to play, and it is also important for children to play together in the big community that is in the sfo' and at the leisure home and in the club, which is something different than if you go home and are alone in the room or maybe playing with the neighbor who usually looks like you. What is really important for children's development is the diverse community of many different children who are in sfo and leisure homes. That is why I look forward to the months ahead of us, and we hope in the Radical Left that, based on the degrees of freedom which the schools have enjoyed under Corona, and which we are now giving them one more school year, we can actually succeed in giving schools greater freedom, and that at the same time we also use the opportunity to give life and value our leisure education in themselves. That is why it makes me so happy that we are a leisure majority here in the Danish Parliament, and it will be exciting to see what we can do with each other. Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014184523	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014184532	It has to be said that the country's primary schools have been through a few difficult school years as a result of the corona, and although everyday life has now returned, it is the school's assessment that many pupils have professional and well-being challenges as a result of the decommissioning, and that is also the opinion of all politicians, in that we have made that agreement, and that is the problem we are trying to deal with with with the bill here. We in the Enhedslist have generally been satisfied with the way we have handled the problems during the decommissionings. We have been pleased that we have been able to be a broad circle of parties who have been able to agree on how we supported the schools and, above all, we are pleased that we have agreed to implement a temporary waiver from a number of provisions of the primary school law. We think it is right that, when the temporary provisions expire on 16 November, we can continue them for the rest of this school year. We are releasing some tasks which Enhedslisten has actually long wanted abolished in general. We would like to see what we are now doing about abolishing student plans and what we are now doing about abolishing the quality reports and replacing them, that we did so permanently and replaced it with other forms of evaluation and ways of assessing the quality of schools. We are also also very pleased that the possibility is now being given to convert all the support courses I repeat: all the courses provided are to be included. two-teacher schemes, two-adult schemes. We think that's an amazingly good part of this deal. I have to say that I share the regret expressed by Mrs Lotte Rod, because it has to be acknowledged that the release is probably real for the large classes and for significant parts of the intermediate classes, but in many ways it is not real for the youngest schoolchildren. There are some barriers in that you cannot spend the money on leisure or, for that matter, clubs for the slightly older children. I will not trample too much into the problems of the primary school reform. We have stopped doing so a little and have got the debate into such a rather more forward-looking process. I think that's wise. But I cannot help but mention that there was, after all, the small problem in the reform of primary schools that, in addition to what happened around the teachers' working time rules, 1.2 billion was removed. kr. from leisure schemes and clubs to co-finance that school day has become longer. That is why I understand that many people are reacting when we now go the other way and allow it to be shortened and not return part of the money. We stand by the agreement we have made. We would have liked it to have looked different in this respect. On the other hand, I think that if the experience we have with the release of schools means that we can carry on with this or something similar to it, or some of it, then I would very much like to see us reach agreement that the money we took as some otherwise we are giving the municipalities the problem that they cannot actually act or have very difficulty in acting in it. Perhaps some can solve the problem, but you cannot just take the money out of the municipality fund in relation to the way in which the whole municipal economy is regulated and the way in which the service framework is set. After all, we have seen the tumult that has been in the municipalities in terms of cutting an extra bite of the budgets because they could not comply with the service framework. That is exactly the problem if the municipalities wanted to take money out of their pockets and solve the problem of financing the extra time spent by the children in school-free arrangements. So we support the proposal here. We think it is a very sensible proposal, but it has the problem I have raised here. And if we could solve it, that is, if the Minister says that we will solve it during the committee procedure, it will not face opposition in the Enhedslisten. But otherwise we will have to solve it if we are to find permanent arrangements similar to those we have got here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014185043	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014185053	Thank you. There have been some good speeches from colleagues here, including from Radicals and SF and Enhedslisten. I am here today instead of Mrs Mai Mercado. It is a great pleasure to deal with this bill, in which we are continuing a number of the increased levels of freedom that we introduced during corona. I can't believe that this worldwide pandemic leads to the famous, you might say, window of opportunity or opportunity where an agreement circle now gives more freedom back to primary school. The most important degree of freedom in this bill is precisely the possibility of converting, as previous rapporteurs have just said, the secondary education to shorten the length of school day or to re-prioritize to e.g. two-teacher schemes. It is only good that the resources released should remain in school. That's all that was missing. Now the bill only applies until 1 August, but we stand at the goal of the conversion exercise until the sun burns out. For the supporting teaching has never worked satisfactorily. It was intended as an answer to getting more people to do better in primary school by introducing the opportunity to teach in new and exciting ways, but the purpose has never been met. From evaluations we can see that the supporting teaching does not work. But it works best in connection with ordinary teaching. That's pretty thoughtful. That is why we also proposed, before corona, that the supporting education should be dropped. There seems to be a fear of touching the elements of the reform of primary schools that do not work. That's where we've always found a little weird. With relatively simple grasps, we can make the primary school even better, and every party should undertake to tackle that, and I think we too are well in the process and find out in agreement. The draft law provides for the possibility of failing to draw up student plans and failing to make quality reports, and I wonder if many municipal employees welcome that decision. Because, yes, it is a large paper tiger, as the Minister of Education has previously described it. Many pupils and their parents never really get to know the curriculum, and the quality reports have become too comprehensive in descriptive statistics, but are still not the steering tool towards better schools as originally intended. So Conservatives back the bill and we look forward to continuing the good discussions on more freedom for schools. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014185345	Thank you. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. That brings us to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014185356	I cannot help noticing that the Conservative rapporteur said: those parts of the school reform that need to be adjusted. I have no doubt at all. The school reform was a gigantic mistake, it must be dropped, completely scrapped because schools must have freedom. Unfortunately, there has been a general view in here at Christiansborg that politicians seem to think that they knew better how to do the good school than the schools themselves did. I myself have tried to teach out in primary school during the reform of primary school, and I can only agree that, for example, making student plans is one of the most hopeless waste of time. Because where you develop and where you really make a difference is in the dialogue with the learner and in the dialogue with the parents that is what we do, among other things. use the school-home conversations for. But it is out at the individual school that you make the good school, and that is why we want to set schools completely free, because we want to ensure that the money follows the individual child so that you can vote with your feet; so that you can choose the school that is best for your own child. This is a small step on the way. But it is really time that, behind the thick walls too, we realize that it is not politicians who do the good school; it is in schools who work together between the professionals and the parents and the pupils. We are voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014185528	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments, so we have now reached the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014185538	Thank you. I mean, I can't stop teasing a little bit about that freedom agenda, can I? When Radicals say that there must be freedom for schools, it is only until the second someone comes up with a decision that Radicals do not like. In other words, what we have decided on in the extremely good agreement we have concluded with each other is that we set aside 83 million. kr. to enable primary and secondary schools to decide whether to extend their opening hours or how to spend the money. If, then, they decide to choose, and that is freedom, when we place a bag of money and say that they have to choose for themselves something other than what Radicals would have chosen if it was Radicals who decided in the municipality in question, then Radicals will no longer be able to participate in freedom. Then it is not freedom, and then I just think that you should say directly that you want to decide it. I have no problem with this in those areas where I would actually like to decide as a parliamentary politician. I do, for example. In addition to the class ceiling and the class ratio in primary and lower secondary schools. But then I just think you should say it directly. Because there is no freedom in saying to some people how to spend the money when they have got a bag of money that we have earmarked for something specific. It's something other than freedom, and I think it's fine that may be needed. When I use it as an introduction to this speech, it is not just to tease, but actually because I seriously believe that we should be careful in the debate on freedom, that we should get things apart. I am very much in favour of teachers having a much greater influence on how school days are organised and how everyday life is organised. I am very little prepared to have very great freedom, for example. just to screw the class quotient up to ten pupils extra in the classes or something. In other words, there is a difference between what we are talking about. Are we talking about the framework and resources for primary school, or are we talking about what you do in everyday life in primary school? I'm gonna go, for example. Nor is it in favour of one being able to decide whether or not to teach mathematics. I think it is a national standard to teach mathematics, of course. It is just to say that we are all hitting something where we believe that there is a greater social concern to take, and that here there must be a national standard for how we do things. But I think there has been such a tendency that in this debate on freedom we are always just saying freedom; and in fact I think we sometimes mean something a little different. Right here, I mean freedom. Then there may be other points where you hit me, for example. on the issue of the class quotient, where I do not want to set free, and where I know that the Radical Left has some other solutions that in reality give greater freedom and I just want to reject them blankly. So we each have our own position on where it is, those edges go in the debate on freedom. I think we need to spend some time discussing with each other during the months to come in the public school circle and in general, and I would be very happy to discuss the school together. I have already called for us to spend time in the new forum for cooperation in the primary school where the parties are sitting. Because I don't hear anyone saying that everything has to be given freely and that you can just decide for yourself. Nor do I hear anyone saying that it is particularly appropriate to have the tight, rigid operating systems that have been laid down over primary school today. Of course, we need to calmly start looking at how we can change them. Some of this is something we are already debating fortunately for that and that means that not everything at all has to wait, at least not for very long, because some of that is what we are doing. Other things come in the time that comes. Then I just want to say thank you to all of you. I think we've been a mighty, very difficult year. I've been so excited about the cooperation we've had through the coronate. Now I have just called in here during the afternoon. You may have seen that at a meeting of the political follow-up group and with the stakeholders, i.e.. all the parties around the school, tomorrow morning. Imagine, where did we have many such meetings at some point, right? Now it's almost been a while since the last call. In fact, however, I would like to highlight one thing which I believe has helped to achieve, as has been the case, in the field of education, namely the commitment that has been made all the way round to help make decisions as well. And that is, whether we are talking in the individual classroom, where teachers and educators for cleaning staff, parents and pupils have contributed to how best to solve the situations we are facing and to see that we have been in a meeting after a meeting, where we have been the political follow-up group, which, moreover, was established at the request of the Left, one of the very first days after shut down. In other words, we have each played in our own way with ideas on how best to deal with the situation we are facing. Then we've held mini-interrogations throughout the coronate. That is what we have when I hold stakeholder meetings, because then we will have all those who are normally consultative parties, and then they will offer the various rules we have made. That is what they have done with the agreement we are discussing here today. I think it has helped to qualify the work we have done quite wildly. I think there are so many thistles that have been lured out. That was one of the things I was most sleepless about when we shut down: losing the consultation stages, because in all the years I have been to Christiansborg, I have always used the consultation answers very much for legislation. So what do you do if you suddenly can't hold hearings because everything has to go so fast? We managed to manage together to get those kicks in, and I think that has been incredibly valuable. Well, now everyday life has returned on long stretches in classrooms where the students are with their comrades. And it is a huge relief for all of us that this is the way it is, but there is still a professional job to be done, both in terms of well-being and communities and in relation to the things some have lost in connection with online teaching. Because there are some things and the nuances must with the professional have thrived incredibly well, and there are some that have socially thrived incredibly well, and there are some that both one and the other are incredibly good; and so there are also some who, on the other hand, had it really difficult, both socially and professionally. This means that teachers, who already have a task in relation to educational differentiation and to have a community hang together in a classroom, will, of course, have a bigger job in the school year than it is normal because it has been a completely abnormal situation. It has also been unpredictable what it would be about, and what would be best at. Is it to create a two-teacher scheme that is needed because very many of the students had difficulty understanding the mathematics teaching in 8.b when it was online, well then it may be that that's what you do. In other classes, it can be other things you've had a really hard time with. So in this way we have given very much freedom to schools in this school year. Now there are more people who make such pre-discounts and think that it should always be the case that school days should be shorter, and I know that is a very great wish of some parties. To that I would just say that if we go back 50 years in school history, we had 1,200 hours a year; now we are down to 900 hours. This means that a long time reduction has been made in the school sector, so that you have landed down to 900 hours. And it's a little special that right now, when the number of hours is so low, you think the school day is very long. I think that is linked to something other than the hour, because then you would really have thought that the school day was long 50 years ago and you didn't. Back then, the school was more practical. That is why I believe that in this debate we should at least have the nuances of having, in addition to the differences of opinion that are inherently possible, a really important discussion of how theoretically our school has become. I think that some of what also happened in the coronatide was actually that the students came out much more and received many more different types of teaching than what has been possible in everyday life otherwise. There are some of the things we have put down over primary school, an obstacle to everyday life, but there is also a great deal of what you can actually do, in other words where it can be done within the legislation that exists today. So something has to be changed; other things can be done on the basis of the rules that already exist. But I look very much forward to those debates and look forward to having something new and really exciting public school policy done, not least because we have established together about the school as the new cooperation forum. I think that is the end of many years of war on primary school. There should be no war on primary school; there should be a healthy democratic conversation about how best to run school together. The school is for all of us, and we are all children there, whether the parents vote on the Enhedslisten or the New Civil or Radical Left or the SF or the Social Democracy or the Left, or whatever they do. And all our children must be able to reflect themselves in the primary school, which is why it is best for our primary school to have a good democratic conversation about it instead of having a war going on about it. So thank you very much for your support for setting up the forum where the parties of the Folketing have also participated very actively in the talks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190442	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190445	Thank you for your reply on freedom, but it is not freedom when we know that the municipalities, for every hour you shorten the school day, have an expense of this 180-200 million. kr. for increased opening hours in the sfo. So if the municipalities would like to use this freedom, they have a bill of about half a billion, and what we've dropped off in the deal tied or not was then these about 83 million. kr. So there is just too little money for the municipalities to actually have a freedom. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: what exactly is the Minister's answer to the municipalities that would like to use this freedom, but who do not even have the money to pay for the increased opening hours in the SFO?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190533	Well, I simply do not accept the premise of that question. In other words, one saves money on shortening school days, and on the one hand money has been set off, so that there are actually means to say that the sfo must be longer open if the way one shortens is distributed over the different years at school. It is clear, then, that if a municipality chooses to do this differently, it is in it that freedom consists of, that is, that they can choose to do it. That is why we can say that they can actually adapt in such a way that they use the money to keep the sfo longer open.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190605	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190607	After all, we have agreed with each other that the money should remain in school, because the whole idea of the shorter day of school is that, as a school, you really have the choice between whether you want to have hours or whether you want to have a shorter day and then put an extra teacher or educator on or divide the pupils into small teams. This presupposes that the money stays in school, and then the municipalities have a bill if the sfo has to open earlier. Where are the municipalities going to find half a billion?
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190639	However, I still do not accept the premise of the question. I do not recognise the figure, that is to say it is such a large amount of money we are talking about. That's why it's a little hard to answer the question, because it's like you're asking, "Have you stopped beating your wife?" Well, if you've never beaten your wife, it's a question that's a little hard to answer. And I simply do not recognise that the amount is so large.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190659	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211014190713	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow Friday 15 October 2021 at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
