ParlaMint-DK_20210122100005	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I received notification of yesterday's change of government, 21 January 2021. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Following my recommendation that the Royal Resolution of 21 January 2021 provide that the Ministry of Transport and Housing: matters relating to elderly housing, general housing, study and youth housing, free-care homes, private rental and urban renewal, matters relating to cooperative housing associations and other housing communities, matters relating to ownership, matters relating to village renewal pools, matters relating to construction, etc., including the building law and the building regulations, including the relevant institutions, etc., matters relating to the action against parallel societies, including ghetto representatives and the parallel society statement, as well as matters relating to Christiania, the Ministry of Social and Home Affairs: the responsibility for matters relating to home affairs, including those relating to rural areas, including the LAG scheme (local action groups), regional and rural policy statements and the coordinating responsibility for rural development of an area, including the law on summer and camping, etc., the law on colonial gardens and the law on planning (the planning law), as well as matters relating to rural areas, including the LAG scheme (local action groups), regional and rural development, and the coordination of responsibilities for rural development, and rural development, including the law on the area, and the area, and the right to provide for the right to provide for the right of protection, and the right of protection, including the right to the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right Sign. Mette Frederiksen Then there are the following reviews: Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. Β 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to outpatient treatment for the victims of violence and their children) and motion for a resolution No. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to outpatient treatment for perpetrators of violence). Ulla Tørnæs (V): Request no. F 37 (How will the government ensure a Denmark in better education balance?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210122100054	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122100115	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122100148	Our society is changing and our values are changing. That is, of course, why we in the Danish People's Party have actually got the tradition that once a year we call for such a question debate, where we can get things reversed, in relation to what each party thinks about the immigration that continues to take place and whether it is useless or valuable. There may be differences of opinion on this, and that is what we need to debate. We just have to acknowledge that Denmark has become a more raw society since 1983. Many things are happening that we cannot accept. There's an incredible insecurity around here. I noticed very well that yesterday the Minister for Integration was out of the question, that there had now been a change and that there were not as many asylum seekers as had been done before. That's good. We very much approve of this in the Danish People's Party. There may be several reasons. There has been massive pressure for some tightening, and so has been the case. I would like to say quietly that the Danish People's Party has probably been very hard to tighten up and put pressure on, so other parties went along. There has also been a corona situation which has affected in many ways, and which has also affected it, in relation to the fact that there have not been as many as we had expected. Unfortunately, we have to expect that when it is over the sooner, the better, because we do not want corona then asylum seekers will return to Denmark. It is not the only problem, that is, that they come to Denmark. The problem is that you become an immigrant and not always in a good way, far from always. We see what is going on around society: car burns in strained residential areas. The media don't really want to write about it anymore, but it happens. It's become so much everyday and too common, so it's not news. We see that there are traders who are forced to pay protection money. There's no respect for the authorities. We can see that in relation to the covid-19. I will deal with this more in my rapporteur's speech. The authority of Danish society is not present. We do not comply with the recommendations of the authorities. Firefighters are attacked, teachers are pigged and subjected to violence, and everything reminiscent of Danish authority is a red cloth in the eye of some of the immigrants who have come to the country, and in particular their descendants who are in Denmark. We cannot continue to accept this, i.e. a kind of everyday jihad. We do not want that in Denmark, and I will always go on this platform and advocate it, and I will defend it in society at all times, namely that we should not or cannot accept it. A recent trend is that immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, predominantly from North Africa and Arab countries, come together across national and cultural divides. They come together about the religion of Islam. For example, inhabited Kurds have gone to war for the Islamic State, although the Islamic State has killed Kurds in Syria. Loyalty should be in Denmark. It doesn't always, far from always. So it is incredibly important that we should have this very, very broad debate, where we can each as rapporteur and as a political party deal with the problem which, unfortunately, still remains in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122100519	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. There are precisely no brief comments now, but thank you for just getting the platform ready for the next speaker. In reply to the question, I can now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122100554	Thank you. The government's position is clear: Denmark is based on and must of course build on common Danish values. We cannot and must not accept the emergence of parallel societies where there are standards or values contrary to the fundamental principles on which our good societies are based. In other words, we must stand by what we believe: that democracy and human rights, of course, take precedence over religion; that both men and women, girls and boys are free to live their lives without being subject to social control from the family or outdated ideas about gender roles and sexuality; that duty takes precedence over right from a fundamental expectation that everyone will contribute as much as possible to the community. Fortunately, there are many with foreign backgrounds who share these Danish values, who are committed to their local communities, on education and at work, and who are fulfilling important social tasks, for example. right now in the midst of the global pandemic, and taking responsibility for the community, and who, moreover, are often themselves in the midst of a difficult battle of values, fighting to wrest themselves out of a oppressive culture. Unfortunately, however, there are too many examples of the opposite: loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls; religious authorities interfering in legal divorces; young girls harassed on Danish soil and even threatened on life, because they have become for it is tragic, it is unacceptable and it is unusable. The need to pursue a strict immigration policy is just as necessary today as when the government took office. At that time there was concern in some quarters as to whether this government would maintain and pursue the strict immigration policy. Fortunately, that was wrong at the time, and fortunately it is wrong today. For it is absolutely crucial for Denmark that the influx is controlled. The number of people who come here doesn't just matter, it doesn't matter whether a community should accept one foreign family or ten should actually say so itself. Many of the problems we face today, which were also reproduced here from the platform by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard a few minutes ago, are unfortunately a long way back. Too many came here, too many did not want integration, and for too long we left behind. The policy of the past aliens was a mistake... so simple can be said. Basically, we have been too uncertain and too unclear in our demands for the foreigners who have come to Denmark. It has been unwise and it is the root of many of the problems we face today. Because if we meet each other and make demands on each other, then we also take each other seriously and show the necessary respect for each other. If you do not get up every morning, or for that matter every night, and go to work or otherwise take an active part in our society, it is undeniably harder to learn the Danish language, and you do not meet Danish values and Danish culture sufficiently in your everyday life. It is becoming more difficult to see that the social standards under which you live can be oppressive simply because you do not know about the good Danish alternative that is just outside the door. If you live in isolation at home in the apartment, you are not confronted with the reality you have to live in when you are part of Danish society. It is a reality where you are free to marry the one you want to marry; free to choose exactly the friends you want when you are young and young; free to dress as it suits you, unless of course it is oppressive. It is a reality where men and women have equal rights and equal opportunities and the same duties. It is also in the meeting with Danish society that one finds out that one can trust the police and the authorities and that, moreover, one must treat them properly; that we are, at all events, a country that is primarily based on trust in each other, on the confidence that each of us is doing our best to make the community work. In other words, it is precisely in the encounter with other people that cohesion arises. Therefore, parallel societies are subversive to the Danish social model. And that is why we need to become clearer in relation to the demands we make of people who come to Denmark from outside. In the government, we will rethink the integration effort so that it should be based more on clear expectations and demands with a focus on law and duty, but in reverse order: first comes the duty and then comes the rights. It must basically be the case if you come to Denmark and, contrary to expectations, cannot support yourself, that in return for any benefit you receive, you must contribute what is equivalent to a normal week of work. The very best thing is to get a job, and until then you have to work to get a job. Because that is and will be the best way to ensure integration. The second best thing, of course, is to have a daily life that is equivalent to having a job, so you get away in the morning and get used to that part of the Danish culture. This is the basic idea we are looking forward to implementing, and I hope for broad support for it here in the Parliamentary Assembly. We want a maximum of 30%. not Western immigrants or descendants in general residential areas. The fact that we live together is an essential condition for meeting the Danish values here too. Unfortunately, there are those who do not want to join the Danish values at all. That is why the objective of better integration must go hand in hand with the fight against all forms of radicalisation and anti-democratic thinking. We must not accept that Danish democracy is being hated. Radicalisation must never be protected; it must be revealed. The government has already tabled a bill banning the receipt of anti-democratic donations. This must prevent people who oppose or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights from financing associations and the like in Denmark, thereby spreading their anti-democratic ideas, as we have done, among other things. Have seen in some Muslim mosques. At the same time, we must not be able to preach anti-democratic and radicalised messages. The government will therefore make a bill on sermons in languages other than Danish, which just takes action against those preachers. Most importantly, the government will continue its strict foreign policy. We are pleased that today there is a broad political majority in favour of its continuation, but we also need to do more than that. We have a European asylum system that has actually collapsed. Right now, in relation to the influx of asylum, it is true that there are not many asylum seekers coming to Europe. This is probably due first and foremost to the situation of covid-19 and, of course, not to the fact that we have created a fundamentally better system. We are not only abandoning the peoples of Europe; we are also abandoning the poor people who live a bad life where they are and who, in search of a new life, are putting their lives in the hands of smugglers. Those who cannot afford to pay for the flight remain, and that is why we not only have an inefficient refugee system; we also have an inhumane refugee system. The government is working on a model for asylum treatment at a reception centre in a non-EU country. This means that we must be able to transfer asylum seekers to Denmark from a third country. Shortly before Christmas, we had a longer debate here in Parliament on this very subject, and I am pleased that the government is not alone in this idea. As I said in that debate, this will undoubtedly be difficult, but I do not consider it impossible. And the alternative is to let a dysfunctional asylum system continue... it wouldn't be the right thing to do. It is the opinion of the lawyers that the Government's wishes can be done within our international obligations. This is an important step in continuing work. And that is why, in this House too, the government will table a legislative proposal to ensure that we can transfer to a third country when we have an agreement at some point. To return to where the debate started today, I would say that we must take on the character of a society and stand by what we believe in, the values that make Denmark Denmark Denmark. A strong community is the government's starting point, and the government's starting point remains a strict foreign policy. Otherwise, we will never make integration work. I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101448	Thank you, Prime Minister. One brief comment is now available for the rapporteurs, and the first to ask for the floor is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101458	It is not the first time I have heard that the Prime Minister says: I have been wrong; we have been wrong. This has been done for quite a number of years, but it is even more important that we really tackle the root of the nettle. The Prime Minister probably knows that I have repeatedly stood there at the desk for oral questions and asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration about incredibly many things, precisely to protect our values in Denmark • about why Muslim girls cannot participate in school excursions, why in the world swimming halls should be split up, why in the world you cannot ban scarf in public institutions, etc. etc. We can ban burka from in here, but apparently we can't do all the other things. Locally, unfortunately, social democracy is most often at odds with what I hear, for example. The Prime Minister is now saying, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration says, and as I am sure Mr. Rasmus Stoklund later will say from the platform. When does a collective social democracy, including local ones, tackle this, because I think that is very, very important?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101607	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101609	In fact, I think that the rapporteur raises an important debate in relation to how far we should go in national rules in order to oppose social control. I think it is so awful and so wrong when, for example, in a municipality you allow gender-separated swimming; I think it is so wrong. I think it is so wrong when a girl, because she has a certain religious or cultural background, cannot be allowed to attend a camp school. And when I hear that you are experiencing what in the old days was called the seminary of educators and teachers, they now have some fine name; I can't remember what, but it's probably still a seminary that there are students who won't receive sex education, and that thus you can't prepare for the task they face as a schoolteacher, because of religion, I think we have to meddle more. We need to find out how to do it properly, so I am happy to enter into that discussion. I would just like to say that yes, I believe that the policy on foreigners has been wrong for many years. Too many people have come here with non-Western backgrounds who do not want to be integrated into Danish society, and it is good that it has been stopped, and we owe a great deal of thanks to the Danish People's Party for having been the prime engine of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101727	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101730	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech. I noticed that the Prime Minister mentioned these loudspeaker-enhanced prayer calls, and I would really like to hear the Prime Minister: what does the Prime Minister think this spread of these prayer calls that we are experiencing is an expression of?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101751	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101753	You have to be careful to attribute motives to other people, but it is hard to see it as anything other than that you want Islam as a religion to fill more in public space in Denmark, and that is an approach that I do not share.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101812	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101816	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, like the Prime Minister, we are very concerned about the women who are subjected to negative social control, and now I hear the Prime Minister say that part of the solution is to pursue a strict immigration policy. We've just seen, unfortunately, that a lot of women get hit in the wrong way by this tight alien policy. They lose their residence permit, they do not have access to citizenship, they do not know their rights and therefore do not apply for help. So I would actually say that these women, whom we all want to help so badly in here, are caught up in the tight immigration policy. So maybe it wasn't about time we secured better access to citizenship and that we ensured that if you come to Denmark as a family couple, you shouldn't be here on your husband's residence permit? For it is clear that you will not be divorced if it means that you lose your residence base, and I think that, unfortunately, that angle is lacking in the Prime Minister's speech today and in the policy of the government in general. So I would like to hear a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101921	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122101922	I have to say quite generally about citizenship that I think we have had everything, too lenient rules in Denmark in total, too many years. Too many opportunities have been given to obtain Danish citizenship. It is a very, very great privilege to have Danish citizenship, to have that privilege. So, generally speaking, we are very much opposed to any relaxation in this area. On the other hand, we want to tighten up the restrictions in this area even more, with the reservation, of course, that there may be one small area to be looked at. So no, I am certainly not in favour of it being easier to obtain Danish citizenship. When it comes to women's rights, it has nothing to do with citizenship. I believe that what is crucial is that we must be absolutely clear that everyone is aware of their rights when they come to Danish society. But the prerequisite for achieving good integration is that there will be no more than we can integrate, and this has been done for too many years. But, of course, I share the desire for better integration of women who want to be integrated into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102031	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102034	First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for a very good speech. After all, we Conservatives agree that the policy of foreigners in the past has failed, and we are also very pleased, let us call it the new course of social democracy, where we have been able to work together on a lot of individual matters. The Prime Minister himself, I believe, mentioned the ban on donations from abroad and so on. At the same time, however, I feel that the Social Democratic Party is making enormous promises to the Danish people, which it is very difficult to fulfil. We have previously discussed the reception centre outside Europe. There will be some legislation that will make it possible, but I find it difficult to see the concrete measures. Yesterday we read that the Minister for Integration says that the target is zero asylum seekers, and that is also very good. After all, we do not want a spontaneous migration through Europe. We want to bring people here through the quota system, but now that a Social Democratic government minister goes out and says zero asylum seekers, is that a promise that the Prime Minister really believes can be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102141	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102142	No, that is exactly what the Minister said yesterday, which is our objective, and of course we cannot make a promise about it. The rapporteur knows that too. But I think it is important, when we talk about foreign policy, that we keep doing what we can do here and now, and I would also like to thank you for your cooperation, i.e. among other things. in the area of citizenship, but also, in relation to the fact that we have now tightened the rules in relation to Syrian warriors and hence potential traitors. And, of course, we want to go further along that path, that is to say, the disqualification of citizenship, for example in connection with gang crime, and that is where I believe in good cooperation. We cannot give a promise of zero asylum seekers, but we can set out the vision that we also did before the elections, namely that we want a completely new asylum system and then do everything we can to fulfil those promises.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102231	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102235	Thank you. We are debating immigration today, but it should rightly be a debate about the challenges that are primarily with people coming from the Middle East, people who subscribe to some form of Islamic thinking, and especially the political part of Islam. Almost a year ago, a large report from VIVE showed that many women are being held in Islamic marriages. It created an outcry again on the left, and there seemed to be a will to do something about this. It is the case that in Denmark we have a number of recognised Islamic religions, and with that recognition we also give them some privileges, among others. the right to marry husbands. In the Islamic marriage called nikah, there is also an Islamic bond in relation to the divorce. If you are to get out of an Islamic marriage, there are certain criteria that are not in line with the way you can get divorced in Denmark, but which are, of course, in the ritual that is in the Islamic wedding. So we give the Imams a right to devote themselves to certain terms that we do not accept. And we in New Citizens think that's crazy. Is the Prime Minister and the Government willing to see whether we can change the requirements for recognition of religions in Denmark so that we do not give recognition and therefore special rights to religions that maintain women in marriages?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102403	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102404	Yes, we would very much like to discuss that. It will have to be the case in Denmark that the law we adopt in the field of divorce is the one that applies, and of course it should not be able to be trumped by anyone. And we have seen many examples of women with Muslim background who want to divorce it is also part of the Danish culture, it must be said, for many of us, not all, but for many of us, and who are then held back because of an interpretation in their mosque and by an imam. So I would very, very much like to be a part of the discussion. May I just say that it is quite true that most integration problems are in Denmark, among others. With crime and other serious problems, is it true that some groups of refugees and immigrants are more involved than others? However, I would like to insist that we must be careful that there are not too many people coming to our country at all. Otherwise, I simply do not believe that our cohesion can continue to exist. It's already challenged far too many places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102500	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102503	Immigration of people from Muslim countries is in itself a potential problem because there are sometimes great cultural differences and major contradictions between Muslims and the communities surrounding them. But it is an even greater problem in a social democratic country such as Denmark, where you can live on the edge of society and still get large benefits paid in the form of transfer income and free benefits from the public sector, that is, where, even if you do not fit into society, so you can get a job, you can still live really, really well financially, because you get so many things free from the public sector. Most recently, we have seen that immigrant workers tell the case workers whether they do not want to work or that their families do not want them to get to work, and it is, of course, true that it is better that they are put into some form of activation for 37 hours a week. But what does the Prime Minister think about the municipalities and the way the case workers enforce the rules of availability out there? Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the enforcement of the rules of availability for cash assistance, and if the Prime Minister is not satisfied, what will the Prime Minister do to better enforce them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102612	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102613	First of all, as regards what Denmark might look like in relation to other European countries, for example, and problems of non-integration, it has to be said that things are going a lot differently, including in societies where there are lower benefits. That applies, for example. a country like France, and that is a country like England. There are also very, very major problems with parts of the Muslim environment. So it has to be said that integrating many with a Muslim background in Europe is a particular challenge and that we have not succeeded with it quite well in many places. So it is really just to say that I agree that a society that has a very well-functioning welfare society is particularly challenged if people who come here do not have a very, very high work ethic and that all of them are doing everything they can to contribute. I do not believe that the rules on availability will be enforced well enough in Denmark, and they have not been enforced for many decades. If they had been, we would not have seen women with an immigrant background who have lived 20-30 years on first aid and now on cash aid. So we have a problem here and it is a problem that relates to families for some, but it is also a problem that relates to a society that is not clear enough in making the necessary demands. That is why we are proposing a 37-hour hard activation effort, both to help women in terms of equality, as Mrs Lund mentioned earlier, but also, of course, to ensure a better balance in this society at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102740	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. We shall now proceed to the debate and therefore to the general rules for short remarks, so that other Members can also take part in the debate. It is therefore first the rapporteur of the questions, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122102808	Then we are back together to discuss and debate the government's value policy, focusing on the challenges that exist. And we can already hear at this stage that there can be a great deal of agreement that there are very many challenges with a nice and positive word that comes with immigration. After all, as I said, it has become a permanent annual tradition in which the parties of the Folketing can reverse the foreign policy situation and highlight some topical issues. Let me start a place where there's been a problem for years. For decades it has been the case that Denmark's Statistics divide the world's countries into Western and non-Western countries. The fact is that the group of non-western countries is enormously wide and is very imprecise when it comes to putting its finger on sore points, in other words where the problems with immigrants are, which we were not allowed to talk loudly about for many years. For as long as I can remember and it's been a long time, for example, people from non-western countries have had a higher rate of crime than Western people or, for that matter, Danes. For example, it has. residents from Thailand, the Philippines and Brazil felt very offended and indeed with good reason. For if you delve deeper into the figures, it turns out that people from these countries have a low rate of crime and a high rate of employment, as opposed to people from Lebanon and Somalia and stateless Palestinians etc., but it does not come out when it is all mixed together in a large bulb called non-western. In the Danish People's Party we have therefore called for a division of the group not Western. We have proposed a group of Muslim countries, as we have a clear feeling that it is people from the countries that are the major problems. Before Christmas, the Minister of Integration announced that a new group of countries, known as MENAP countries, would be used in the future, consisting of typical countries in the Middle East: Afghanistan and Pakistan, and then Turkey has joined. The MENAP countries are an international grouping, and the Minister has then supplemented, as I said, with Turkey because we have many immigrants from there. The MENAP group is an innovation and I see it as a clear concession to all those who have been interested in this area for years. Pr. On 1 January 2020 there were 516,000 immigrants and descendants from non-western countries in Denmark, and of them some 280,000 come from MENAP countries, i.e. those countries that cause enormous problems for Danish society. Now it will be possible to put your finger more precisely on the problems and challenges of residents from those countries. We must act on an enlightened basis, because we must have the prune on the counter, as the Minister of Integration usually says. I therefore assume that the Ministry of Integration and Danmarks Statistik will now begin to spray out statistics with figures for the new group so that we can get a clearer picture of the extent of the problems with resident people from the Middle East. Then I have to say, and it is in contrast to last year that there has been a new problem. We live in a time when corona takes up a lot of space, and without exception many immigrants and descendants also stand out here, unfortunately, to the negative side. In late summer 2020 it began to emerge that the infection with the corona virus increased dramatically in immigrant-heavy municipalities. At one point, figures from the Statens Serum Institute showed that seven out of ten who are registered infected had ethnic origins other than Danish. The Somali and Lebanese environment was badly affected in Aarhus, and also in the Copenhagen West region, the infection among immigrants was large. In B.T. explained to an immigrant with Lebanese background on 12 August the reason for this: Basically Muslims live according to the guideline that the life we are living now is a test. That means something better awaits us when we're dead. This means that you have an indifference to the corona virus; it is still higher powers that decide whether you get the corona virus. Well, just such a sentence says how far apart we are. And what is the problem is that in the families the wife listens to the husband in relation to what to do in relation to the corona virus, and the husband listens to the imam instead of listening to Søren Brostrøm. And I don't think that's very sensible, but that's the way it is. The man went on to explain that he did not believe that the Muslims showed socialism, for example. at the large burials where it is important for Muslims to be many gathered to say goodbye to the deceased. An example of this is also the funeral of the poet Yahya Hassan in Aarhus in May, where everything was gathered, too many people. The man really thought that now should be the end of the big funerals with many participants. In September, the media reported a big wedding in Skovlund in Ballerup Municipality. On a video recording you could see the wedding guests dancing hand in hand in chain dance. The incident occurred at a time when the infection was enormously widespread in the western part of Copenhagen. But there was no respect for the Corona recommendations of the National Health Service. The mayor got really pissed off and the police reported the wedding planner. In November, Helsingør Dagblad could describe that covid-19 hits too many with immigrant backgrounds. In the municipality is 13%. immigrants or descendants, while 36%. Of the newly infected, it is. And later this month B.T. report that the parties are now just moving to Malmö, because it is no longer possible to gather so many people in Denmark. The article reports about one of Malmö's largest cultural and event houses, where the holder had been contacted by particularly resident families from Afghanistan, Iran and other Arab countries. There had already been a big wedding party with an Afghan family with 200 guests. Some have tried to explain the increased infection among immigrants with language barriers, bourgeois jobs, and that many live together, etc. etc. Those explanations are bullshit. There is so much information about coronavirus in Danish and other languages. Residents who do not master Danish or English very well often follow what is going on in their home countries, and since the corona virus is worldwide, you also get much information from it. I have noticed that the number of asylum seekers in Denmark by 2020 sets the bottom record, and that is good and nice for Denmark. But we have to move on, and we have to, and that is what this debate is all about. Therefore, the Danish People's Party has a proposal for adoption which reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that immigration to Denmark through migration and family reunification after decades of effort has been reduced, but notes that in many respects society is still adversely affected by the large immigration that has taken place since 1983. There is therefore a need to establish that migrants and their families should return to their countries of origin, and the government should promote all measures to support it. The Danish Parliament also notes that there are too many people with Muslim backgrounds living in Denmark who do not want or want to embrace Danish values and traditions, but want to retain values that are far removed from Danish values. The Folketing therefore urges the government to take initiatives that support the return home of non-integrated migrants from Muslim countries, in particular, with family. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103606	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. And the proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103618	Thank you. And first of all I would like to say that I think it is a good tradition that has been established here, that once a year we sit up in the helicopter and have such a slightly broader debate on the policy of aliens and values, so first and foremost I will sign up to the Danish People's Party for that tradition. Secondly, I would like to comment briefly on this about the slightly more honest figures about the MEAPT countries, as it has been called. In the Minister's chronicle, which has been discussed a few times already, he uses some of these figures, and as service information I can try to read some of them out, because that is just a start: if you look at immigrant women originating in the 24 countries we are talking about here, then only 42 per cent. at work in 2018. The proportion of young men from the 24 countries who have violated the penal code is four times higher than the proportion of convicted of other foreign origins. It comes back to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's point about the fact that the non-western immigrants are doing very differently, depending on where in the world they come from. Finally, however, I would just like to say that when the Minister launched this, he made a great deal of sense of the fact that these were some figures that could also be used as a member of parliament when questions were put to the Minister, because then he could give some more honest and precise answers. So it's just a call for some good committee issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103735	Thank you. Yes, yes, and that invitation is certainly taken with kissing hands. - Sir? - Yes, sir. Rasmus Stoklund has no doubt whatsoever. It is fine to read from what the Minister says, but then I have to say: what are you going to do about it? That is what we are constantly faced with: there are so many declarations of intent. And we saw that in the election campaign too, and I have also listened to this debate, of course. And what have we lived up to? There are, in fact, a large number of proposals, lots of proposals and we will probably discuss this a little later in the debate, there is not so much time now that has not been met at all. And there I just have to turn the question over and say to the rapporteur: it is all right to acknowledge, and it is all right to apologize because that is what we are doing for many years of failed policy. It is quite appalling to listen to, I think, but it is fine that you do it, because then at least you have come this far. So the next question is: what are you going to do about it? Because it's no use just giving a toast and just thinking it's all awful and that there are now challenges and troubles and crime, and I don't know what. And here I mention the current situation of covid-19, which I think is essential. But I need answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103846	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103848	I do not know whether I can answer at all now, but I will come back to it a little, even when I go to the platform later. One of the things on which we have a common focus is, after all, negative social control. And that was the last figure the Minister had in his chronicle, that is to say, compared with the 24 countries that are part of the MENAPT group, there are far more women from these 24 countries in the country's crisis centres than young women of Danish origin. This is another example of our having a problem. There we have together, I hope, the legislative work in progress right now in order to take much harder action against negative social control. But I have to go back to some of those things from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122103933	Well, at least I'll look forward to it. And then, of course, I'm gonna challenge mr. Rasmus Stoklund, when he comes to the floor as rapporteur. For again, I feel a little at this stage that we are standing here and confirming each other that there is something really bad and that, in terms of social control too, what we have to read in the newspapers, as recently here in Berlingske, is quite terrible: that a quite young girl is being shattered because she has allowed herself to display a slightly more Western mind. What are we all asking for? And there I am left with my own case, as I mentioned before: I have repeatedly stood here and asked the Minister for Integration in relation to scarves, swimming halls and gender-separated everything. What's the government doing? Nothing!
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104014	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104019	Thank you. Immigration from Muslim countries is in itself an issue to which all the countries of the world must relate, but we are not making it easier for ourselves here in Denmark. The Danish People's Party has helped with a ceiling and integration benefit to ensure that it does not pay so much for people to come here and do nothing and yet enjoy the benefits of the Danish society. On the other hand, however, the Danish People's Party has also done other things that went in the opposite direction. 70-80 per cent. of immigrants receive an old-age check when they reach the age of retirement. In the municipality of Ishøj it is 70%, and in the municipality of Copenhagen it is 80%. of immigrants who are pensioners who receive old-age checks. It has been constantly raised by the Danish People's Party, and it is a check that is given to people, some of whom have not made any effort during their working lives, and now they are left without any pension savings. Does not the Danish People's Party sometimes consider that the benefits that the Danish People's Party is helping to raise all the time go very much to immigrants and that this is also a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104132	Well, it's a big problem, but don't blame me. That's kind of how I see what's being said. But it's not at all my fault that there are so many older immigrants in Denmark that I would like to be disqualified. It's not my fault. It may be other rapporteurs, too, maybe Mr. Ole Birk Olesen may be the cause of this, and it's bad. And now to help, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is on the way, I can also give another example: the municipalities can provide subsidies for people who want to take care of their own children at home. Well, it's really annoying that there are so many Muslim families who use it because they don't want to send their children to daycare for many reasons, so they just get the money, instead of the municipalities abstaining from it, because there are so many Muslim families who use it. So there are just so many drawbacks about this, but don't blame me and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104221	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104222	But I do. For the immigrants are in Denmark now, and there are limits to how many we can send home, so it is a given thing that they are here. We can ensure that there are not so many new ones, and we would be happy to do so, but those who are here can send home very little unless they commit crime. So they're here. So when the Danish People's Party contributes to the fact that, even if they do not make an effort during their working lives, they must have a very generous old-age check when they become folk pensioners, and when we know that immigrants are over-represented among those who get old-age checks, then the Danish People's Party helps to make this problem bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104258	I'm not sure they're over-represented. But Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is really going to have to take away Mr. And Mrs Jensen, who has nothing else, this old-age check, because a completely failed policy has been in force for quite many years? So we're just gonna say it's just too bad you can't get it because there's too many immigrants getting it? So I do not have that view. I would very much like to take advantage of Mrs Petersen, Mr. Jensen and so on, who need the old cheque very much. I do not know how many others this happens to, but I have to say that I still get away cards and letters expressing gratitude from the Danish elderly fellow citizens who receive the elderly cheque. I haven't gotten it from Fatima anything or from Mohammed something, but I actually get it from a lot of Danish senior citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104346	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104349	Thank you to the rapporteur. I noted that the rapporteur gave an example of a woman who had been shattered in Berlingske and that is horrible, as the rapporteur said. But in the same way we also read about Muslim women who, with their children, are attacked verbally and physically. We have evidence that the number of hate crimes in relation to Muslim minorities is increasing. I just want to hear what the Danish People's Party has to say about that. And I would like to stress here, in order to hold a completely sober and proper debate, that the fight against the challenges that are, of course, does not rule out the fight against discrimination and racism as well. So I just want to listen to the many, many horrible examples of women being attacked verbally and physically and being spit on what the Danish People's Party thinks about it and those women.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104448	Well, I think hate crimes are abhorrent, whether they be Muslim women, men, homosexuals, sir. Sikandar Siddique, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, regardless of who is hurt, who is verbally or physically attacked in Danish society. Either way, I think it's awful... I think so. I mean, there is no other view than, for example, that I have. Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104513	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104514	I'm really glad to hear that. I just think that the second part of the debate and the focus on that part of the debate are missing when we have these conversations in the Folketing. That is why I want to hear whether the Danish People's Party, while at the same time combating everything that needs to be combated and putting in place so that people get to work, etc., will help to create a national action plan to protect the minorities who are exposed to hate crime, discrimination, verbal and physical attacks and that we can do so, while also combating the challenges that are also in the debate and are around the whole value policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104555	No, we won't. I mean, why on earth should you have some national action plan alone because of that? We have to take it over a broad bank. We should not accept violence in this society under any circumstances. I have to say, and I don't know what it's like for mr. Sikandar Siddique is also very concerned about how many criminal Arab boys are attacking and harassing Danish citizens in every way possible. We're gonna have to bring them under that umbrella. So, in general, I think that we should denounce all forms of violence to such an extent, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104632	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104635	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. I guess I'm feeling a little like Mr. Kim. Ole Birk Olesen, that I also have some things to blame or blame the Danish People's Party for. For now, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, it is the Danish People's Party which has voted on the integration policy for the last 20 years, and I also believe that integration policy has failed, but I believe that it is for some other reasons than for both Mr Kjærs and Mr Kjærs. Ole Birk Olesen and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. I believe that all the stumbling threads that have been laid for integration by weakening Danish education and by ensuring that people sit on poverty benefits so that they cannot even afford to buy medicines for their children have prevented people, for example. can learn to speak properly Danish, which is the entrance ticket to our education system and our labour market. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard: what do we have to do to correct this? Shouldn't we have some better Danish education? Should we not remove some of these stumble threads that have been laid out in order to integrate properly into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104742	Now, in general terms, I believe that integration belongs only to those who really want to be in Denmark and that we should primarily send people home and have a total asylum stop. I think that is perfectly clear, and we should not just talk about integration alone, because it is both ways. I have stood on this platform time after time and have been blamed that we are not doing enough. Yes, I must certainly promise that we will, and that is the worst nonsense to say that you do not offer that people can learn Danish. A lot of people don't take it. There are people who come here and who have no idea how to find out what they really need to do in order to be allowed to write things down. After all, we receive people from countries that so badly do not even understand what is happening in Denmark, and then Danish can be difficult. But I think that being bilingual is very much to be able to both your mother tongue, which I actually think you can hold on to, but also Danish, and you must indeed speak Danish out in Danish society, in exactly the same way as Danes do abroad. We offer, and we offer, and it is very often that it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104851	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104853	Now I do not agree that it is true that we are offering and offering, because what has actually happened is that precisely mother tongue teaching, which I am pleased about Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard herself has been impaired. I fully agree that when you know your mother tongue, it is actually easier to learn to speak Danish. That is why we should offer both mother tongue teaching and proper Danish education, and the Danish education received today, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Dansk Folkeparti have ensured that primarily is labour market-oriented. In other words, we are not learning anything about equality, about the constitution and about our rights in this country, and I think that is one of the reasons why we see major problems with negative social control. Then I would just like to make a final correction, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said earlier: I do not think there are any Kurds living here who go down to fight against it is an important difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104946	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122104947	I think it is quite wrong to have mother tongue teaching completely misunderstood. Well, you have to learn that from your parents. You have to take it with you; I mean that quite clearly. I think it is good that if you come from another country, even if you have to live in Denmark all your life, you can also have your mother tongue. This is not something that should be rejected, but it is not something that we, as a society, should be obliged to maintain. In Denmark, the Danish term is spoken. This is done in society, it is done in school, and it is done in the workplace, and schools should not spend a lot of money on having mother tongue teaching on those, I do not know how many languages there are now in Denmark. This is a huge unnecessary expense which we should disclaim.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105031	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105033	Thank you. In Denmark, we have a multitude of Islamic religions that are recognised, and that means that they have special rights. They will have an opportunity to deduct quotas, as they are called, from taxes. They get an opportunity to invite preachers on special terms. And they get a privilege that's about marrying people. Some time ago we in the New Citizen put forward a proposal to remove the recognition of the Islamic religions, because we do not believe that the Islamic religions should have the special privileges. We do not think there is any reason why the Danes should support them financially. We do not think it is fair that they should be given the opportunity to invite imams on special terms when we know how to preach in the mosques. And we don't like being able to marry people, nikah, with the terms of the Islamic marriage. We were all alone with that proposal, unfortunately. We were hoping that DF would join us. I would very much like to hear from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard what is the reason why DF will not deprive the Islamic religions of these special privileges, which after all mean that the Danes are helping to support them, also financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105148	I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund knows the answer, because I also remember the debate. It was Mrs Krarup who took part in it, and we also had it in the Committee on Integration. The reason for this is that a great many others suffer. Well, it's very hard to discriminate. And I can be in favour of discrimination. We have been through it, including in this debate, that is why we do not do this and that with checks on the elderly and so on. I can be in favour of discrimination, but that is not possible. That is, of course, the problem, and that is what was at the heart of the new citizens' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105213	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105214	Well, the proposal was, in effect, specific to the Islamic religions. So does this mean that DF believes that some Islamic religions should be supported financially and should have special privileges and that others should not? Or is it because the Danish People's Party does not want to support a proposal that puts the finger on the fact that it is the Islamic marriage; that they invite preachers who preach hatred; that we support a democratically rejecting religion and that that is what we want to get rid of?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105255	We must not support an undemocratic religion on any points whatsoever, and I think that we too have proved this many times by the Danish People's Party in this Chamber, so that we have to stand up to it. But as my first answer was, and as I remember the debate that Mrs Krarup had, it was that we had a very difficult time finding out what we were doing in relation to other religions. That is what was at the heart of it, and Mrs Pernille Vermund knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105321	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105325	Thank you. Now I know that the Danish People's Party cares a lot about elderly care, and in the Ekstra Bladet last week you could read about 49-year-old Geethika Brown from Sri Lanka, who has worked quite a few years in the care of the elderly. She now stands to be expelled on February 11, despite the fact that she has never been on cash aid and has never committed crime. The employees she is surrounded by praise her very much, and so do those she helps in the care of the elderly. And the consequence of a person like Geethika Brown being deported from Denmark is that there may then have to be a temp into home care instead of, who does not know the older fellow citizens who need help and who then might get worse help. Therefore, I just want to know whether Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard thinks it is common sense that someone like Geethika Brown, who contributes to home care and welfare, should be expelled from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105424	I don't want to go into that at all. Well, I think it's very specific in this debate to pull out an individual who's been in the Ekstra Bladet. I don't think that's fair, because I don't know that case. It is not every day that I read the Extra Magazine; I must confess it. I think it is a little difficult to get into a specific case. As Mr. Kristian Hegaard makes it seem strange and unreasonable, but there may be many other things in the matter that I do not know about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105448	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105449	I am pleased with the indication that, from what I have just said, it may seem unreasonable, because I think that is what it is. That is why I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether she can answer on a general level: if you have not committed crime, and if you have not received cash assistance and speak a finely understood Danish and contribute to welfare through, for example, working in the care of the elderly, is it common sense that you should be thrown out of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105518	As Mr. Kristian Hegaard makes it, so the answer is: No, it is not. But I do not know, and I do not think at all, that I will go into a personal matter which has been opened up in the Ekstrabladet and which I do not know about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122105551	Thank you, President. I can see that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's enthusiasm for social democracy is not overflowing this morning, but nevertheless I will start with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. For I recently finished Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's autobiography, a book which I can warmly recommend to all political interested parties. It is indisputable that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has made significant impressions on Denmark and Danish politics since her admission to the Assembly Hall on 7 February 1984, well over a month before I was born. At the time it was as a member of the Progress Party that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard became a significant voice in Danish politics, and when one reads the biography, it is clear that the driving force has been indignation over the living conditions of pensioners, indignation that too many Danes were supporting themselves on the community's account without doing enough to get back to work, and later an indignation over a lenient alien policy. Today, it is probably primarily the debate on integration, Islam and foreigners, which mostly connects with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. The development and change of Denmark, which we are discussing today and are discussing, has taken place while Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard sat in the Folketing. However, if someone has pointed to the problems and has tried to call out to the public, we must also acknowledge that there has been hardly a more pronounced and pervasive voice in the debate than Mrs Pia Kjærsgaards has for decades now. It does not make me proud, therefore, when I read in the biography how many politicians in the red bloc reacted when the Danish People's Party in the 1990s focused on integration problems. For example, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard describes how red blocs, including social democrats, even refused to go to the platform when the Danish People's Party called for questions like the one we have here today, and there was a focus on foreigners. Some even emigrated demonstratively from the hall. In the social democracy we took too long to recognise the problems. The Social Democratic Western mayors did what they could to shout Christiansborg, but unfortunately without much success at the time. This summer I had a presentation somewhere in Greater Copenhagen about our foreign policy for a Social Democratic Party Association, and here a few of the elderly and long-standing members of the Social Democratic Party took the floor, and that made an impression. They said quite plainly that they felt they owed an apology to some of the Western mayors from the debate back in the 1980s. It had often been too harsh and they had not understood the seriousness of the warnings raised by the Western mayors. The Aliens Act of 1983 was the beginning of a change in Denmark, which went too far. The change picked up speed, and it proved difficult to control. Citizens and politicians wanted to believe in the best in others... many had the memories of the Second World War refugees and the victims of the Holocaust in their memory, and they let that knowledge guide their views on foreign policy issues. It was sympathetic, but it was also misunderstood. Firstly, in many cases there was not a holocaust from which people had to be rescued. People from the Middle East and Africa often searched north because they wanted a more comfortable life. They continued to cross and cross countless safe countries before seeking asylum in Denmark, for example. And those who came for protection from war and strife never had the mind to go back home and leave the good things that they had gained in their country when there was peace again in their homeland. Secondly, the stability of values was underestimated. As well as we in this Chamber would not begin to look down on homosexuals if we moved to the Middle East, there have been many who are also not beginning to see homosexuals as equal citizens because they move from the Middle East to Denmark. And that is how we could go about looking at women, democracy, children, equality, the labour market and much more. Values, ideas, norms, religion, traditions... it all means far more than we realized. That is why the situation would have been different if, since 1983, we had received refugees from our neighbouring countries, for example, refugees who, culturally without major problems, had been able to slip into the Community and make a positive contribution. We're running out of time. We must act actively to defend Danish values and standards, to defend democracy, the rule of law and freedom. In concrete terms, we have taken a number of initiatives jointly here in the Folketing. We want to break down parallel societies; negative social control must be punished more severely; it has greater consequences if you abandon your child and leave it somewhere in the Great Middle East because you think it has become too Danish; we want to ban anti-democratic donations to mosques; in the past we have jointly imposed a cover-up ban; and we have ensured that hate preachers cannot enter Denmark. We are not in the end and there is a long way to go, but I am optimistic because we in the Danish Parliament are a broad majority taking the problems seriously and because the people, including fortunately many immigrants, are feeling indignation and frustration at the behaviour of many from the Middle East, unfortunately. I look forward to a good debate on a debate where, hopefully, we will also get a little up in the helicopter and have a reflection back on how Denmark has been changed, but of course we also talk about how we ensure that Islamism and other anti-democratic ideas and values do not gain ground in society. I have a proposal for adoption with from the Social Democratic Party: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the vast majority of foreigners who have come to Denmark contribute to Danish society, but that immigration from a number of countries in the Middle East and North Africa in particular has challenged our welfare society. More people have come here than we have been able to integrate. As a society, we must now step in more character and stand firm on our Danish values. We cannot and will not accept that democracy and the rule of law are put before hatred in parallel societies; or that extreme Islamist forces are trying to turn Muslim fellow citizens against Denmark and divide our societies. Parliament wants a strict and consistent immigration policy to continue to be pursued to ensure that our welfare societies can keep up with it. Parliament notes with satisfaction that the basic rules for permanent residence, asylum and family reunification have generally been extended by the previous government and that the government is now working to move asylum procedures outside Europe and to tighten the conditions for obtaining citizenship. • V 54).
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110142	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are many brief comments to the rapporteur and the first is to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110153	Thank you. I have to ask the rapporteur what I was talking about in my speech: if you look at it in isolation, the figure is actually 280,000, and it is like a figure that can be passed on to these MENAP countries. It is not really the case, but I am thinking of how much we are discussing it, what problems it causes, what debate it gives all the time at all levels, in other words about dress, crime, how to behave, social control, etc. etc. And now I am here with the many proposals made by the Social Democratic Party before the elections for changes in foreign policy, but when will we get through the whole list proposed by the Social Democratic Party before the elections? And what is really the most important question is what has been a little confused over the last few days, namely that we should be able to apply for asylum far away from Denmark. Can we just get back to that for a second? I know that there was a minister who said first that it was possible and then that it was not possible. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110259	To the end first: No, of course it is not possible to seek asylum far away from Denmark, because it would make Denmark a magnet for refugees and migrants from all over the world. It was an access that was removed a long time ago. In fact, I often think it has disappeared a little in that debate. When you believe in the blue block that starting aid is the explanation for a very low influx of asylum to Denmark, I think it is underestimated how much effect it had when it removed access to asylum at Danish embassies. Of course, we should not be able to seek asylum elsewhere in the world again. And a misunderstanding is what can happen, I will not put that much emphasis on it, but I can at least sweep it off the track in the first place. First of all, we are in the process of trying to implement justice and realism, our aliens' initiative, a whole range of initiatives are already in place, and what I think is the most important thing that I hope we will achieve is a reception centre. This is because, if we succeed in doing so, we can make a structural change to the problem of foreigners in Denmark, and just as the law on foreigners of 1983 was negative, we can do so in a positive way if we succeed in this objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110403	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110407	I just have to say, I'm here with the article. Well, where are we? Is that exactly what the rapporteur is talking about here? Or is that what Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, the new minister, is going to talk about, or what? And I would also like to hear when the Prime Minister comes up and rounds up where you really are. Because for a very long time we have been in doubt about everything that was going on around asylum etc., that is, we should have some reception centre, but where are we? So, I have a lot of doubts about what the Social Democrats really think about this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110439	After all, the Minister for Development corrected that article, almost a few minutes after the interview was given, so there was not so much to be in doubt about in that account. That's where we mean the same thing. What's the status of the reception center? It is that there are negotiations and that this is difficult, we have never concealed. In this session before the summer holidays, we shall hopefully, with broad support, adopt a change to the law on foreigners, so that Danish legislation on foreigners will, at the moment, succeed in reaching an agreement with a country to set up a reception centre, too, because it will not be able to do so at the present time. That is why it has to be said that it is only with the entry of this government into the government offices that there has been an active attempt to do something like this and that, of course, it has taken a great deal of work on the part of a civil servant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110533	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110537	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Stoklund for the speech. I would like to follow up on the question I asked the Prime Minister about the spread of these noisy prayer calls. As I understood the Prime Minister's reply, it was an expression of a trend which the Prime Minister found negative. At the same time, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund now on the platform and tells us to act actively. That is why I would like to ask: if the spread of noisy prayer calls is an expression of something negative, as the Prime Minister said, and when Mr. Rasmus Stoklund says that the Socialists want to act actively, why don't we do something about the problem of these noisy prayer calls?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110617	Well, so do we. In other words, the government has set in motion work to clarify what the legal possibilities are and how we avoid a situation in which, if we were to adopt legislation in here, we were suddenly banned church bells, which may not be a lot of us interested in, but which are also formally a kind of prayer call. That is why it is a question of first finding out what the law is and then finding out what the extent of the problem is. I think it was at the mosque of peace in Gellerup, at least somewhere in Aarhus or around, that a year or a year or a year ago I knew there was a very significant example of it, but for the time being it is not the case that we are otherwise flooded with prayer calls or minarets, where music is sent out from speakers or other, and fortunately, that is not the case either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110710	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110711	That is what makes me a little bit worried, because on a very specific question as to why you do not want to take action against prayer calls, something is being talked about with church bells, and then the problem is being neglected. Well, the challenge is that we can see that in all the countries around us that have got this great immigration, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has problematized, this problem of prayer calls has spread. That is why it is important to react quickly and to react firmly before the problem grows incalculable, and that is why I just cannot understand why the Social Democrats are not prepared to do so. All the blue parties in the Folketing made a joint proposal to say: let us take action now before the problem grows so large that we cannot solve it. Why don't you want to be upfront? Why do you not want to act actively?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110757	Well, I can't do it on behalf of Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin understands what I'm trying to say. But, of course, we are acting actively by clarifying what the legislation is like. Sir. Morten Dahlin is also bound by the Constitution and knows that we must not discriminate, that we have freedom of religion, etc. Therefore, when you have church bells, which are formally also a kind of prayer call, we will not risk that if we had to make some legislation at some point, we would also have to ban church bells. We have a long tradition of this here in Denmark; we would like that. What do we not want in Denmark? Prayer call. We should not have prayer calls spread in Denmark. We have never concealed that, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has also said so from this platform on several occasions. There is no disagreement, however much you want to create it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110836	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110840	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for our good cooperation in relation to the Finance Act on the strengthening of efforts to combat negative social control, which really is one of the things that contributes to creating further equality and which is very important. And there is something that needs to be translated into relation to that, namely 10 million. kr. a year. However, in the Radical Left we see it as the first small start to intensify and strengthen efforts against negative social control. And looking at what action plans have been in recent years, we can see that there have been action plans in 2003, 2005, 2012 and 2016. That is why it should be thought that 2021 could then be the year in which we launched a new action plan on negative social control. In any case, the Radical Left has proposed this, and that is why I would like to know whether it is something that the Socialists will also agree to, in other words that we will have a new action plan against negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122110937	It is, of course, part of the current negotiations on the use of these funds, so it would be wrong for me to start standing here and saying something firm about it. But what I would like to say at least is that I agree with the importance of this cooperation against negative social control, and I also welcome the money now being spent on combating these things. Now the article from Berlingske from the other day about a Somali girl, who was shaved by her father and left in Mogadishu, has been mentioned a few times. It is clear that this type of crazy failure is among the most extreme, but it also exists to a lesser extent, for example. not be allowed to choose one's own girlfriend or mate, or where one does not dare to jump out as a homosexual or make other important choices in life. That is why we must take a hard line on this, and that is why we must now deal with a proposal against negative social control which, in a number of areas, tightens up the legislation thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111032	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111034	If you look at recent years, you can see that, fortunately, there has been an improvement in relation to negative social control. In 2000, one municipality had an anchored effort in relation to negative social control, and by 2020 it was 17 municipalities. In 2012, 26 per cent felt that they were limited in relation to the choice of spouse. This was true for 16%. Last year. That means that improvements have been made, but that is not enough, and I would therefore like to hear a statement from the Socialists about whether they will be taking part in the radical proposal to have an action plan against negative social control, since it is now a few years since we have launched the latest one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111112	Well, there's gonna be my answer the same as to the question before. It is true that it has gone from being very bad to being a little less bad in a number of areas when it comes to negative social control. There's still a long way to go. That is why I am also pleased that we are getting the legislation tightened up now, so that, for example, we can do something about it. We are being expelled if we maintain someone in marriage against their will, so that we can include children's passports and other papers, so that children do not run the risk of being sent on a re-educational journey or left in the country of origin, and so that in a number of other areas we have tightened up on this and get a signal to people that we will not accept this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111148	The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111152	Thank you. That was, in fact, the last comment from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, who just made me ask a question. For it is quite right that we are currently debating how the money coming from the Finance Act, which is intended to stop negative social controls, should be implemented. That's really good. Unfortunately, I don't think that money is going to do it alone. I think it is also a question of changing some legislation, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund also mentioned. So I just have to ask: will the Social Democrats not help to give more rights to women who are subjected to negative social control? They have, of course, been deprived of a lot of rights... what can you say and get caught up in the tight immigration policy. And there, among other things, have... The daily newspaper Information documented how they have been maintained in negative social control rather than being freed from it. And that's not what was supposed to happen, so why don't we change it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111249	Women who are subjected to negative social control have already today, fortunately, because this must also be the case in Denmark, because as a society we are doing what we can to support them. We can do even better. That's one of them. That is why we must now translate 10 million. kr. a year to improve that effort. And it's true that it doesn't say so, we have one of the world's largest public sectors with a lot of talented professions in school, police and other authorities, which are also part of this. When it is the case that in 2009 there were more young women from 24 Muslim countries than young women from Danish backgrounds at the country's crisis centres, it is an indication that there is a significant over-representation from Muslim countries. That's why we're doing what we can. We are now taking action with these measures in the legislation against negative social control, which will hit particularly hard in relation to the parallel societies that are the focal point of this. And now we are negotiating on how these funds are being used, and I think we are well on our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111359	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111402	I very much agree with this that, fortunately, there is a large public sector that can help deal with this. That is why I am also surprised that one can go through a whole new education without meeting the concept of negative social control. I think we should change that. But I also think we should change the fact that you're being held in a marriage, because if you divorce, you lose your residence permit. We have to change that, too. It is, I think, simply frightening if Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's solidarity with these women doesn't go any further than he doesn't want them to stay in this country if they get divorced from their husband. And that's why I just have a prayer for the Social Democrat: I'm in on you having a tight immigration policy, but let's just soften up a little so we can help these women that we all have an interest in helping.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111447	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111452	It is possible that it is not very well known, but there is already a derogation in foreign law for women who are exposed to it here, precisely in order to prevent a man from exposing his partner to violence, or what I know, and, like him, having the squeeze that her residence permit is dependent on him. And that is why there is already an opportunity today to protect these women, so it would be to solve a problem that has already been resolved if we were to do what Mrs Lund is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111521	The next brief remark is from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111527	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would also like to follow up on my question to the Prime Minister, because I am sometimes left with this feeling that the Social Democratic Party has suffered with that, I do not know whether to say decorate yourself with borrowed feathers, but at least make some big promises to the Danes that I find difficult to see that one can fulfill. We have talked about the reception centre outside the European Union, where, in addition to a future legislative proposal, I find it difficult to see that something is happening in the real world. And, as I asked the Prime Minister, I can understand from the media yesterday that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration says the target is zero asylum seekers. It is a fine goal to have, but it is not something you simply report out in a headline in a newspaper without having any follow-up concrete steps to get in that direction. So what is it that the Social Democratic Party wants to make of significant measures that can live up to the headline of moving towards zero asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111624	The reason for the announcement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is, of course, that he is not just sitting at home laying down seven solitaires and eating popcorn, but that he is actively working to establish this reception centre. What he then tries to explain with that picture is that at the moment we managed to create such a reception centre, the incentive structure of paying a smuggler money to transport one to Europe and then on to Denmark crumbled, for why would one be sent to Denmark if one was migrant, and then seek asylum in Denmark if one knew that one was put directly back on a plane and flown back to a reception centre in a given country? This is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is trying to explain in such a figurative way. It is, of course, the incentive structure that we would like to establish. That is also why I mentioned this earlier, because this has the potential to be a structural change in Danish foreign policy at the level of the Aliens Act in 1983. That is because we can reverse the incentive structure. Where it was a negative development in 1983, this would be a positive development.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111729	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111730	Now I hope that the rapporteur will not insinuate that the rest of us sit down and sit down and eat popcorn. But it sounds rather hollow, because the Social Democrats have raised the social benefits for refugees who do not have jobs. It has been made easier to stay in Denmark as a refugee, even though there is peace in the home country. All other things being equal, it is two of the factors that have historically made Denmark a much more attractive country to seek asylum in. But now we have a Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who says: zero asylum seekers. Does the rapporteur not see that it sounds incredibly hollow?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111804	Yeah, if it was true, but it's not. That's factually wrong. We're not doing anything to make it easier to stay. On the contrary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration has this so-called Damascus project, which attempts to review those who are temporarily resident and who come from Damascus Province, to see if anything has changed in their terms. This is not something politicians are doing; it is the authorities and, ultimately, the Refugee Board that are taking the decision. But these things are being reviewed precisely in order to avoid the situation that Mr. Marcus Knuth outlines, that is to say, you want to make sure people have a permanent stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111836	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111841	Thank you. The rapporteur knows that I appreciate our cooperation and, in recognition of the fact that we have a large red majority, I am happy on my own behalf, on behalf of my family and also on behalf of my country, after all, that we have a Socialist rapporteur in this area, whom I actually trust. I also believe that the rapporteur agrees with me that the size of public services has an impact on the number of foreigners who come here and also on the extent to which the foreigners who are here are going to work. A moment ago, the Prime Minister said in his speech, and I quote: first comes the duty, then comes the rights. I mean, you have to give before you can enjoy. And I think that's kind of a bad fit for what you've actually done. When you, like sir... Marcus Knuth said just now, has raised the benefits to non-working foreigners, on the grounds that there are some children who get into trouble because their parents do not bother to work, but then it makes me unsure whether one is willing to do what was said at the beginning of this parliamentary year, namely to make extra demands on foreigners in Denmark who do not work. That brings me to my question: is the social democracy and the government willing to make demands on families with a foreign background who have children and who are not in work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111954	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122111957	Yes, we certainly are. First of all, I would like to thank you for your kind words and say that I am also pleased with our good cooperation. But to answer the question: yes, we are ready to put action behind the words we have put forward. Before the election, we said two things in this area: on the one hand, we would set up a service commission to find out how this could be arranged in a smarter way in the future; on the other hand, we would put forward a proposal for 37 hours • as it has been called in daily speech so that people should have an employee logic from the beginning, that is, give before they can enjoy. Now I said two things, but in reality we said perhaps three things, because we also said that we wanted to protect children from child poverty, and we do so with a subsidy of DKK 500-600. a month for a child to avoid children living in poverty in Denmark. It is mainly foreigners who benefit from the subsidy, but there are actually also a number of Danish families who benefit from the subsidy. But that is not a permanent solution. It is a solution until we have found a new model, which must be a combination of the 37-hour model and a new performance regime based also on input from the Service Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112103	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112107	That's how far I get. But what is the challenge here is that if you have a great deal of support from a left, that is, the Radical Left and the Socialist parties, who insist that you should not make special demands on families or create consequences for families where there are children, then we have a situation in which a very, very large proportion of the people who have come here from Muslim countries are not affected to the same extent by the consequence that we want to introduce. So the rapporteur does not see that if you keep adding extra money to children's families, and we know that we have families that are very child-rich families from Muslim countries, then this does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112151	Well, we don't keep adding extra funds. We have introduced a temporary grant to protect some children from child poverty. It's in the vicinity of 500-600 kroner. the month in question. It's a temporary arrangement. During the spring, our 37-hour model is to be presented. A new performance system must be established at some point in time. These things are connected and play together, and I know there is no one in the Folketing who thinks that you should not go to work. We must then find a model on which a majority can agree. This would not be the first time if it were the case that a majority went over the middle and that it was not only one block or the other block that established a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112229	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112235	When we say to social democrats that it is a problem that it is not worthwhile for some people in Danish society to work, then social democrats usually answer the same thing: well, that is not a problem at all, because we have rules of availability in Denmark. Nevertheless, we regularly hear reports in the press from municipalities and job centres about women from immigrant families who are not in work for decades not because they can't either it is women who won't, or families who won't allow them to work. What will the Social Democrats do to ensure that the case workers, who seem to be influenced by a left-wing ideology which also extends far into the social democracy, that it is a sin for immigrants, enforce the rules of availability which are actually a legal requirement in Denmark, namely that one should be available to want to work, so that we are not told in the future that there are women in Danish society who are getting away with not being available for the labour market and yet receiving cash aid for decades? And it is not enough to say that you want them to be activated; it is a real job they must have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112346	First of all, I agree with the assessment that we have a problem here. I remember that about a year ago the DA did some analyses of this area, which showed that there were many, especially immigrant women, who went for months without even being at a meeting at the municipality, but just passively received benefits every month. This is totally untenable and unacceptable. I do not think there is any way around the fact that many of these women are not going to enter the ordinary labour market directly, and it may well be that activation must be part of the way in there. But our purpose in this 37-hour project is to create an employee logic where you come up to deliver a number of hours, which can be some language teaching, and can be some activation if you are not able to get into an ordinary job, but where the benefits are at such a low level that you have a strong incentive to find ordinary employment as soon as possible. I think that model will make a significant contribution to changing this basic • and there is a need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112446	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112450	But it is not, after decades in Denmark, that they have so great language difficulties that they cannot get to work. That's not what it takes, that is, for them to go to school. People can come directly from Poland without a word of Danish and go to work from day one in different jobs where it is possible to work even if you cannot Danish. Then, of course, immigrant women who have been in Denmark for decades can also do so. That is not the challenge. The challenge is that there is no motivation. And then the challenge is that the rules of availability, which the Social Democrats always claim to be there, are actually not there because the case workers out there do not enforce them. And they do not because they are infected with a left-wing ideology that it is a pity for them and that ideology also exists in the Social Democracy. So what will the Social Democrats do to remove it from the case workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112536	I don't go around thinking it's a pity for somebody that they have to work to be part of Danish society. On the other hand, I believe that this is necessary, among other things. Because immigration policy became too lenient throughout the 1980s that people who have a life in Denmark and will have it for the rest of their days must speak Danish; because you do not work well in Denmark if you do not speak Danish. But that's not what's primary here. It is primarily that you come out and contribute to the community and to society and become part of the labour market itself. And there I believe that the creation of an employee logic, where you first provide something and then get paid something, is an important step on the way, and that is the model we are going to launch this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112615	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112623	Thank you. I thought it was a good speech, like Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund gave, and like the Prime Minister's speech, he also gave some historical backdrop. It's always fun to have them refreshed. And also thank you for the credit that the Danish People's Party has received on this occasion, at least rhetorical. I think we should say that. I would say that in the 18 years that went from 1983 to 2001, the Left and Conservative shame were just as bad as the Socialists were in this respect. There was a unanimous Parliament against the Progress Party and later the Danish People's Party. If we really want to put an end to this, i.e. the unbeing that is still away there and is very difficult to get to grips with... that is being pointed out to the municipalities as some of those who could solve some things... then the conventions are what are crucially in the way that we can put in place the alien law that we want. I should like to ask: is the Social Democratic Party prepared to change or at least look at changing the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112731	Yes, if we can do that from within, if I may say so, if we can be part of a cooperation similar to that of the Copenhagen Declaration or otherwise, where we can agree in a Community that there is something here that needs to be kept up to date, because for many of the Member States that are part of different conventions or other binding international communities, it is so that there is something here that is no longer in line with what was originally the basis of the conventions. I think that is the best answer I can give in this respect. Thank you for your kind words about my speech. I think too briefly to round it with the conventions of''Cause now I see that I have a little more time than I just thought it is figuratively better for a very small fish in a very large aquarium, that in that aquarium there are some rules of play for how the big fish, including those with sharp teeth, should behave. I therefore believe that a small state like Denmark has an interest in an international society that is regulated. It is not the same as the fact that I do not think that there are problems and that we have to get to grips with them sometimes. However, we must do what we can to change it from within, in line with the cooperation on the Copenhagen Declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112842	Then there was no more time left. Then it's 1⁄2 minutes for mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112848	But then I have to say, it won't happen. This is a piece of nonsense, because of course we cannot get a whole lot of other countries to change the conventions from within. It is not possible to do so, and Denmark is still a free and independent country, and I therefore believe that no matter how small or how medium-sized or how large we are, it is up to us to take the initiative to sign up for the conventions that we do not find in the service of Denmark, or at least make the changes we want. I would also like to point out that each convention always starts with a sentence saying that if this is something that harms the security of the country, then it does not. But let us be clear: social democracy will not take the initiative to change the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122112933	Now there are many different conventions, but let us take the European Convention on Human Rights, which is one of those we often encounter in these contexts. In fact, it is not particularly detailed, so there is not necessarily a need to change its wording itself. There is more to need, perhaps sometimes, to adjust how it is interpreted and how it is used. I'll give Mr. Søren Espersen is right that it may be difficult to change the very wording of the European Convention on Human Rights, but the last part about how it is used is something that is dynamic and that has developed and where we now have to see whether we cannot drive the development another way, which is what was attempted with the Copenhagen Declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113013	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113023	Thank you to the rapporteur. When you listen to the debate, you can quickly get the impression that immigration is only a problem-filled issue. We have a very special focus on the challenges that exist. I would therefore just like to make it clear, in order to nuance the debate, that immigration is, of course, a huge gain for Denmark in all possible respects. We can see this here in the coronatide, where women with scarf and other minority dancers are at the forefront of combating corona, whether in nursing homes or in test centres. While many of us can safely go home, many minority dancers along with ethnic Danes stand out there and make our society's wheels drive around. It's just a tribute to all those people. We have had a special focus on minority women and the fact that they need to be released, and I would just like to hear if the Social Democrats have some action on the way to the many women with headscarf who are storming on education but who have to send 60%. several applications to qualify for a job. Does the Social Democratic Party have any legislative proposals and measures to ensure that this discrimination ends and that these women can enter the labour market and be self-employed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113144	To the last part of the question, I am not aware of authoritative studies which prove that there is the problem of discrimination, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique draws a picture of. To the first part, which I really think is a more interesting fundamental discussion, I would say that there is no doubt at individual level that there are plenty of immigrants in Denmark who have been and are a gain for Denmark, but the problem is, of course, that we are talking about social conditions and that we are talking about large groups, and there is no point in drawing a picture that it has all been a huge gain for Denmark to receive immigrants from these so-called MENAP countries, i.e. the 24 countries in the Middle East. But that does not mean that the individual immigrant coming from one of those countries cannot be a gain. I have my own family both with roots in Tunisia and Iran, and I would say that they are a gain for Denmark because they make a positive contribution in the same way as lots of other immigrants in Denmark, want Denmark, have taken Denmark to heart, speak Danish, contribute to the labour market, share our values and desires for freedom, democracy, etc. etc. But to say that, overall, immigration has just been a gain, I think, is too easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113256	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113259	I think it is really a pity that the Social Democrat rapporteur is not aware that women with a scarf should send 60%. More applications to qualify for a job, and it actually exhibits a little government and social democracy, compared to how little attention is paid to minority protection and the fight against racism and discrimination. In fact, I think it is beneath all criticism that the rapporteur can stand on the platform and say that we do not know about these studies. In any case, I would like to call on the rapporteur to take a look at this area, because, just as we must combat the challenges that exist, we must also ensure this protection of minorities. And then I hope that in the next debate we can hear that the Social Democrats and the government will make some proposals so that women with a scarf are not discriminated against in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113349	It is, of course, poisonous to the sense of community in any society if there are some who would like to see the society that is experiencing discrimination. It's never okay. It is not okay if there is a woman with a scarf who experiences it, or if a young man who is working well, who is in town with his friends, is rejected alone because of his skin color. Nobody thinks that's okay. I don't think anyone in this Parliament thinks it's okay. I'm actually quite sure that nobody does and we don't think so either. On the other hand, I also think that it leaves the debate a little light on the fact that every time Mr. Sikandar Siddique comes up with this type of example, so it's only that kind of discrimination and racism he can point to. It is not humiliation violence where young Danish men, for example. are beaten by a group of immigrants because they are young Danish men. This kind of racism seems to be of interest to Mr. Sikandar Siddique infinitely a bit. I do not like any form of discrimination or racism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113429	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122113455	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for the tradition of raising a debate as important as this one is. Today, close to one in seven citizens in Denmark has a background in another country, and many have a background in a country with a culture and also a religion that is very different from what we have been used to in Denmark, and it challenges the values that we as a society have rounded off. For Denmark is much more than just a small random piece of land far north. We are a society based on values such as equality, liberalism, the rule of the people and, above all, unity and community. These values are, of course, constantly evolving just like the rest of society, and that's just fine. But despite developments and despite the fact that the expression may change, the basic essence must remain the same, and that is, if it is not, then at least one of the most important tasks facing us as Parliament, that is to say, to maintain the values that have made Denmark one of the world's best countries to live in, and unfortunately not without active political action. 'Cause let's say it's the way it is. We are experiencing some pretty violent things here at home: the terrorist attack on the powder keg and the synagogue, the crazy Sharia contracts that keep women in violent marriages, the noisy prayer calls that spread. The other day we heard about a Somali girl being forced on a reeducational journey, and then one of the things that may seem small on the surface, but who has sat in me, is the associate professor who has had to get a secret address because on her Facebook she wrote that she wanted to show the Muhammad drawings in her teaching. So I do not think that, if you want to maintain your credibility, you can conceal the fact that we have some massive challenges, including here in Denmark. We have done so because for decades a relaxed and naive foreign policy has been pursued which has led to a lot of people coming to Denmark who do not subscribe to these values and who swear to values that belong in the Middle East. In fact, it should not be so difficult to say: the values are absolutely worse than those we swear to in Denmark, and that is why Denmark is worth fleeing to and the Middle East is worth fleeing from. I find it infinitely difficult to understand the people who are taken away from societies that are in every way worse than ours, and then spend all their energy trying to make Denmark exactly what they have fled from. That's why we see women's oppressive divorce contracts in Odense. That's why we see Sharia Council in Copenhagen, and that's why we see loud prayer calls in Aarhus. I just don't get it. Unfortunately, this is not just one example, because despite the fact that there are plenty of well-integrated immigrants, we have some major problems. Just one example: 42 per cent. of all immigrants in Denmark believe, either in whole or in part, that religious criticism should be banned. The worst thing is that the numbers are worse for the descendants. This shows to me that a very special effort is needed and that we need to take the spoon in the other hand and stand firm, and then we need to be much clearer in the spit than we have been in the past. It also requires that we discuss some of the things that have otherwise been consensual about in Denmark for many years, and one of the things that I can most clearly remember is that I was almost indoctrinated with it when I went to primary school myself was the story about integration being a shared responsibility. It's wrong. Integration does not go both ways. It's a myth. The meeting between people must always be mutual, but the integration process must not. This isn't about bending us against each other. It is not about finding a compromise, nor is it about building a bridge. It is about those who come here crossing the bridge that already exists, and if you are not ready for it, integration can never succeed. If you do not want to cross the bridge that states that the constitution is above the Koran, that drawings do not lead to violence, that women and men are equal, then it should not be Denmark that you are trying to make your home. There are lots of communities where you can live as part of the core without crossing that bridge. Denmark is just not one of them, but we have not been good enough to explain that as a society, or in fact we are probably better at explaining it, but we are still not good enough to show it, and that is what we politically need to work with, and that fight is something that the Left takes part in. So thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. I can't wait for it. Then I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that most foreigners who have come to Denmark contribute to Danish society, but that immigration from particularly non-western countries has created integration problems and parallel societies. The Folketing considers it worrying that the government has increased benefits for unemployed immigrants, which will have a negative effect on both integration and influx to Denmark. Foreigners coming to Denmark have a duty to adapt to our standards and culture, learn Danish and contribute to the community by educating themselves and working. Parliament calls on the government to make efforts to combat social control of women in particular and that no one is harassed on the basis of their beliefs, sexuality or gender. The Danish Parliament believes that a strict and consistent policy on foreigners should be pursued to ensure coherence in Denmark. • V 55).
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114041	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114046	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin for the speech. Something that puzzled me a little was that Mr. Morten Dahlin said that some who come to Denmark are trying to make Denmark the country from which they have fled. Some of the countries from which they have fled are countries where you decide what clothes women must wear. The Left would also like to decide that, because the Left has introduced a cover ban in Denmark. So perhaps it is actually the Left who also takes on some of the values that come from countries whose values we in Denmark do not subscribe to. - Sir... Morten Dahlin didn't see that double standards are thick?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114127	The very short answer is no, by no means at all. And that the policy of the Left should try to turn Denmark into the Middle East or another country from which we have many refugees and migrants, I think is quite wrong. And in relation to the ban on cover, I believe that this is really a fight for freedom. I can read that there are various reasons why this value struggle is important for some parties. So, in Jyllands-Posten today, the Foreign Minister says it is very important to him because it is about preserving the state. For me, this is a freedom struggle. And fighting for women and girls to have a life on an equal footing with men and boys, where you look at each other, where you have the same opportunities in the labour market, in cultural life, in social life, is one of the most important freedom struggles for me. And that is why I stand at the very end of what the Left did, and I would say that I think we are doing the opposite of trying to turn the country into those from whom many have fled. We are trying to create a free society, and what they come from is an unfree society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114229	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114233	Well, sir. Morten Dahlin, freedom struggle for who? Who is the freedom struggle for when the state wants to decide what clothes women should wear? This isn't a women's fight for freedom. I really think that's a nonsense to say... to want to decide how women should dress. We must hopefully be allowed to decide that for ourselves in the name of equality. And I have to say that I think it is far-fetched that the Left thinks that what should give women equality is that the Left should decide what clothes they should wear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114303	Of course, it is a struggle for freedom that we use the weapons we have in our arsenal to fight something like burkas, which in its essence is that men and women are not equal, because that is the thinking behind it, and we must insist that the burka has been forced on some people because some people believe that men and women are not equal and that women should not therefore have the freedom to walk with their faces and bodies free. I have a great deal of respect for Mrs Rosa Lund, but not to be able to see that it is a freedom struggle, in a party that looks up for decades of women's struggle, I simply have a feeling, and it may be that I am not smart enough to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114343	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114346	Thank you. In fact, I referred twice to this both in the explanatory statement of the whole debate and in my rapporteur's speech and I note that the three parties which have together tabled a proposal for adoption continue to use the term 'non-Western'. I think we should not do that; I think so. In fact, I think that we should make a decision that the term is no longer used in the West. These are the countries which are Africa and which are Turkey. And you shouldn't just knock out your arms, because it's a very large group if you bring the whole Asian world, and I think we should put that behind us. May I then say something about scarves and the fact that it is women's oppressive. They say that the man wants women to wear a scarf many times, and then there are some women who say that they decide for themselves, etc. etc. What is really the truth is that in the Muslim world it is believed that men cannot stay on the mat unless women are covered, i.e. that men are really pigs, and that they are in relation to even small sexually mature girls aged 10, 11, 12; therefore, they must be covered. In fact, I think that's a creepy way of thinking. It is also just to talk about the whole debate that is, about scarves, the ban on cover, etc. I think we are about to look at it in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114502	In fact, compared with the first part around non-western countries, I struck out with my arms to acknowledge that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is right. I thought that was a good point, and let us talk about where the problems come from. So there is complete agreement there; whether we get the term 'non-western' out of the language from one day to the next, I am not so sure, but I agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Then I think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard raises something that has also been close to my heart in relation to that view of men and women and, in fact, most of all girls and boys, because it is something of the same that we experience with the problems that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has raised several times in relation to swimming halls, where some Muslim fathers start to problematize that there are male lifeguards present when their little girls go swimming lessons. And it really is a sick mindset that little girls are sexualised in the swimming pool, which I think we should hit very hard. I've tried it in my own local swimming pool where I sit in the municipal council, we've had some of these challenges. So I fully share that analysis and we need to find solutions to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114608	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114610	I'd like to go back to the scarf thing, because it's also a very, very important debate. Because you spend a lot of time using it myself, I have to admit that it's women's oppressive. In a sense, it is also very much my opinion, but I think we should go over to how creepy it really is that it is, because the only point where the man is weak according to the Koran is otherwise there are no points, that he cannot feed himself for women who are not covered. That is quite clear, and that is why women are covered. I think that is actually an absurd idea, and I think that we should do something more out of that debate in Denmark: that women cover up because otherwise the father, the son, or whoever it may be, throws themselves over them, that is, over a woman who is not covered. They also call Danish women without scarf some terrible terms, which I will not reproduce here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114713	It is absolutely true that this is an absurd way of thinking, and it is really also talking down to the huge, huge majority of men who have absolutely no problem in controlling themselves, despite the fact that they can see women's hair, myself included. So I actually think that's a relevant point. The reason I brought it down to child level before is that it is one of the places where there is the biggest clash between the morals and ethics that are in some of the countries people have fled from and the one that is in Denmark. And that is why it is a challenge that I think is difficult to solve, but it does not mean that we should not try, because I fully agree with the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114752	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114804	I heard the rapporteur say: integration is not a mutual project; people just have to see the bridge as there is. There is one thing I would like to ask, because I think that the integration of our weakest Achilles heel into this whole debate and that we, as a society, do not actually manage to ensure that more people get to work. We have a common task in terms of solving this. We can't just sit back and say, "You're on your own; there's a bridge there. There aren't many bridges. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge that it is very difficult to learn Danish; that it is very difficult to enter a Danish workplace, even if you are eager? During my trade union time I had a great many refugees and immigrants who have come in, and if we did not help them to get into a job, they could stand and they could apply again and again because there are prejudices about others than Danes in the workplace among a number of employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114852	First of all, the poor social link between refugees and immigrants in Denmark is a huge problem. It is economic, it is social, it is cultural. And have we as a society erected barriers that make it harder to enter the labour market? Yeah, we sure do. Should we tear down those barriers? Absolutely. Is part of the barriers that we have not dared to make enough demands on people? Definitely agree. But I would say that some groups have managed to enter the labour market. And so, my brother-in-law, I don't know if I can use him as an example, but I'm gonna do it anyway, so maybe tonight I'm gonna get yelling at him from Australia, and he lives here in Denmark. He has not had the great challenges of entering his workplace. I have met many people who come from Eastern Europe who have not had the great challenge of entering jobs. So it is also a special group that has had difficulty in doing this, and I think that perhaps the idea that we have said that this is our responsibility is one of the barriers. And that is why I say it with the bridges, because I think it is a very good analogy, namely that people should be willing to cross that bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122114958	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115001	Well, that presupposes that we build a bridge. I mean, I have also taken Eastern Europeans in the hands of Polish workers, Bulgarian workers and others when they have been rude when they have been discriminated against when they have not received their salaries etc. There are huge barriers on the part of employers in this area. And there are enormously poor educational opportunities for the people who come to our country. They can otherwise stand with the hat in their hands, as in the 1930s, and then they can let employers do what suits them. It is extremely difficult to enter such a labour market if you do not have a trade union in the back, if you do not have a Danish course in the back, if you do not get a proper introduction to Danish society. And that is a shared responsibility. That bridge has to be built. It's not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115046	I am quite prepared for fundamental changes to be made in the way in which we think of our passive support system, particularly in relation to immigrants and refugees. And the Left also has some very concrete suggestions as to how we can do this and we do so. But I simply do not buy the premise that it is basically the fault of Danish society that there are so few immigrants and so few refugees who are in work. It is not the fault of Danish society, and I am not going to stand here and take some blame for that on behalf of society. I simply do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115121	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115124	I'd like to ask about Mr. Morten Dahlin's attitude to the position of religion in society. What does Mr. Morten Dahlin about the Muslims who say they're Muslims before they're Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115136	I do not understand that basically; I do not understand that at all. Now you asked me what my position was, and that's that I don't understand. Well, it must be quite simple that if you bump into something at a time when there is a religious rule that is in the Koran, and then a Danish law, you should not break the Danish law, because your religious rule says otherwise. Clear bell: Danish law is at the top 100 percent. This is one of the things we need to be clear about, and again: in relation to the integration process, it is not we who should so bend us a little and say that then we must change our Danish law a little so that more Muslims can see themselves in it. That is why I am talking about the fact that it is not about bridging between Muslims and Danish legislation in this case. It's all about saying there's kind of a bridge. You must be allowed to be a practicing Muslim in Denmark, of course you must be a Muslim in Denmark, but it must be within the Danish laws and rules. That should be clear to everyone, but I have to say that unfortunately it does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115237	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115240	Well, then, it's natural for me to ask what, sir. Morten Dahlin's opinion is that the party colleague Mr. Mads Birded publicly says that he is a Christian before he is a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115251	Well, I don't understand, because I'm not religious myself. But I have never heard Mr. Mads Birded at any time be just near saying that if there is a place in the Bible and somewhere in Danish law that is contrary to each other, it is the Bible's precepts that he will follow. And that's the problem. It is that you are relativising and trying to demean it by saying that there is the same challenge, for example. with people who are Christians. There isn't. After all, there is not a huge social challenge with Christians that puts the Bible's statutes above the law. So I really think that what is there is to ridicule it a little bit, and that is to make the problem less than it really is. I think it is a huge obstacle to making the solutions that the SF needs such a thing there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115335	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115356	Thank you. I think that was a good speech, and I also think that the remarks made by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have been made. Morten Dahlin has now also returned to some times about integration, namely that it is not such a joint project with Denmark having to change, so that you want to be integrated into Denmark has been very apt, and I also think it has to be said that Denmark is one of the most generous countries in the world you can get to. All opportunities are made available for training, language training and all sorts of things. For many years you have been given a huge chance if you have come to Denmark as a foreigner or an immigrant, and I think you should take it with a kiss hand. Then I just want to say that I really think that speech, sir. Morten Dahlin here held, is part of the reason why I also remember this debate from last year as a good debate, because I think that we are going to sort of get ourselves up a little bit and that it is not just going to be controversial. We get such more reflected thoughts from the respective rapporteurs. I think so, sir. Morten Dahlin's speech has been a very good example of, so thank you for a good speech and some good reflections, including in the rapporteur's replies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115444	Well, thank you very much to the questioner. I'm like most people for praising words, so I'll take that to heart and be happy about it. And then I would say that I fully agree that we have a very generous system for foreigners to receive with their kissing hands, and I also believe that it is the vast majority of them. The vast majority of people who are here are behaving properly. They work, they contribute positively and also contribute some exciting new things that are good for Danish society. But that should not stop us from discussing those who do not. And I really believe that the more relativisations we make in terms of saying that, well, there are also some Christians who think something and so on, the more we actually harm the joint task that we have in creating solutions to the challenges we face. It requires that you be honest about what problems you are facing, and then we can have a conversation about how to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115536	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115540	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good speech. I took particular note of the rapporteur's words that, if foreign policy is not the greatest, it is at least one of the greatest challenges to be solved, and we in the New Citizens fully agree with that. We believe that this is the economy, our way of living together, the security of our society, the whole foundation of how we are as a community. That is why it has been crucial for us to say that if we were to be able to support a bourgeois government when we came to parliament, then it was essential for us to commit ourselves to solving these problems from the bottom up. Now we have been overtaken by the fact that the left has obtained a massive red majority and we have a government that has said on two out of three points: we would actually like to deal with this and try to resolve it. So my question to the rapporteur and the Left is: will the Left continue the work if the Left gets power in relation to a new asylum system? Will the Left continue to fight for foreigners not to live on public support, and will the Left do as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen said this summer that criminals should be convicted of serious crime without warning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115658	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115700	That is three things the rapporteur asked. In relation to whether the Left still thinks the same thing, as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen said this summer: I can confirm that. Whether the Left will continue the work in which I think the Left has not only taken part, but has led with some other parties since 2001 to increase the proportion of those who support themselves: quite clearly, and we are also making some proposals, and we were, for example, standing. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And whether we should have a better asylum system than what is today: we should, yes. I would like to say that the asylum system has, for the most part, so far been words; it was probably not so realistic, although the front page of the Socialists' proposal said that it was realistic. And then there are other elements that we will address, which I think the government has rolled in the wrong direction, i.e. something like higher benefits to unemployed foreigners • almost DKK 2,000. monthly tax-free. Well, there aren't many groups in this society that the government doesn't think should pay any more in taxes, but this was one of them. So, yes, we will continue with the work and then we will put upstairs when we hopefully one day come to power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115758	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115800	I and New Citizen are really happy about that. Now that the Social Democratic Party has made such an important contribution in this area, and I have no reason to believe that the Social Democrats do not mean it, when they say it, the question is simply whether now, by the vast majority who want to solve these problems, we can actually pool our strength and put this so significantly on the agenda that we together contribute and resolve it, so that we can talk about everything else that is also lame, and that in fact also goes beyond our civil values and our civil society. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115836	Our bourgeois, liberal society, I like to say. Because I think there is a difference, and Mrs Pernille Vermund and I can certainly discuss that for a long time. I fully agree that we must stand together and build a united Europe, and I hope that new citizens will take the lead there too, not only in this debate, but also in some others in the blue block. I'm sure we can do that at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115855	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, and I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122115941	Thank you for the floor. Foreign policy has long been one of the major political battlefields: that which can fuel the debate and fill the comments fields. Usually we connect battlegrounds with Roman gladiator arenas, where it can go wildly and there is great commitment, but where the result of the fight does not necessarily lead to anything; something right. This is also felt at times in the political arena when foreign policy is discussed. Refugee Island: What will this lead to? Jewel law: What's it gonna do? Clothing Police: Why? Ghetto law's bulldozer policy: what's the point? How does it get people into work, out of crime and into the education system? How does this help the needs of companies or welfare areas for labour? Foreign policy has, for many years, had a one-sided focus on the number of tightenings and cake, as if it were an end in itself. Instead of austerity or relaxation, it should be about common sense, and we in the Radical Left would like to point out three things in particular where common sense is lacking in the rules of the law today. For today we discriminate against Danish citizens. Not all Danish citizens can live in their own country, Denmark, with those they are in love with. Some can, and others can't. And we all know that you cannot always be master of who you fall in love with, but if the person has the wrong nationality by law, you are punished; then you cannot live with that person in your own home country. Most of all, love is said to be love. I wish it were in practice. Despite the fact that foreign spouses to Danish citizens are less criminal than ethnic Danes, and despite the fact that they are a profit business, also financially, it is up to you to get the one you love to Denmark. Common sense is lacking. There is also a lack of common sense when training does not count on an equal footing with employment in relation to permanent residence permits. Two weeks ago, I heard about Mussa. Mussa moved to Denmark from Afghanistan at the age of 13 because his parents were killed by the Taliban. Mussa hasn't been a criminal, but now he's being punished for grabbing an education. In Denmark we lack craftsmen. Mossa is therefore learning as a bricklayer, but it has consequences for Mussa: Now he cannot get permanent residence permit. The rules are that you have to be in work for at least 3 years and 6 months over the last 4 years, and training and internship do not count here, even if you have been an apprentice, earned money and paid tax on your salary. If Mussa had chosen unskilled work, he could have a permanent residence permit. That's what 3F calls fucking in the lid, and I totally agree with 3F. Let us put training on an equal footing with employment in relation to permanent residence permits. That would be common sense. Thirdly, it would be common sense to be able to obtain citizenship when you are 18 years old if you were born and raised in Denmark. Then you have been through primary school, and then you have had communities in Denmark. These are three key areas where common sense is lacking in legislation. That is why we want the area of foreigners to move from a battleground to a common sense place. It is common sense to help children from Moria, Danish children in Syria. It is common sense to be part of the UN quota system. We must move from speaking against and about people and instead talking to and talking to people. Integration succeeds in many places. We should commend that, but we can easily get more people into jobs and education and we can easily make demands. We need more solutions and less polarisation. This is how the Radical Left sees a strong Denmark in an international society. Therefore, I will read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the vast majority of new Danes are well integrated fellow citizens in Denmark and must be recognised as such. A foreign policy must be pursued which continues to support the positive development of integration and prevents parallel societies from emerging. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish and support communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist religious as well as extreme right environments that seek to undermine democracy. V 56).
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120459	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120506	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard asked me, when I was on the platform, about a personal matter which I could not really enter into, but which I also expressed immediately sounded very appealing. But we must not discriminate in Denmark. That's what's so terrible. That's the way it is. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard on a general level, what the rapporteur thinks when it comes to a person who, for example, works in home care, speaks Danish and has not been on cash aid, but who wants to wear a scarf and has four daughters, the youngest of whom is 7 years old, who also wears a scarf. The daughters have been in Somalia to be circumcised. The whole family goes to the mosque every day. Do they just have to be in Denmark the way they are? It's just to say that being Danish and speaking Danish, and that you don't necessarily have to be on cash benefits, that there are so many other things that make you delete, not even part of Danish society, and I don't think that the case I mention is like this in the woods.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120605	The difference between what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard read and what I mentioned is that what I mentioned is actually something that is real: one that stands to be expelled on 11 February and that is why I asked the specific question. Then a slightly more fictitious case was read up with a large number of more information than I asked myself before. So a fictitious case is, of course, extremely difficult to relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120628	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120630	Now I don't think mine was as fictitious as that, sir. Kristian Hegaard expressed himself earlier. I think it was quite specific: in other words, you do not have a Danish culture at all. You are not on cash aid, and you also speak Danish, but there are a lot of other things that make you not Danish at all. That's what I was just saying. Then I'd like to get back to the minority thing. The 280,000 from the MENAP countries, which it seems to be up to, is a minority. But think how much fuss, trouble, etc. such a minority may result. This is really, really problematic and not as rosy as Mr. Kristian Hegaard is trying to give the impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120717	I'm a little unsure what the question was here. But it is absolutely right that too few people are at work and that there are some who are over-represented in crime statistics, and that is what we must do, and we must strengthen integration and not give up on it. That is why we need to strengthen Danish education, we need to strengthen educational opportunities, because then we will achieve the integration that I can hear Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120742	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120745	It is undoubtedly the case that a number of problems have come to Denmark with immigration from Muslim countries, and this addition of problems to Denmark has been attempted, as has some tightening of the alien laws from primarily 2001 onwards. I know that the Radical Left has voted against all these restrictions. Is this how it seems to me today that I should be able to clarify that the Radical Left is still opposed to all the restrictions that have been introduced since 2001, or has the attitude changed along the way and thought that it was probably sensible enough anyway? Or is it still there that none of the austerity measures should have been implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120830	No, we do not intend to roll everything back since 2001 and that is why I outlined in my speech the three things that we first stand to change, and that is where there is no common sense in foreign policy, and that is where we think we should start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120847	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120848	So we have come to the point that the Radical Left can say today: we were wrong when we voted against all these austerity measures from 2001 onwards; it was actually right to implement these austerity measures, at least some of them, because we are not going to roll them back today, recognising that some of the austerity measures were necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120910	In 2001, I myself was ten years old, so I do not know exactly what has been voted for and against during the period that has been going on, but it is quite clear that we are not going to roll everything back since 2001. But there are also some things that need to be changed, and there are three things that stand for, and that was one of them. what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120934	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122120937	Thank you. I do not know how old the rapporteur was in 1983 if the rapporteur was even born then, I know that, because the rapporteur has just had a birthday ■ but I suppose that the rapporteur knows about the Aliens Act of 1983, and I also suppose that the rapporteur is aware of the Radical Left's responsibility for the Aliens Act. What we are debating today is the challenges that immigration has brought to Danish society and the pressure it has put on our community of values. Does the rapporteur and the Radical Left recognise that the law on foreigners of 1983 was a fatal mistake which has created massive challenges for our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121021	In 1983, I was minus 8 years old, so it's been a while. And thank you for recognising that as a lawyer you know all the prehistoric laws that have applied over time. If we are to look at everything historically, then I also know that Mrs Pernille Vermund belonged to another party, where foreign policy and such things were not so much concerned. There is no doubt that, of course, from 1983 until today, there is a great deal of difference, and that is why it is also clear that we are not going to roll everything back. I do not think the Radical Left has ever said that that has been adopted since 2001. Time is different, and that is why the legislation today is also different from it was in 1983.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121110	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121111	Although the rapporteur, like me, is new to the Folketing, in an incredibly short time the rapporteur has become incredibly capable of giving political answers, for there was no answer in what came from the rapporteur. I have no problem with saying quite clearly: the Aliens Act of 1983 was a huge, fatal mistake and is the reason why we are facing the massive challenges we have today and, in fact, the reason why we, the New Citizens' Party, have been formed and that a party like the Danish People's Party is here. So can the rapporteur not just say, and I expect the rapporteur to know the law and the consequences of it, whether it was a mistake to make the Aliens Act of 1983?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121150	At that time, in 1983, it may have been the right thing to do, but it is clear that it would not be right to have the law of 1983 today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121200	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121203	Thank you. I take note of the fact that there were some political proposals which Mr. Kristian Hegaard thought would be common sense, and I have to say that I actually think that they would all be uncommon sense if they were implemented. I simply do not share that assessment. I would like to ask a question: does Mr. Kristian Hegaard knows about a single other country in the world, where you can travel to, settle down, get a taxpayer-funded education, be on transfer income and receive su, and when you have been it for a number of years receive a permanent residence permit and then be supported on the public account for the rest of your life? Did Mr. Kristian Hegaard knows about such a country, for it is such a country, sir. Kristian Hegaard would like to turn Denmark into if he had power, as he has heeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121250	No, that's not true. And you can't just go to Denmark and then just get an education and then just one thing and the other you can't just do that. There are a number of requirements just to stay in Denmark. So it can be said that the premise put forward in the question simply does not fit. But what would be common sense if a person were to stay in Denmark and receive a tax-paying education, which is a good investment in the person's education, is the best investment in people that that person was then also given the opportunity to get a job where he could use that education. Therefore, it would be common sense when we invest in education that it could then be included in the assessment by applying for permanent residence permits on an equal footing with employment, so that we use the investments in Denmark that we make.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121338	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121340	No, sir. Kristian Hegaard is right that this is not the case in Denmark, because we are a broad majority who do not want it to be so. And it is also true that there are some other criteria to be met in order to obtain a permanent residence permit........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But now it was a hypothetical situation that Mr. Kristian Hegaard received support for his proposal that education should help one earn the right to a permanent residence permit, for then it would create a situation where one could come to Denmark, have a residence basis as a refugee for a period, register for a su- entitled education, and when one had been a few years in su, one had the right to a permanent stay. Well, that's just about sir. Kristian Hegaard knows of any country in the world where it is, for that is it, sir. Kristian Hegaard wishes to be the case in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121424	No, first of all, you can't just come to Denmark and just get a stay. There are a large number of demands, and I know the sharp questioner is also well aware of that. There is something about the possibility of a special stay, or you have to have money on the bank account. There are a large number of demands that I know the questioner is aware of. But it's just that when you had a stay in Denmark and you got an education, it would be great if that education were used in Denmark. In other words, if there are companies that demand the competences, if there are welfare areas where they are asked for, it would be a fantastic investment for Denmark and good tax revenue for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121503	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121506	Unfortunately, in 1983, I was 30 years old and had three children, so I remember everything that was mentioned. And I can say for the rapporteur's information that the Radical Left at that time was glowing I would actually say that the Radical Left was the driving force. So after what has been done, it is relevant to ask: What then? But I can understand a little radically now that you like to resign and say: well, well, let the government, for which we are the supporting party, conduct foreign policy with the bourgeois. Is that not what we are doing, that is to say that we are not going to talk about it any more in the Radicals; let the government do what it thinks it should do? Is that it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121556	No, I certainly think that the Radical Left is still holding the tab high, and we will continue to do so. We're glad we've dropped the refugee island Lindholm. We're glad we've got the kids out of the Travel Center Soulsmark and stuff like that. And we shall continue to do so; it is the radical policy that we support. And, most recently in the context of the Finance Act, we have succeeded in persuading the conciliation parties to invest more in investing in strengthening efforts to combat negative social control. So you can be absolutely calm and be sure that the radical alien and integration policy continues with the tab held high.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121634	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121635	Yeah, I know you keep the fan high and you say a whole lot. I'm aware of that. But what I am really asking is: is this something that today means as much to the Radical Left as it did in 1983? Is that something that matters so much that you are prepared to overthrow the Socialist Government on it? Or has it really resigned and said: the policy of foreigners makes the government together with the bourgeois? You have to be able to give a fairly precise answer to that. Are you going to knock the government over on this question, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121704	I can certainly say that the Radical Left is fighting on all Søren Espersen. That is, of course, what our mandates justify, and that is why we will fight to the maximum to have as much influence as possible in all policy areas. We did so in 1983, and we do so in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121729	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121732	I took note of the fact that the rapporteur had a proposal on citizenship, and it described the rapporteur as common sense. I think that is exactly the opposite. However, in addition to the proposal made here by the rapporteur, I would like to hear whether the Radical Left is still holding back the policy put forward by the former radical leader Morten Østergaard three years ago, who said that if you have passed the primary school's examination and not committed crime, we will sign as a society with Danish citizenship for exams. Is it still a matter of radical left policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121810	It would be common sense if you were born and raised in Denmark to get through primary school, whether it is after primary school or when you are 18, you get Danish citizenship. After all, what is called the primary school's purpose clause has actually been fulfilled. There is something about democracy and citizenship, and that would be common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121832	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121833	So, whether you have supported yourself, whether you have shown knowledge of Danish social conditions by passing a citizenship test or not, you just have to have given this Danish citizenship. Can the rapporteur explain this? Is it because the Radical Left sees citizenship as a right, that is to say, that one simply has the right to have it? Or what kind of problems is this proposal going to solve, so who is it going to benefit? Is it Danish society, or is it, because you basically see citizenship as a right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121911	Now it's the case that you don't get the primary school's graduation certificate. There you have to pass a series of exams, you have to have a character etc., so that is why you have to earn it if you are born and raised in Denmark. After all, there are a number of things in the primary school clause which must be fulfilled as part of graduating, so there is certainly nothing to be given. You earn that when you are born and raised in Denmark and have also graduated from primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121943	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122121945	Thank you. I'm just like sir. Kristian Hegaard is very concerned about stopping negative social control, and fortunately it is something that we are many parties in here who are concerned about. I believe that one of the obstacles to stopping this is the mutual dependency, in other words, that you may be in a situation where you are financially dependent on your husband. That is why I would just like to ask the Radical Left whether it was not time for us to abolish the mutual dependents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122017	I have a great deal of sympathy for the issue, but I also know that there are a number of economic calculations concerning the abolition of the mutual dependents, which show that it represents a very significant amount. That is why I am not going to say anything about this in relation to the economic priorities. But I have great sympathy for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122039	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122040	We just need a little more than sympathy to help these women. We need to change the law. As I said, I do not think it is enough for us to place some money on the budget and give good initiatives some money to do their good work. I also think there is some legislation that means that we are not going to help these women, and one of those laws has made us create a system where you are financially dependent on your husband, and it is in my optics something that belongs to the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122108	Some calculations have been made on this, I know, and I think it is in the Ministry of Finance, and it is quite a considerable amount of billions that it will cost to get rid of it. Of course, it requires some priorities if you want to, but as I said, I have quite a lot of sympathy for the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122128	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party: Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122159	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard started the question debate by stating quite clearly: our society is changing, our values are changing. That's right, because we're moving. Culture and Danishness are not something stationary, and fortunately you can be a Dane in many ways. The dictatorship in Denmark was transformed into a democratic government in Old-fashioned, reactionary perceptions of power relations were challenged by the peasant movement, and the workers' movement changed forever the perception of what Denmark stands for. Now it is freedom, equality and solidarity that has become almost a Danish value and not just a desperate cry from a ready-to-fight working class. The youth uprising fundamentally changed relations between the sexes and also led to a completely different kind of respect for children and young people. So Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is quite right: both society and values change. I also believe that one of the most important reasons why the Danes repeatedly turn out to be a happy people is that we have developed a culture which is so much anti-authoritarian and with flat hierarchies. It is often the case in the encounter with strangers that we are minding our own values either through our own travels abroad or are about to meet people with ethnic minority backgrounds in this country. In recent years we have seen a country that is close to us, namely the United States, looking for its own roots, perhaps in a more American way: they are looking for their souls. Bruce Springsteen sang "Land of Hope and Dreams" at the inauguration of Biden as president, and Denmark must also be a country based on hopes and dreams. Indeed, Denmark is the country where the original American dream is possible. However, with regard to immigration, we have a number of challenges. In a report from VIVE, published last year, you can among other things. read about Samira, who, shortly after she says she will divorce, must experience her husband abducting their children to the Middle East and holding them hostage until she adjusts. And we can read about Wafa, who has been told by an imam that he cannot dissolve her marriage without the man's consent, although the man will only divorce if Wafa surrenders his daughter to him. Yes, the report is in fact a horror cabinet of horror stories. These women's fates are taking place in Denmark, and it is an almost absurd tragedy, and it is even more tragic that we are far too little able to seize these women before they fall. Our crisis centres do not have enough resources, they lack geographical coverage and they are underfunded. It's not all bad, is it? Several minority women are being educated, an increasing number of rebels are changing patriarchal patterns in families, and they meet with support. We have seen a string of female writers and debaters with ethnic minority backgrounds that give us all new insights. Yeah, it could be Sara Omar, Geeti Amiri, Halime Oguz or anyone else. In the SF we talk about integration as something that is not clearly good or that things are going badly. When there are Muslim women who are haunted by a man because he has a religious claim to maintain an otherwise legally broken marriage, then integration is obviously bad, but when women break out of reactionary cultural patterns and train themselves, it is just as obvious that it is wrong to claim that everything is lost. That is where we believe that the debate on foreigners should be, namely that we resolve the challenges that are obvious and that we have a sincere conversation about them without being afraid of touch, but that we also recognise that the vast majority of immigrants contribute to society. I can see nothing more than that the only ones who have an interest in denying the relatively banal division are those who get the wind of either drawing rosy shine pictures or darkened delusions of the complex reality that is out there. I understand that there are four proposals for adoption, and I think that is far too little. So now I have a proposal here from the SF which reads: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an immigration policy needs to be pursued so that the integration task can be handled and no parallel societies arise. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist environments that try to undermine democracy. V 57).
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122745	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122753	If we now imagined that the doors to entering Denmark were open, we could also expect the Danish population to look quite different in a few decades. There would be many more people from the Muslim world where people currently do not want to live. They would rather live in Denmark or elsewhere in Europe. If we said that half of the people in Denmark were Muslims, then we also know that they have on average quite different values compared to the Danes, and thus you would have a quite different country, because Denmark is built on the population as there is. Does it provide the basis for some reflections in the SF? After all, the SF was also one of the parties that voted against all the tightening up of the immigration policy that was from 2001 and in the following period. Is that something SF regrets today? Is it the case that the SF says today: No, it was actually wrong that we voted against all the austerity, because you could end up with a country that was quite different if we had not done so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122855	In the SF, we acknowledge that it is not very difficult, because it is obvious that it presents society with a number of challenges with immigration. It's obvious. And the number also has a meaning. It is also quite obvious. I think the Danish people have the right to have an opinion on what kind of society they want to live in. That is what can help define us as people and as countries. That it should then be translated into such a, what can be said, procurator review of the individual laws that have been adopted, I really think the debate is too important for, because I would rather come to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in a meeting by saying that there has been a change in the way one thinks in the SF and on the left about immigration and integration on the island not just in a year, but over the years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122948	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122122949	I also sense that there has been a change not at Enhedslisten, for example, nor at Radical Left, but at SF. That is why I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge should be able to answer the question of whether all the restrictions that the SF voted against in the 00s in Danish politics, where a dispute with the Aliens Act of 1983, was a mistake. You can say that honestly. I know, sir. Karsten Hønge would like to give the impression that people should have the impression of him that he says what he means and means what he says. - Sir... Karsten Hønge then just answer honestly: Was it a mistake to vote against all the tightening in the 00s?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123028	Well, it's not either or. I'm not in a position to remember all of them, but I'm gonna be there, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has so much to say that I am quite sure that there are things that we voted against which we would not vote against today. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123041	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123044	Thank you. And thank you for the rose. It's just before you get really popular. Karsten Hønge Nja). No, okay, you don't. It was a party colleague behind me who said that. I don't. I don't have to imagine anything. But I'd like to ask Sir. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party one question. After all, we had this debate almost exactly a year ago on 17 January and there it was Mr. Carl Valentin, rapporteur, and I asked Mr. Carl Valentin, what immigration had brought Denmark of good things. Now I am not thinking of the individual immigrant, because I have no doubt that immigrants over the ages have been able to bring many good things to Denmark; I am thinking of immigration as such. And after sir... Carl Valentin had been thinking for quite a long time, he said that there for example. was hip-hop and karate... he saw that as really good things. - Sir... Karsten Hønge think of other things? And now I am thinking, not of the individual immigrants, but of immigration as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123142	When I won the prize of being rapporteur today, I thought I should read it out, so I printed out the whole debate that was going on a year ago, and I sat there and read it. And I clearly remember that last night, while I was reading it, I thought that it was an interesting exchange that you had had about hiphop and karate, and also Mrs Rosa Lund from Parliament's platform said that she was an out and proud poptous. So I've been around everything. My answer will be that I do not need to make people up for value in that way. Now I'm born and raised in Nykøbing Mothers, and I don't know if Morsingboer • we ourselves have contributed much. But with regard to taking out individual groups and asking what they have contributed, it may be possible, for example, to do so. be difficult to show in concrete terms what Morsingboes have contributed. We ourselves think we have contributed a great deal, but it will also be the case with the Zealanders and others who may be harder to find. But I do not have that need to say that immigration has meant exactly that or that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123238	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123240	I would venture to claim that immigration has brought nothing positive to Denmark so I think we can recognise it just as well now that we have come as far as I feel we are, where also the Socialist People's Party in this debate says that there are things you would have done differently today and that you would have voted differently if it had been today. I think that is a huge step forward, I must say, and I welcome that. But I think we can just as well tackle the root of the nettle and pull it up and say that immigration has contributed so badly to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123335	I do not quite understand the division that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard made just now by saying that this is not about the individual immigrant, but about immigration. At least these things are connected. It cannot be said that immigration as such has brought nothing negative with it only when I can see that we in the Assembly have excellent members with ethnic minority backgrounds. It cannot be said that Mrs Halime Oguz, who is in the SF parliamentary group, does not contribute because she apparently belongs, in Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's opinion, to a group of people who, overall, do not. So it is not possible to separate immigration from the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123359	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123402	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask specifically about one of the negotiations that we will be faced with when we do not know, because it has been postponed sometimes but this course of negotiations that will start on the basis of the recommendations of the Service Commission, where we have among other things. to discuss how to move a large part of the group we are talking about here today from passive support and into the labour market. SF has decided with the government to raise social benefits to this group. How does SF see that level of performance should be forward-looking? Does the SF imagine that you can remove the temporary family allowance again, or will it be the kind of thing the SF stands firm about entering into the negotiations, or how does the SF see this here? And what other instruments does the SF envisage, apart from the lower benefits, could be used to increase the level of immigrants and refugees entering the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123458	Just in case, sir. Morten Dahlin could make it clear to me that if you put down the benefits, all these people would go to work, I would actually consider for a moment whether that was something you should do. There's just no sign of it. There's no sign of it. The cash relief ceiling hit 30,000 families and got on a good day with sunshine and winds on bike paths 479 people at work. So there isn't that automatic coupling that if you make life miserable for people, they get to work. I simply find it difficult to understand why the fact that we are allowing children to grow up in poverty should do better. On the contrary, everything suggests that just one year of poverty has impact in the rest of your life, and the longer you are there, it manifests itself more strongly for good reasons in the individual's ability to get education and jobs and gives you the greater chance that you end up on early retirement. So I don't recognize the connection between if you just put the benefits down, people get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123556	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123557	Should I understand this in the sense that SF sees no possibility for itself that the extra money that has now been set aside for higher benefits will be removed again in an agreement? Because then I think we are looking into a course of negotiations in which the government has to look left to find a majority, because I find it very difficult to see any blue parties accepting the higher benefits as part of the future system of benefits. SF is holding hands under the government, which is why it is interesting to know if SF can see such an agreement. If SF cannot, then SF has almost collective power to force the government to look left. Because I cannot imagine that there are any blue parties who would agree to such an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123638	Well, we're not just holding hands under the government, we're crazy about it, not too, so we're gonna get a lot of good results together. This service is dedicated to families with children. We saw a dramatic increase in the number of poor children in Denmark, actually 20,000, so we ended up at 64,500 poor children. With this benefit, that number is now down. I do not see any argument at all as to why we should be able to have a better society, in the longer term, get these children into jobs and education or get their parents into work by making the children poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123714	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123716	Thank you, and also thank you to Mr. Karsten Hønge for such a slightly more historical review in his speech on how it has been with foreign policy in Denmark. I think that the SF as a party has moved at least slightly in relation to some of the agendas we are talking about here, with Danish values. But I would like to ask SF if SF agrees that it is in these years that we decide the direction of our foreign policy. Now there was a fine interview with the Minister of Integration in the newspapers today, where he is putting up with something other than what the SF thinks. And that's where I'd like to ask sir. Karsten Hønge: Isn't this a crucial moment in terms of our values and our foreign policy right now, in terms of what direction we are turning? Let me just remind you that the influx of asylum that we have experienced in recent years is relatively low due, among other things, to. Covid-19, but there are large migrations on the way that want to go up to northern Europe. So when is the SF on an asylum stop? That's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123828	Well, it is clear that in this time it is extremely important how we place ourselves both in terms of immigration and in terms of integration. I do not know whether the situation here is different from that in the last 20 years, when we have discussed it very intensively. Well, that was also a lot, what to say, urgent in the 1990s, and it was in the '00s to a large extent, so I do not see that it should be exactly now. But I recognize Mr. Peter Skaarup's idea of saying that these are major choices we face. We need to be better at dealing with integration, and I also welcome the fact that there are significantly fewer asylum seekers. I may have a slightly different angle on it. It is not primarily because they are not at the Danish border, but because the need is not there, because apparently fewer people are being pushed away. And that is probably the starting point of our humanism: that we are pleased that there are fewer asylum seekers, hopefully because there are fewer reasons why they are being pushed out of their countries. I think this is one of the most important discussions, both culturally, economically and socially. So at all levels, this is an extremely important discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123928	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122123929	I could actually imagine that too, that is to say, that Mr. Karsten Hønge would think it was one of the important discussions, because it is of course about the whole cohesion of our society. It is also about our labour market. I mean, do those who come here contribute? And unfortunately, they don't. Whatever many, many efforts are being made in our society to ensure that this can happen, it does not happen to a large extent far from it. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge: Is it not time for the SF to settle the estate and say that if we are to have any chance of getting those who have come into the labour market to contribute, then we need to have an asylum stop and, by the way, to have those who do not want to be here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124012	Well, it's just hard to separate the number of asylum seekers from the situation in the world. We can't just say that now we're turning ourselves out of that world. Because, for example, when we say that there must be an asylum stop, there can be an international crisis which means that even more people are being sent to flee. Should we then be bound by the fact that there is an asylum freeze which means that we cannot operate in relation to the extra need for protection that a number of people are experiencing? I guess you can't. I believe, however, that the most important thing is that we in Denmark are very enthusiastic about the country we have built up and stand as lawyers for it when we meet other cultures.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124049	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124051	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned the report by VIVE, and I share the understanding that it is totally untenable that it is going on in Denmark. In the past, I asked the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister and the government would help to strengthen the demands of the Islamic religions in Denmark. After all, we have Islamic religions that are recognised, and there are a number of superior and more administrative requirements that must be met in order to be recognised as religious communities in Denmark. In New Citizens we would really like to see no recognition of religions which preach hatred against Jews and homosexual Danes, which oppress women and maintain them in forced marriages, and which, moreover, undermine our democracy and our freedom. But will SF help to ensure in the first place that these demands that women should not be retained in forced marriages become part of a condition for obtaining recognition as a religion in Denmark? Well, will the SF help to tighten up the requirements for the recognition of religions so we get away from this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124204	I think we have a very proud tradition in Denmark of being very liberal towards whom we recognise as a religion. After all, we can recognise and recognise religions that are far away from what we now believe in. I saw yesterday on television that now Spiritistic Society was apparently also approved for it. Well, I guess we're in every corner. So I like that. I like that they are approved for it, although for me it is a rather special way of thinking. So what's normal, what to say, is that we need to throw out a few different religions precisely, but only at the same time that they get these social recognitions that they can do weddings, funerals, etc. But it is often not a religion as such that makes that sermon of hatred, but there may be mosques, there may be churches, there may be religious or Christian minorities who can do so, and there I think we should limit their ability to spread their hate messages in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124310	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124311	But the dilemma here, when we talk specifically about the marriages, is that the Islamic marriage, nikkah, means that if you have to divorce again, it is with some prerequisites that are not Danish law and right, but which is that the man must say that he wants to divorce, and that he must say it a number of times, etc. This means, of course, that when we recognise their right to marry, we also recognise the Islamic marriage with the conditions attached to it. In this way, we can risk that there are Muslim women in Denmark who enter into a marriage on the assumption that this is how it is done in Denmark because the Danish state has recognised it. Can't the SF see that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124353	Well, that's certainly a problem where an imam helps to keep a woman in prison. However, as I understand it, the vast majority of imams recognize the vast majority of mosques after all divorces. With regard to the places where you should not do so, I do not quite know whether you can do something illegal more illegal by saying that it is illegal. It's just that I don't quite know where to do it. Well, it's illegal to prevent people from getting divorced, because there's a Danish law that trumps. Of course, it trumps a statement from an imam at any time. Should we make it more illegal by saying it's illegal? But if you can do something, we're open to it. It's not. I do not entirely reject the idea that further steps could be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124434	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124436	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying how pleased I am that the SF has moved on to these issues and that it is also recognised. I think that is important in order to get Denmark in the right direction. In particular, the rapporteur's colleague, Halime Oguz, has made some very good efforts, particularly in relation to combating negative social control in Muslim environments and was out with some good announcements about it. However, just in the wake of this, the rapporteur's President, Pia Olsen Dyhr, came at a time of announcements about the problems of negative social control in the Christian environments, and that is not because you cannot find it in a single school or in a single teacher or family. But does the SF really think that it is at all and in any way proportional to see the very wide-ranging challenges that are in the Muslim environments, in comparison with the Christian environments, where, in my view, there is essentially the opposite? Because there's freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124535	No, the proportions are not there with each other, nor has Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's intention with that statement. Of course, there is clearly a proportion where there are far more belonging to fundamentalist Muslim environments than there is to Christians. Of course there is. Therefore, the challenge is far greater, and you have to do the analysis correctly in order to get the right medicine, which is why it is by far the most important part. But it is also part of the picture that there are other religious minorities who also have a culture that binds people and, in particular, binds women. As I told you earlier today from the platform, I must say from my own geographical point of view that not many can teach me much about how the Inner Mission behaves, can I? When I went to school, they tried to hold on to the girls, and where the rest of us stood like those who tried to tell them that they should do that. So they exist, too. But as far as the proportions are concerned, I will give Mr. Marcus Knuth is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124637	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124638	I'm really, really happy about that. Then I also hope that the rapporteur will support us Conservatives in saying that some of what we need not only to safeguard but also to promote, in order to preserve the cohesion of Danish society and its culture, are indeed Christian values. We've got one of them. It was said that such things as Christianity teaching must be much more re-established in schools, both for the sake of the many Christian students, but also, of course, so that the students who have come from outside can learn from the Christian values on which our society is based. Is this something the SF will back us up in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124711	So, our society is based on many things other than Christianity, and having a real Christianity education may seem a little crooked to me, although I would like it to be so much. It was awesome. It was my best class when I was in primary school. So it's not that I don't have a close relationship with it, and it's very, very important. It is important for children and young people in Denmark that they learn the story behind why we in Denmark are as we are, and also learn and understand what Christianity is. I think that is important. But if you have to increase the teaching of it exactly, I don't know. By the way, I feel like Bob Hope. Do you remember the guy who was a stand-up before there were stand-ups? I feel the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124753	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. While Mr. Karsten Hønge just sprittes off, we have Enhedslisten's rapporteur standing ready. Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122124813	Thank you. There are some things that you can be sure of every year: one is that Matador is re-issued in December, and the other is that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard calls for this debate at some point during the year. I think that is a good thing, because it means both that we can have this more general debate here, but it also means that we may be able to dispel prejudices that often flourish in the foreign debate. The employment rate among non-western immigrants and descendants is 58.6%. By comparison, the Danes are 77.6%. That's the closest the two numbers have been to each other for many years. 62% In the case of young people with a non-western background in general residential areas, training has been completed at the age of 25 and has thus been listened to by a majority in this House who believe that the education system should be toned through. And many of the people who are front-staffing right now and have helped us get through the corona crisis better than so many other countries such as sosu assistants, helpers, cashiers, bus drivers, pharmacists, have different ethnic backgrounds than Danish. I think that's a good thing. But there are also challenges and problems. Of course there are. One of the major problems that I think we have in Denmark today is the question of young people and adult women who are subjected to negative social control where they live, by their families and in their close relationships. I have attended primary school and club at Nørrebro with several with strong religious parents. I have taken care of children in a day care centre where I have had to help mothers contact shelters so that they could get away from a man and a residential area where negative social control was exercised over them. That is why I am also pleased that the Finance Act provided us with a new crisis centre for young people with a dual minority background and provided a small pool to stop negative social control. Unfortunately, I do not think that is enough. I believe that much more is needed. Pedagogues, teachers and social workers must have better tools to spot negative social control. There must be easier access to citizenship for children born in this country so that they cannot be threatened by their parents. The mutual dependent must be abolished, so that no woman is dependent on their husband's income. And then it should not be the case that young people can lose their residence permit because they have been out of the country for a long time. In this context, I would just like to say that I agree with the government that it is sensible to change the law so that passports can be withdrawn if there is a suspicion that a young person should leave the country against his will. After all, it is virtually impossible to have a nuanced attitude in the debate on foreigners and integration. In fact, I think that is practically impossible, but I think it is important that we get all the nuances in it. I think it is important that we both talk about what works and what does not work, because how else should we become wiser and resolve the problems that we face? Besides going to primary school and club at Nørrebro, I also went to high school at Nørrebro, so maybe my outlook isn't that big. But the other day I met one of my old classmates, who was educated as a primary school teacher, and until Corona hit us, he also ran a café at Nørrebro. He was born in Denmark, his parents are originally from Lebanon, they have work in Denmark, and they have learned to speak Danish. I promised not to mention his name, but when I met him, we talked about one thing in particular. He asked me: Rosa, why are your colleagues afraid of me? Because he is originally from Lebanon, he naturally has a different skin colour than I do, and he experiences being put in the booth with those whom the Prime Minister, above a broad comb, called immigrant boys. This means that he often has to defend that he is Danish and that he feels Danish, although he was born in Denmark, his children were born in Denmark, his parents speak Danish and work in Denmark. Nevertheless, he must defend that he is Danish. I think this is a challenge to the cohesion of our country, and it makes me really, really sad. I have to say that I believe that, apart from the fact that this obviously makes it harder for him, it is also one of the things that makes us face many more problems. I mean, we could avoid a lot of trouble if we dropped this stigmatization and suspicion. Today's debate is about Danish values, and I think it is very clear that we understand the issue of Danish values differently. I believe, for example, that an important Danish value is the rule of law, and I believe that our rule of law is under pressure, and that has nothing to do with immigration. Now I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125328	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125333	I think it is both wrong to place very great emphasis on negative examples of immigrants, and I also think it is wrong to place very great emphasis on positive examples of immigrants, as Mrs Lund does, because that is not what this is about. It is about the fact that there are some general problems associated with receiving many immigrants from Muslim countries. Under the general rule is that some are really positive people to get to Denmark, and some are really negative. But what we have to deal with are the general problems. That is why my question to Mrs Rosa Lund, which I have put to the SF and Radicals, is the same: the general tightening of immigration policy in Denmark, which was implemented in the 00s, all of us voted against the Enhedslisten. Has the Enhedslisten regretted it today, and is it estimated that some of them were needed anyway, or is Enhedslisten still gone where they say: it was absolutely right to vote against all the tightening?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125436	I am convinced that it was quite right to vote against all the austerity measures, enough to be a great disappointment to Mr Beazley. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, whom I have been surprisingly in agreement with the last few days; so it is perhaps very good that we have just highlighted some disagreements in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125451	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125453	Yes, that is a disappointment, because that is why I think that Mrs Rosa Lund is joining the rational part of Danish immigration policy. Because if you imagine that the immigration we had to Denmark during the 1980s and 1990s could take place further up the 00s and until today, without it having very, very negative consequences for Danish society, then you do not have a rational, realistic approach to foreign policy. Then you find yourself on some populist exaggeration where you just talk to some electorate groups that you want to contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125529	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125530	Well, it's interesting that sir... Ole Birk Olesen thinks I'm the one who's in a populist place, because I don't know if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has noticed that Enhedslisten's proposal in this area is pretty much in the headwind. That is the one thing I would like to say. The second thing I would like to say is that some of what I think is really a pity is that the Enhedslisten does not actually receive recognition for the great work we have put in the fight against negative social control. When I go back and look at Mrs Line Barfod's old proposal and Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen's old proposal, a great deal has actually been done. But you refuse to accept that, just as you do in here, because you want to place Enhedslisten in a place where you do not take negative social control seriously, and I am personally sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125611	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125612	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund for her speech. I'm just wondering something. You use the example of someone being asked some questions and feeling some sort of possible cold from somebody else at this place of education. Why should such an example be taken so hard? The thing is, if it was a Danish student who went to another country, if a Dane went to, for example. Saudi Arabia would then be asked questions, and then you would be wondering whether the person is saudi or something else. So, understand me correctly, the thing is that it is not surprising that some people ask: Where do you come from, what is your background, do you support Danish values etc. etc.? That's not surprising. That will also lead to the discussion, which Mr. Ole Birk Olesen travels well, I think. Do we not just agree that Denmark must continue to be a relatively homogeneous country, otherwise we will have all these conflicts, as Mrs Lund has said? And does the Enhedslisten not bear the blame for the fact that we have such conflicts when we are in favour of open borders and still do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125727	We are not, of course, in favour of open borders. What we are in favour of is that we live up to our international obligations, which are the Convention on Human Rights and which are indeed the Convention on Refugees. And the refugee convention means that when some people come to Denmark and seek asylum, they must have the right to have their asylum applications examined in this country. So that is what we are in favour of. And then I think that Mr. Peter Skaarup may be right in saying that we can all have a responsibility for the fact that there are major conflicts, and I should like to take it on board that Enhedslisten also sometimes has a rhetoric that comes up a little in the high field. But if we could all agree to nuance the debate on foreigners a little more, I actually think we could all win on it. That means that it is not just me who does it, but that it is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125809	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125810	But listen, the Enhedslisten is extremists here. The unitary list, together with the Radical Left, is the most extremist party in the field of foreigners. Because even if Mrs Rosa Lund says that the Enhedslisten is not in favour of open borders, that is what you are doing. You are against every single time the Danish People's Party wants border controls. You are therefore opposed, every single time the Danish People's Party has had tightenings implemented in the Danish Parliament. Every single time the Enhedslisten votes against. So you are very much responsible for the fact that we are in the soupdas, which means that every single year Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has to raise this debate to try to get some parties on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125850	I think it's crazy that Mr. Peter Skaarup calls Enhedslisten extremists. We are a democratic party. There are a lot of Danes who have voted for us. We are sitting here with 13 seats. And right now it is ironically Enhedslisten who defends constitutional rights and who defends the law of ministerial responsibility and the constitution. So I think it's a long way off when mr. Peter Skaarup says I should be the extremist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125920	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122125924	I am surprised by the example that Mrs Rosa Lund gives with a friend and this urge to insist on misunderstanding what has been said by, among others. The Prime Minister and others about problems with non-western immigrants. One could very easily produce a statistic that showed that men are more violent than women. It wouldn't make me think they're talking about me, they don't like me, and they think I'm violent. That would make me think that there is then an over-representation and there are too many men who are violent against women in relation to women. Why do we not think in the same way in the circles where Mrs Rosa Lund is going, if we hear of some statistics, or if we hear of some examples that there is an over-representation of crime from people from these MENAP countries, that is, from Muslim countries, rather than immediately feeling as a victim and immediately feeling that it is a sin for you and that someone is after you? I don't understand this need to be a victim. So I would also like to say: where does this claim come from, that is, that Denmark is no longer a constitutional state? The Danish Court of Justice's newsletter refers to various studies, including: World Justice Project, which is such an international ranking of the level of rule of law around the world. As far as I remember, Denmark was at the top of this inventory last year as well as last year. How, then, can one just throw out that Denmark is not a rule of law anymore? According to this inventory, we're the world's best rule of law. It's just become something you can say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130053	To take the first one first, it is not my experience that it is the statistics that are being responded to, but more the claims that are being hurled out. In fact, I am making a lot of effort to listen to what the Prime Minister says, which is why I heard both the Prime Minister's opening speech and, in fact, read the speech papers, where there were two different things. It says something about you've been trying to draw a certain picture. Then I'll answer the other one. I should like to say this again: I am not saying that Denmark is not a rule of law, but I am saying that I am concerned about the rule of law. These are two very different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130124	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130133	However, the rule of law is not under pressure. Well, this statement clearly shows that. It's just something you can say, isn't it? It is just a free round to say that the rule of law is under pressure because something is not right. It's so easy. So for something else. We are trying to talk about reality as it is, instead of what Mrs Rosa Lund and her like-minded dreamer about it should be, but is not. We have integration challenges and we have a significant over-representation in crime. The statistics read out by Mrs Rosa Lund are not very precise, because Mrs Rosa Lund does not take into account the division in that, for example, it does not take into account the fact that, for example, there is an increase in the number of young people in the Community. non-western people coming from China or Brazil are doing well in Denmark. But there is a marked over-representation of people who do far too badly when there are people coming from the Muslim world. If Mrs Lund then insists on continuing to mix pears and bananas in the non-western category, then it will be a less accurate picture than the picture we have used this morning to discuss with the new figures from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130234	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130238	I have to say to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund, that when you introduce legislation that allows people to be deprived of citizenship by fingertips; when you introduce legislation where not everyone gets the right to choose their own defence lawyer; when you introduce legislation that does not require judicial review, then I think that the rule of law is under pressure. And I think it's quite fair that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has a different view. I think that the development we have seen in Denmark for the last 10 years has meant that such a method of salami has been put in place in the rule of law. I thought it was something that was only done in the public sector where a little more has been cut off and cut off a little more all the time. I think it's quite fair that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund isn't worried about it, but I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130321	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130327	Thank you. The greatest pressure and the greatest threat to our rule of law today are therefore migration from Muslim countries, and it is the people who put a different set of rules on the rule of law that we live by, namely the democratically adopted laws. So the rule of law is massively under pressure because of people who are whistling indifferent to our way of life, to our legislation and to the authorities responsible for ensuring law and order in our society. But that's not what I wanted to say. The rapporteur mentions negative social control in his rapporteur's speech, and it is quite obvious that negative social control exists in all cultures and countries, but it exists to a great extent among people coming from Muslim countries and in Islamic culture. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130417	At any rate, I would like to acknowledge that in some extremely Islamic environments there is a high degree of negative social control. And when we look at the extra beds in shelters that were set up in the spring during corona, where everyone had to be very much at home, we saw that it was very much women with other ethnic background who needed those beds. That just confirms to me once again that it was good, however, that we secured more seats in the women's crisis centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130444	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130447	But it's just a Band-Aid on a bleeding flesh wound. One of the things that has made the most impression on me is a case worker who, incidentally, was left-wing, who said that the worst thing we can do for women is to let them grow up in Denmark, take an education, and what they are doing, because then they will be forced to marry a man from their country of origin, and then they will fight straight back to the meat pots. I get so upset when I hear it. And if you insist that you have to pursue an alien policy that takes account of international conventions, rules and human rights, etc., which means that the people, the women who have been born and raised here, end up in the shelters, then I get mad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130522	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130526	Where I get mad, I would say to Mrs Pernille Vermund that when New Citizens' solidarity with these women does not go any further than not to get their own residence permit, the children they give birth here in Denmark must not have Danish citizenship. Then you are just helping to maintain the patriarchal structure, and I cannot understand why New Citizens and Mrs Pernille Vermund are interested in that. I think it's so good that we can have so many nice words in here about how we help these women and stop negative social control, but as soon as it comes to giving them some rights, you get off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130554	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130607	Thank you. Well, it's nice to hear that Enhedslisten is in favour of the rule of law. I'll put myself behind my ear and really think about it a lot. Then Mrs. Rosa Lund can take it as she pleases. However, I would like to say something about all the care for Muslim women who come under massive pressure, social control and so on. I just think it's been many, many years. I recognise that it has now been put on the agenda, certainly from Mrs Rosa Lund's side, by the SF rapporteur, also by the radical rapporteur and so on, so that the debate on equality should also include Muslim women to a large extent. But it hasn't. I mean, we've had countless debates where it hasn't been up to us at all. Yes, on the part of the Danish People's Party, but by the way, not on the part of others. There have been countless women's communities of different sizes who have not really bothered to deal with it. They may be doing it now, but they haven't bothered to do it. It's only when the fires start to burn that you try to turn them off. Well, they should never have arisen. And what is happening in the women's crisis centres is that it is now difficult for Danish women, who may also have enormous problems with such violent spouses, to get their seats back again, because there is so much social control and massive repression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130717	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130720	I very much agree that violence in close relationships also exists in Danish homes, unfortunately. After all, it is both violence against women and violence against children. It is not such a particular Muslim or Middle Eastern thing to oppress women or beat their children, unfortunately. That is why I think it is very serious and I think it suggests that we have some other fundamental problems that we need to solve in Denmark. That is why I am also pleased that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party ended up supporting a consent law which means that we all now have the right to our own body. I think that is going to make a big difference, but let us at last look at how to stop partner violence across a broad spectrum, because it is not just something that affects a particular group of women. Unfortunately, many different kinds of women suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130806	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130807	However, will Mrs Rosa Lund not recognise that the problem has grown together with Muslim immigration, to the very highest degree? And I asked the previous rapporteur what immigration has brought to Denmark of positive things. There we have one of the enormously negative things, and I can point out fifty extra, but now this is exactly what we are discussing. I mean, that's just the way it is, and that's what I think is so unhappy, and that's why we have the debate today that I can see going on just like last year I should have actually been sitting in the chair. Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind, who just jumped up. But this debate is important. It's just one of the several negative things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130851	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130854	Well, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard may remember, I actually also mentioned negative social control in my speech last year in this debate, because it is something that is very dear to us in the Enhedslisten. And as I answered Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, in fact, this is something we have been trying to put on the agenda for very, very many years, and I believe that one of the reasons why we have finally managed to get it high on the agenda is that there has finally been a place in the public debate for the women that it is actually about. I think that is extremely positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130921	Thank you for that, and the next person I would like to give the floor is Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130926	Thank you. The rapporteur said in his speech that there is a suspicion of foreigners. If we assume that this is the case, can the rapporteur not understand why this is so? If you look at the figures in crime statistics; if you look at what is going on around our streets of Islamist actions, can the rapporteur not understand why there is a suspicion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130955	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122130959	At any rate, I understand that the suspicion exists when one keeps on in here at Christiansborg and in the public debate to cut all Muslims over a comb. Then I understand that that suspicion exists, and that is what makes me so worried. For I believe that all the good Muslim citizens who stand up every day go to work, pay their taxes, contribute to Danish society, also feel suspicious of that debate, and I find that very problematic. As I said, I believe this helps to push our Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131024	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131035	Then it almost sounds as if the problems that are around the streets and roads and in the statistics are something we have come up with in this Parliament, that is that we are responsible for it. Isn't it ordinary people out there who can't understand what's going on over their heads and who get insecure when they go with their kids through town and when they come to S-train stations a little late in the evening? I understand that suspicion. I think that is essential. It is certainly not from in here that it has arisen, but out among people if it exists. And it is in all the European countries that it is not just in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131108	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131111	I am quite convinced that the way in which, among other things, we are dealing. The Danish People's Party over the last 20 years has talked about people with a different skin color, has a major impact on that suspicion. Having said that, I would like to admit that there are statistics that show that there are problems and that is why I also started my speech by saying that I think it is important that we talk about both. I actually used most of my speech to talk about problems with negative social control. So I do not think it can be said that we do not recognise statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131140	Thank you. And the next person to make a brief comment is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131150	I'm gonna follow up on sir. Søren Espersen's quite excellent question. For Enhedslisten says that what pushes the Danish values is when you cut everyone over one comb from here. In other words, does Enhedslisten seriously believe that the problems we face with negative social control, with gang crime, with domination violence, with insecurity-building behaviour by large groups of young immigrant boys, are due to the rhetoric of the Danish Parliament? Excuse me for asking, but is that really what Enhedslisten means?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131221	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131224	I think, sir. Morten Dahlin, that words matter, and that's why I think the rhetoric has an impact on that I'm not one of those who says that that's all. Because what's the problem, sir? Morten Dahlin, is that it has led to concrete legislation which has led to some people being excluded from society. And now I know that sir... Morten Dahlin is a naturalist, and I therefore have such an urge to inform you that two thirds of the people in the Danish gang register are Danish citizens. In other words, our gang problems are not alien problems; they are crime problems. And I think we would be able to solve those problems if Mr. Morten Dahlin and the Left would recognise that it is not an alien issue, but that it is a crime issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131302	Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131305	But then I can tell Mrs Rosa Lund that if one third of the people in the gang register are foreigners, then it is quite a violent over-representation, compared to how much foreigners occupy in general in society. And that's why it's also But I'm hearing that Enhedslisten acknowledges that it's not the rhetoric of the Danish Parliament that's the whole reason for not the whole cause. But I would really like to ask Enhedslisten: Whose responsibility is it that integration works in society? Is it the individual foreigner who comes to Denmark, or is it Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131339	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131343	Oh, yes, but opposite, sir. Morten Dahlin, I believe that it is a common I believe that the individual has a huge responsibility to acquire the language and to learn how we are together in our country. But I believe that as a state we have a huge responsibility to ensure that the framework for this is there for good Danish education; that we should not be put on such poorer services that we cannot buy medicines for our children and therefore have no profit; that we should receive help if we are mentally ill. So I mean, contrary to Mr. Morten Dahlin said it goes both ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131416	The last person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131423	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Does Mrs Rosa Lund recognise that the problems we have in these parallel societies in Denmark with rabid imams and parents who send their children on re-educational trips to Somalia and tell their daughters that they must not stay for Danish, are founded in the religion of Islam, and that the best thing we can do is to safeguard and develop the Christian values on which Danish society is now founded?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131451	I am with you so far that there are Islamic parallel societies, and that is problematic. I do not agree that the solution to this is to spread Christian values. I believe that the solution to this is to tell people that they have rights... that Denmark is a country where you have rights. I understand, sir. Marcus Knuth and his party then have deprived some particular people of certain rights, and I think that is part of the problem. But I do not believe that the solution to this is to spread Christian values, but now I also belong to a party which is in favour of the separation of Church and State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131526	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131530	Thank you, President. But does the rapporteur not recognise that Denmark is a Christian country, that is, when you go back to the constitution? We have been doing so for centuries, and our thinking, our culture and our view of freedom are based on Christian thinking, so, in my view, Christian values cannot be completely ignored in integrating people into our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131551	It is quite true that Christian values or Christian beliefs are what have been most prevalent in Denmark. I am also baptized and confirmed, and I am a member of the church; I think it is important to pay for the Danish cultural heritage. That's how far we agree. But I would also like to say that I do not think it is the solution to any problem whatsoever to spread Christian values anymore. I think the solution is more that we separate church and state, so that we no longer have a state religion in this country, but that we put religious freedom higher than that in Denmark, which is also an important value, we really have to believe and think exactly what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131624	Then I would like to thank Mrs Lund. There are no more brief comments. I'm just gonna have to get a drink. It's really good. The next to be welcomed is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122131649	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund for just puffing off. I can see that some have gone to lunch, but the good thing about technology is that I know that everyone is stuck to the screen in a room behind to hear my rapporteur's speech. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for this annual debate. Pia Kjærsgaard is so fervently right when she says that Denmark is a changing country. It is in both the positive and the negative way because, as we Conservatives say in our adoption text, which we have put forward together with the Left and Liberal Alliance, most people would think that the foreigners who have come to Denmark over the last century are some who have come to contribute to Danish society, whether they have come here to marry a Dane, to work or at least just become part of our society. The common denominator is that most people have embraced Denmark. They have become Danish and some over a generation, and that's really, really good. I come from Lolland myself, and Lolland actually thinks I'm a fine example of that. For many years we have had large groups from Poland who have come to Lolland to work, primarily to work in agriculture. I don't know if there are still phone books for Lolland, but I can at least remember from my school days that if you looked up the phone book for Lolland, there were a lot of people with Polish surnames, but they were just as Danish as the rest of us. Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard asked before Mr. Karsten Hønge, whether immigration has contributed anything positive. I think we may have a different view of what the word immigration means. I see it from a bigger perspective. I myself attended a Catholic school in Maribo, and perhaps that is why I am pleased with the Christian values that Mrs Lund and I talked about before. But at least I think that is something that is positive that has been contributed. We have also had a great influx from Sweden, and right now we see a lot of people with British citizenship looking towards Denmark. Maybe it's also as a result of brexite. That's a good thing. Then we have the reverse of the medal, and perhaps that is more what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard means by her question to Mr Kjærsgaard. Karsten Hønge, the many who have come here from most Muslim countries through the asylum system over the last few decades, perhaps with 1983 as the start-up. And I could use all my speaking time to describe all the terrible examples that are out of parallel societies, but a lot of people have already reported on this today, so I will leave that part of the speech short, because unfortunately we are aware of the challenges. As Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said in her own speech, crime in certain parts of society has become everyday; protection money has in some places become everyday; the sausage cart in Brønshøj has almost on the hundredth anniversary of the Danish hotdog had to close because of harassment from immigrant boys; there is humiliation violence, where immigrant boys film their violence against other young people; and then we have the whole social control of among others. young Muslim girls. In addition, what I think is behind it is the growing Islamism and, to put it bluntly, it was something that I also asked Mrs Lund whether it is the shadow pages of Islam that are the foundation of the whole problem of these parallel societies. This is where I think we should take action. So I would actually like to take this opportunity to thank the Social Democratic Party. I can now see that at least the Social Democratic rapporteur is here for the many individual cases where we Conservatives have been able to cooperate with the government on sensible measures. That is, for example, the case. the ban on donations from extremist societies, better rules for repatriation, the translation of sermons in Arabic, etc. etc. Because, as the Prime Minister says, the policy of foreigners in the past is a mistake. What I do not understand when it comes to government and social democracy is why, time and again, big words are used to the Danes without being able to translate the big words into action. Social democracy was elected at a reception centre outside the EU. I do not think we have heard so much about this in the real world, except that there is talk of any legal work. Yesterday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said that the target is zero asylum seekers. That's fine. However, when I ask both the rapporteur and the Prime Minister about this, there are no concrete steps on the way. You just talk about this reception center, which is still just an idea. Just now, the Prime Minister himself raised the issue of loudspeaker-enhanced Arab prayer calls from Danish mosques, but all the blue parties have tabled a motion for a resolution to ban it. Neither will the government. Then we can take something as simple as citizenship. We Conservatives have been fighting for a year for foreigners with a prison sentence to never be able to obtain Danish passports, and for a whole year the Social Democrats and the Left have said no. Just before Christmas, the government changed its attitude, and I would like to sign for that, and we are pleased about that. Now there is a ban on it. But frankly, in my view, it emphasizes that when the government talks over and over again about these huge asylum restrictions, it's just when it comes to getting a tiny part in place very uphill. So I would like to conclude by calling on the government to actually come up with realistic measures that are up to the things that, among other things, are going to happen. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration says. We Conservatives would very much like to work together on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132203	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132208	First of all, I would like to thank you for your speech and for many, I think, good reflections and endorsements for the cooperation, etc. Now I am actually supposed to be able to put some questions to the rapporteur, even though Mr. Marcus Knuth again asks a lot of questions about Social Democracy. Fortunately, however, many of the questions have been raised earlier in the day, so that interested parties can rewind the debate a little and see the answers from the past; otherwise Mr. Marcus Knuth asked some of the questions again later. But what I really wanted to ask, sir. Marcus Knuth to whom I find interesting, and which I think many parties are interested in here in the Danish Parliament, is a little in line with what we have also mentioned in the past, namely this issue of conventions. Like what we did with the Copenhagen Declaration?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132308	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132310	I think that conventions are often used as a beating, in other words by saying that it is the fault of conventions. I do not agree with that. Yes, there are challenges with the conventions, but if there was something we learned from our reign, it was precisely how many handles we have to turn on within the national measures. Now I used the example of citizenship before. After all, we could tighten up 100 times more and still remain within the conventions. But getting the Left and the Social Democrats to do something as simple as saying that criminal foreigners with a prison sentence should not be able to get Danish passports took a whole year; it was a huge, huge job. So I still do not believe that it is at least not in the case of the low-hanging fruits that set the limit for Denmark in the right direction. Having said that, I am well aware that they set the limits in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132402	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132404	I think that sounds like a sensible assessment. I also believe that where we see a restriction in the conventions, the way they are used is often in the way they are used, i.e. sometimes they are used in a different way than what we have to assume has been the case, that is, what they were made for at the time. For example: The European Convention on Human Rights, in terms of words, is not very extensive, but much is interpreted on it. On the other hand, I do not entirely agree that we do not have a willingness to go to the border in the absence of a better expression. Well, I actually think we're gathering a lot of the low-hanging fruits, but if Mr. Marcus Knuth has some bids for low-hanging fruits, so please bring them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132443	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132445	Well, two very low-hanging fruits would be to rewind the two actions of the Social Democratic Party, which I see as some of the greatest relaxations, namely higher benefits for refugees who do not work, and the fact that it is easier to stay in Denmark if you have a job, despite the fact that there is peace in your home country to which you actually had to return. These are two brilliant examples of action that we could change with a snap tomorrow, if only there was a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132506	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132512	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth for the speech. I think, sir. Marcus Knuth brings up a number of things that are of great concern to me too, but which I think are neither foreign, integration nor value policy. That is, for example, the case. the question of this terrible humiliation violence that is taking place. How we stop it, I think is a matter of legal policy. But Mr. Marcus Knuth is alien politics, or how am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132541	I can at least say from the media that, in the examples I have seen in the media, it is often young boys with an immigrant background. It's part of a culture that's new in Denmark, i.e. a culture of violence that we haven't seen before, and that often comes from these parallel societies. So is it value policy, legal policy or foreign policy? I'd say it's a bit of everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132604	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132606	I think it is just a matter of how we resolve it, because it is unfortunate that violence also existed in Denmark before immigration came to Denmark unfortunately. But that's why I don't think you can attribute it all. That's one thing. The other thing is that in the stories I've seen about it, it's also been young boys with other ethnic backgrounds, but we just don't know if they were born in this country. So there is also a question that lies there, I think. But I really think the big question is: what do we do about it? What do we do about it, sir? Marcus Knuth? What's the good answer from Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132641	I think it does not matter whether you were born in the country or not if it is young people with an immigrant background. It is not the case that if you are born in Denmark, you cannot grow up in a parallel society where you have a completely twisted view of things. But it is the parallel societies that we must overcome. We would like to see us restarting the paradigm shift by sending home the many refugees who have come here, rather than establishing themselves, as has been the case throughout history. We would also like to see tightening up, as I said earlier, in the area of asylum, so that fewer people come here and then a massive integration effort, among other things. to safeguard the Danish values, which are also Christian values.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132716	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. Then we'll just have time to drink off. The next to be welcomed is the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122132735	Today we are debating the challenges arising from immigration, which pressure the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour. But the problems and the problem does not come from immigration as such; the problem is Islam and decades of failed asylum and family reunification policy in relation to people from Muslim countries. Foreigners from both Western and East Asian countries come here in a reasonable number. They contribute financially to our society, generally comply with our laws and greatly embrace our values. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said in relation to migration from Muslim countries, from the Middle East. Although there are good people in between, the policy of asylum and family reunification of recent decades has been a failure, both for Denmark and for the many newcomers who are clearly disillusioned among us. Too many people live on the brink of society and consume solidarity without contributing to the community. We know that with almost 40 years of painful experience in the luggage. It is the Islamic culture and way of life that are incompatible with the Danish, and it is the political part of Islam that is in opposition to our democracy and freedoms. In Denmark, our national community of values is founded on freedom, equality, democracy and the rule of law. We are a formed people with a fundamental respect for each other, our history, our Christian foundation, our royal house and our common authorities; a people who can talk about things and live in peace side by side in freedom and freeness of mind regardless of gender, origin, faith, sexuality and social conditions. But it is not certain that this will always be the case, because Danish values such as freedom of expression, freedom of religion, equality and our right to gather us together are under pressure. The more influence Islam gets in our society, the more weakening our freedom, the values that make us Danish and the power that holds us together. Unfortunately, that is what we see in these years. For decades politicians have allowed Islam to become increasingly influential. The Danes pay the price sadly: everyday terrorism in the form of humiliation violence and domination behaviour by Muslim immigrants; children who have to leave the local school because multiculturalism is taking hold; police, rescuers and home helpers who meet with violence and vandalism in certain residential areas • 33 billion. kr. is the annual bill for the Danish taxpayers. In New Citizens we see a great need to safeguard the culture and values that give us the freedom to determine how we will shape our lives. In the long term, cultural and value policy means everything. It is our special Danish values that have made our society prosperous. That is why we need to solve the problems of immigration policy from the bottom up. There must be an end to patching up solutions that are only made because politicians do not have the courage and the will to grasp the root of the nettle. Islam must have no influence in society. We must not bend over to Islamic special requirements, and we must accept an increasingly ruthless existence for ourselves and the Danish families. Denmark must be a free and secure country to live in. Firstly, we must put an end to nearly 40 years of failed asylum and immigration policy. A stop must be put to spontaneous asylum in Denmark and a new asylum system must be introduced. Criminal foreigners must go out, and we must, of course, demand self-support for all foreigners. Secondly, we must ensure that Islam has no influence in our society, either through the front door or through the back door. We should not allow public treatment of Muslims, either in swimming pools, day-care centres, educational establishments or elsewhere in the public space. No gender-separated swimming lessons, halal food, prayer rooms or other special treatment. We should not allow girls to wear the Muslim scarf when they go to school. What they do in their spare time, they have to do. Nor should we allow women in public positions to be covered. Muslim scarves can be worn at leisure; not at work in the public sector. What private companies do and allow, they have to do themselves. We can choose them from us as consumers if we do not like it, and many of us do not. We should not grant subsidies to Muslim colleges and schools. Islam suppresses the democratic values on which Danish society is founded, and therefore Muslim schools should not have public support. And we must remove the recognition and thus the special privileges of the Islamic religions that maintain women in forced marriages and preach hatred against Danish society, Jews and homosexuals. Finally, we must fight for our freedom of expression, abolish the racism clause and take a hard stand against imams calling for violence against women, homosexuals and other believers. I hope this is something on which we can find common ground some other day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122133259	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. The next thing we should welcome when we have just been drunk is the rapporteur, Mr L.A. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122133326	A country is a product of the traditions and institutions that are in the country, but it is even more a product of the population that is in the country. There may be completely identical conditions in two different countries in a number of areas, but if one population in one country is in one way and the other population in the other country is in quite a different way, it becomes two very different countries. Denmark is a product of the population that has been in Denmark for centuries and of course also millennia. If you imagined that the doors to Denmark were wide open and there would be a lot of people coming in with quite a different background and some quite different opinions, Denmark would also change over time because the population would change. This was what was seen back in the 1980s and 1990s when, through asylum and family reunification, more and more people from Muslim countries came to Denmark. One looked at the risk that in a relatively few decades Denmark would become a quite different country, because the population would become quite different. There were then fortunately far-sighted politicians who, back in, yes, both the 1980s and the 1990s, but increasingly also in the 00s, got the policy implemented in this area that tightened up this influx of people from mainly Muslim countries, so that one could put an end to the development that Denmark would become a completely different country because the population would become quite different. So today we are pursuing a strict immigration policy which makes it difficult to get here and get asylum and also family reunification, because the two ways of getting to Denmark are linked to a number of issues. When you come here, like, for example... From day to day, you have a right, no matter how little effort you make to be part of Danish society, to be supported by the public at a fairly generous level in an international context. You can also get a number of free services, etc., and it seems like a magnet for people who would like to have better conditions in life, of course, but who do not use this desire to get better conditions in life to go to Australia or the United States or Canada, where you can also have a better life, but instead prefer to go to Welfare Denmark, where social democracy ensures that you can get better without having to make an effort. Then you have settled in Denmark in parallel societies, where you divide up and floor with other people who are like you, and where children grow up in the belief that coming from another country to Denmark without doing anything to support yourself is a perfectly normal way of life, and that you can live there in a way where you are in conflict with the surrounding society, among other things. because your young people and your children are running around after the sun has set, creating unrest and insecurity in the surrounding society. You can do that and still have a life that is much better than the life you had in the country you came from, even if you do nothing to become part of Danish society and to support yourself. This is a huge problem in Denmark. Fortunately, something has been set up that is similar to a prop, even though people are still coming away, but it is still a plug in relation to the very free approach to Denmark, which was previously in the immigration to Denmark, and it is well enough under these conditions, but it is still the case that the people who came to Denmark during the years when there was virtually free access are not encouraged by Danish society to make an effort to become part of the Danish society. There we must have a fight with a social democracy, which the Prime Minister also stands for, and which the social workers, who are the case workers for these people, stand for. When they say they can't get a job, or when they show up with their husband, and he says she can't work, there is therefore a left-wing ideologist in front of them as a case worker who says that it's also a sin and that we shouldn't enforce the rules of availability that exist in Danish society. And we have a government that does nothing about the case workers refusing to enforce the rules of availability to those who do not want to work in Denmark. For years and days, social democracy has just said that the rules of availability exist. So it doesn't have to pay to work in Denmark at all. But they do not exist and nothing is done in the government to ensure that they are found. So we have problems, the Liberal Alliance recognises them, and we have to deal with those problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122133841	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Will Mr. Ole Birk Olesen just booze off? That's good. The next to be welcomed is Sikandar Siddique, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122133904	Thank you for the floor. Although the world is in the middle of a pandemic, it can therefore be said that immigration and asylum applications at present. has stopped, is still something as usual. The Danish People's Party is preoccupied with immigration. A lot of people lose their jobs. The population is suffering more and more from not being seen socially. We have plenty of challenges in Denmark at present. It's not that it's not being tested. In the world, too, several researchers point to that we are at the moment. works with a 3-4 degree temperature rise scenario in relation to the Climate Act. Yes, the United States barely made it out of a coup d'état. China has interned one million Muslims in labor camps and oppresses with violence and power the democracy movement in Hong Kong. Kashmir is still bleeding. In short, there are many major problems that we could focus on. Instead, it will be a question where the Prime Minister will have to answer a query debate from the Danish People's Party, which for me might have been postponed at a time of corona. Like all parties, we have postponed a lot of motions for resolutions. I do not believe that immigration is a threat to our societies. For if there is something that threatens the well-being of the Danes, then it must be the last 20 years of bourgeois and with the Danish People's Party's voting regime that has undermined the welfare state, has taken climate and environment for granted and introduced discriminatory legislation, and there are several examples of this. It simply requires nothing more than that we should raise our eyes a little and see that what threatens the Danes is something quite different from what the Danish People's Party feels threatened by here or wants to talk about here. As I also said to the Socialists earlier today, I will try to nuance the debate because I think the debate is going to be very one-track. I would like to talk about what is missing in the debate, what we need to resolve and what the government lacks focus on. This is the discrimination and in some cases pure racism experienced by many minority dancers. These are the women with the scarf who are attacked on the street. These are the people who surpass everyone in the studio and who have to send more applications than all the others because they have Muslim backgrounds, for example. These are the boys who have to grow up with a reputation like some bad immigrant boys and the consequences it may have. It is the young people who are exposed to racial profiling. It is the group of people who are basically perceived as criminals on the basis of their religion. These are the people I think we should also talk about and be lacking in the debate. Thank you very much for the floor. Then I have a text for adoption which I would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that immigration is a benefit to society. It is also a necessity if we are to maintain our welfare societies. Furthermore, the Folketing wants to initiate actions that aim to combat discrimination and racism and ensure that our minorities are protected. V 58).
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134240	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique, and I will have the text of adoption. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134257	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. We Conservatives believe that criminal foreigners with a prison sentence should never be able to obtain Danish passports. I understand, sir. Sikandar Siddique, that Free Greens believe that all foreigners who have just been in Denmark for 7 years should have the Danish passport. Can the rapporteur give me a single reason why people with drug convictions, violent convictions, etc. etc. Should the Danish passport be given as a gift?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134322	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134324	Thank you for the question. Free Greens are convinced that the Danish passport is a privilege to obtain, but the Danish passport must be given as a declaration of trust and should not be something where we measure people in relation to it until we give it to them. We believe that if we are to do away with the polarisation that is in society, it is about getting people into society. I can tell from my own upbringing and childhood that what worked was that you were allowed, that is, that you kept getting the helping hand into society. We therefore believe that the Danish passport should be used in such a way. That is not to say that every criminal must have a Danish passport. We can easily talk about there having to be a waiting period, but we also believe that once you've endured your punishment, hopefully you're resocialized, and then you don't have to be seen as a criminal. And we don't believe that a punishment should apply forever, that is, that it should follow you for the rest of your life, if you've committed any crime when you were young. We do not believe that this is a matter for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134424	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134426	Well, I just wanted to say that we Conservatives couldn't disagree more. In other words, we believe that if you are a criminal foreigner, you should not be rewarded with a Danish passport. According to Free Greens, is there an upper bar for how hard crime can be committed and still get away from the Danish passport? Now I am not talking about waiting periods, but about never getting the Danish passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134445	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134447	According to international regulations, there are rules which make it possible to exclude harmful activities, and we are also completely open to that. I think I would just like to challenge the premise in the question. I certainly do not agree with that. The rapporteur talks about foreigners, but I am talking about boys and girls, men and women who are born and raised in Denmark and who we in the Free Greens do not regard as foreigners. When you are born and raised in Denmark, you must, of course, have a Danish passport at birth. And when you have lived here for a few years, you must of course be able to seek Danish citizenship at the age of 50, even if you have committed crime as a young person.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134526	This triggered a few brief remarks, first from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134533	Thank you. Is it true that the Free Greens want to make a Danish passport and citizenship a right, in other words, contrary to what it is today, that is to say, something that is being applied for and granted by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134545	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134547	Free Greens want it to be an administrative decision and not a political decision that is determined by a mood in the Folketing. Free Greens want to be able to apply for citizenship and citizenship after 7 years of legal residence in Denmark by simple signature. Free Greens are completely open to talking about completely objective
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134627	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134629	That's crazy. I have to say that it is not so often that I get muzzled, but that is simply crazy. I do not know what to say, and I do not know what to say. I mean, I never hope that the Greens will get power as they have been, and certainly not in this area. Does one have no respect for the fact that Denmark is a community of values, a country based on fundamental values, which would obviously erode considerably if one could come here and obtain citizenship as a right after 7 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134704	Thank you. I do not know whether to rebuke it when it is said crazy, but it is not a word I want to use myself. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134714	If it is rebuked to use the word crazy, I will not repeat that word, but just say that I think it is just as frightening when New Citizens go out and say that if you are from a Muslim country, you should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship. Try to think that generations before us have fought a brave battle to introduce, for example. the protection of minorities, the principle of equality in the constitution, the rights of minorities. There is a reason why they have done so. That New Citizens then go out and say today that you do not want people from Muslim countries to be able to have Danish citizenship, I think is frightening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134754	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134758	I have deep respect for the fact that we can disagree in this Chamber. What I always find interesting in discussions when you disagree is to see if we actually have the same basic stand, where mine is that I am a politician in Denmark who has been elected by the Danish people to take care of the interests of the Danish people. There I have some doubts as to whether Sikandar Siddique shares the same view, i.e. that Sikandar Siddique has been chosen by the Danish people to take care of the interests of the Danish people, including taking care of and protecting them. When there are people who come to Denmark and commit serious crime and do not want the Danish society and Danes anything good, Sikandar Siddique has the same obligation as the rest of us to protect our country from such people. I just need to ask: are we here in the same court or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134858	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122134859	I would say that I am not on the same track as the Danish People's Party. I would like to say this loud and clear from this point of view. The Danish People's Party is among others. one of the reasons why the Free Greens have arisen. Free Greens want a strong, diverse Denmark, based on the rule of law, which previous generations have fought hard for and spent many, many years building up, which means that we do not discriminate on the basis of religion, that we do not discriminate on the basis of skin colour, etc. So I would ask, in relation to being a criminal: is it really the position of the Danish People's Party that if you have committed crime at the age of 18, then you cannot be resocialised and become a great citizen at the age of 50? Is a punishment gonna follow for the rest of your life? In my view, that is not the rule of law: and there it is just that we in the Free Greens say: of course, at the age of 17, at the age of 18, you could have made a mistake and then later in your life could be part of democracy and participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135005	Thank you. Is there another brief comment? It's there, and you have to remember to get in. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135011	Okay, thanks for that. Okay, then I can confirm that we do not have the same interest in defending the interest of the Danish people here and protecting the Danish people from what can come. In the Danish People's Party we take the view that we do not believe that you can have a bad day when you are 18, when you go out and kill you, and that you can be a good person later. No, if you go out and commit such a serious crime, you have burned your bridges to Denmark, and then you have to be thrown out after serving.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135043	Thank you. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135046	Well, we just look at it differently, and it can be said that Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker is now using the example of murder. What if you stole a moped at 17? What's up? What if, at the age of 18, you did a shoplifting? Shouldn't you be able to join society at the age of 50? I think that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135109	That's it? Because there was a little time left. But it was fine. Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135114	That's funny. Because I feel about getting very involved and something like that, but actually I sit and take it so quite, quite calmly now, because I feel so much confidence in the Danish people that Mr. Sikandar Siddique can stand and say that enough is enough we have heard before and that one was actually formed because the Danish People's Party was there. Then I can just say, well, I think it's gonna be okay anyway. I have a lot of confidence in the Danish people and they will vote for Mr. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups, in the next parliamentary elections, so peace be with it, but I don't think so. So I actually feel quite calm, no matter what monstrous claims and strange things Mr. Sikandar Siddique stands and says from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135158	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135201	So I would say that right now it does not look too good for the Danish People's Party either, so let us now see who the people will vote for next time. I would just like to say that I am actually expected by a Member such as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, who has been sitting in the Folketing for so many years, that instead of having this approach, such a rather bitter approach to the debate, one can understand that one can have a discussion where one has some different opinions. I remember the debates where it was Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard who was the marginalised in this Chamber. So I expected a little more understanding of that situation, at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135239	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135240	Well, actually, that's what I said. I said that I am quite calm, that is to say completely calm, and that is actually a little weird, because Mr. Sikandar Siddique says so many strange things that may bring some up in the red field, but not me, not on this basis. So it doesn't, and peace be with it, and good luck, good luck with the future, I can only say, and let's see what it's going to look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135300	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135302	I would say that I do not quite feel that way about Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has said some very, very strange things, many from the Danish People's Party have said that for many years, and I cannot, of course, take that seriously. For it is an attack on the rule of law, it is harsh statements that are being voiced by our minority citizens, who are targeting certain groups, and the Greens will say so at any time. It is important for me to stress here that when you come up here on this platform, you have to recognise that there are a lot of citizens out there who have these opinions and thoughts, and that view must also be included in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135341	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Then he'll be allowed to drink off, and then we'll welcome the Prime Minister again. Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135414	Thank you all for a good debate today. There are three points of impact on my part. First of all, I am extremely pleased that a very, very broad majority in this Parliament is behind a strict immigration policy and we now have the widest possible majority. In any case, we have never been so many mandates in the Danish Parliament that have been behind a strict immigration policy. I think there is cause for rejoicing. I also think that today's discussion has both underlined and once again shown that integration and the importance of protecting Denmark and Danish values cannot be discussed without at the same time considering how many people come from outside. That is the one thing I would like to say. The second point I would like to make is not surprising. I think that the Socialist rapporteur had many good points. I would like to highlight one that I think should give food for thought, namely that if one now imagined that, for example, I, or it could certainly also be one of the others, moved from Denmark at some point to a country with a completely different culture and some completely different traditions, I would not have any intention of doing so; I do not know if anyone else has, but that is a thought example. Would I then put my Danish values away from me, my view of equality, my support for democracy, freedom and the rule of law, my liberal liberal liberalism in terms of homosexuality and the rights of other minorities? No, I wouldn't, because they're fixed, they're a fully integrated part of my own identity. So moving me to another place wouldn't mean putting those values behind me. What both the rapporteur and I are saying here may sound incredibly trivial, but it has been overlooked for many years of integration debate. It is not enough to get a job, to learn the language, to take an education if you continue to feel abhorrence of homosexuality; if you do not really think that equality between men and women is good; if you think that the Qur'an is above democracy, or anything else. It's not enough. What can look right on paper in terms of integration is not enough if you do not carry Denmark in your heart, if you do not carry the Danish values in your heart, not just by name, but in all your words and actions can settle in and anchor yourself in it. That will always be the challenge of integration. That is why immigration has resulted and will always have enormously serious consequences for a society that is as value-based as the Danish one and where we are so extremely dependent on each other because, for example, we have a tax-financed welfare society. So no matter how you turn it around, the most important thing in foreign policy over the next many years is to keep track of the fact that there are not many people here, because the integration task is already as serious as it is. Having said all that, it is of course also important what many of you have stressed today, namely that there are plenty in Denmark with foreign backgrounds that are making an effort. And if we take the corona crisis as an example, there are, no matter where I look into our health care, a lot of people with immigrant backgrounds in the first, second or third term standing and grafting when we are tested; who analyze the test when it is analysed; who right now mix our vaccines; give the vaccine; take care of our elderly out at the care centers or take care of our hospitalised. And I could go on. So as always we need nuances when discussing foreigners, but most importantly we need to stand firm on our Danish values and not give way to an inch. In this context, I will just have to highlight one speech. I have not had the opportunity to hear Mr. Morten Dahlin gave a whole speech before. I think that was a sublime, excellent political speech today, with which I agree. And I think it is an extremely important point from the rapporteur that integration is not about two people meeting each other and making it work. Integration when you come to Denmark from outside requires that the person who comes here does his or her best and takes responsibility for being integrated. Then there must be a society that creates opportunities for this, but it must be an integration process driven by the human being who has come to Denmark for one reason or another. That point I hope can be left behind from today's debate. And if that is the way of thinking that will characterize the Left in the future, then the Left has my full support in the field of foreigners. Those were my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135907	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are a number of brief comments. The first to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, UFG. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122135917	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister recognised and praised the many who are doing very well. That was very liberating, really, really good to hear. As I have tried to point out again and again in today's debate, we have focused on immigration in relation to the challenges of immigration. But there is also the other side of the debate, and my hope is that one does not exclude the other and that we must be able to work on both challenges, as it were. In this context, I have mentioned the need to send more applications as a minority woman, I have mentioned verbal and physical attacks that we see and that the number of hate crimes is increasing. I want to hear from the Prime Minister whether, in this parliamentary year, the government will focus on it and have some action on the way, some bill on the way, which also, what can be said, takes care of that part of an alien debate and protects minorities, because we see an increasing number of attacks, verbal as well as physical.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140023	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140024	I believe that we must basically distance ourselves from racism, no matter how it appears or how it is exercised. In my view, racism is just as bad in words as it is in deeds. In my view, it does not have its place in a society whose main task is to create the cohesion that enables us to live together and also develop together. I think it is true that racism is taking place, and I am also hearing it in different ways and in different contexts, both racism against ethnic minorities, but also against indigenous Danes, for example, in vulnerable residential areas or in some youth cultures and environments. So I do not think we need special efforts to combat racism. I think that there is reason to distance ourselves from racism and, of course, to support that effort in our legislation, but most importantly, to promote a culture and form of conversation in Denmark where racism does not take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140126	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140128	After all, the Free Greens want a national action plan or strategy, because it has been documented that there is a group here that is particularly exposed to hate crimes and particularly exposed to racism and discrimination. Yesterday or the day before, you could read on the Internet that a woman at the Østre plant on Østerbro was spat on and called traitor, and she ended up breaking her arm because she was attacked. These things you just hear more and more about. In this context, the Free Greens want to make a national action plan, and I want to hear from the Prime Minister whether this is something that the Prime Minister wants to initiate in this parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140207	I would like to be quite honest and say that, in principle, action plans are extremely opposed to them. I am so tired of action plans, I am so tired of processes, I am so tired of our political response, when something becomes difficult, being that we have to make an action plan. I know that the Social Democrats have also made action plans and that changing governments have made action plans, but I cannot stand action plans, so no. And it's not about this specific subject; it's just at all. I do not believe that it is action plans that move communities. So, no, I am not going to support an action plan here, and that is not because of the specific content. I am just not sure that Denmark needs any more action plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140240	Thank you. The next thing I would like to make is a brief comment, Mr President. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140246	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the rose. Well, I am extremely concerned about that, so let us at last make it a habit; it is only positive. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the negotiations announced by the government that will come at the back of the Commission's recommendations. Because we have been wide-ranging today, and one of the things we often return to in this debate is labour relations. That is not all, but it is quite an important step, and so I would like to hear how the Prime Minister views the increases in benefits which the Prime Minister has been behind. So, what about the Prime Minister's demands, which I believe will come from blue parties, including the Left, that if you are to enter into such an agreement, those increases should fall away? Is this something that the Prime Minister will be open to, or will the Prime Minister stand firm that the higher level of benefits that has been introduced now is also what will have to remain when the negotiations are over?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140339	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140341	So, in principle, I am not in favour of coming to Denmark and not working and then getting a high performance; I am opposed in principle. I believe that when you come to Denmark, as the rapporteur knows, I think that we should keep down the number coming to Denmark, you should come here with a desire to be able to support yourself and make an effort. Then we know that sometimes life spans for various reasons, and therefore there may be a need for a benefit. We did not vote to increase the benefits, nor did we increase the benefits. We have introduced a temporary allowance for families with children, and it is therefore something other than to increase benefits in general, as the rapporteur makes it seem as if we have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140418	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140420	The Prime Minister says that the Prime Minister is not in favour of coming to Denmark for a high performance. Well, I don't think I'm in favour of getting to Denmark and getting a service at all. I think that the starting point must be to order something. Whatever we call the increase in benefits, whether it is called a temporary allowance or what it is called a temporary allowance, I would like to get an answer to my question: is the Prime Minister so willing to actually put the line under temporarily and say that it is only until an agreement is made where we are then left to spend the same amount as before, so that you do not make the temporary allowance permanent?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140452	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140454	Well, if in this Parliament we are really good together, and we have shown that in other contexts we can be, then we will have an agreement across the political centre that manifests and emphasizes what previous bourgeois governments have been working on, namely a sort of profit principle in relation to benefits. We welcome that from the Socialist side, while at the same time taking care of the children who, for some families, must grow up in Denmark and where we must be careful that economic deprivation does not become too great. That is my hope as a follow-up to the work of the Service Commission and then that we will have rights and duties much, much stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140531	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140536	Thank you, too, from here to the Prime Minister. Sometimes, when we have these debates on a Friday afternoon in the Folketing, we think that no one is listening. But that's where I can tell the PM. I can see from the Ekstra Bladet now that it says: "My goals: Zero asylum seekers for Denmark." I do not know if it is the young gentleman from Ritzau who has written the article, but at least the Prime Minister's words about zero asylum seekers are now out in the Danish media. What I just do not understand is, and it does not say in the article, that social democracy does not have any action here and now; it just needs to reduce the number of asylum seekers. Instead, subsidies for unemployed refugees will be increased and it will be easier to stay in Denmark as a refugee. So can the Prime Minister not understand that we sometimes wonder a little about these headlines, but that when we ask about it, there is nothing concrete behind it? Or is it I who is wrong, so can the Prime Minister come up with a single concrete action here and now which will be taken and which will reduce the number of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140634	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140635	Sir. Marcus Knuth says that we want to raise benefits for unemployed immigrants. That's not correct. Where's Mr. Keating? Marcus Knuth the delusion from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140649	It was short. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140651	But the Minister himself mentioned this before: you want to increase the subsidies for unemployed refugee families. Here, the Prime Minister then focuses on families with children, but the basic premise is that the subsidies have been increased for certain groups of refugees who are outside the labour market. My question remains. You see these headlines, the Social Democracy and the Prime Minister want zero asylum seekers for Denmark, but you can't give a single example of an action here and now. So would the Prime Minister please give us an example of an action that actually supports what is now in the Ekstrabladet and which is called "zero asylum seekers"?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140726	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140728	Firstly, we do not have a desire to increase benefits in general. A temporary contribution to families with children has been introduced. I think we owe it to each other, after all, to tell them how things really are. Secondly, I also think it is important to note that on 11 January 2021 1,500 asylum seekers were registered by 2020. It's an historically low level. That is not the merit of this government; it is primarily due to the situation of covid-19. Thirdly, I would like to stress that we are working hard to create an entirely new refugee system, as Mr. Marcus Knuth is also fully aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140807	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140809	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech by the Prime Minister, with many good nuances as well. I was particularly pleased with the recognition that there was given to the fact that many bilinguals take many vulnerable jobs here during the current corona crisis and make their strong contribution to our getting through it as well as possible. There are also a number of people who start an education, and that is why I particularly attached myself to a post on Instagram from the Social Democratic Party three days ago, where the Prime Minister is depicted with a text in which, among other things, there is a text. • We need to focus as much on training and competences as we do on how many people go to work. ▪ I also heard the Prime Minister in his opening speech calling and inviting more people to take an education. Does the Prime Minister not think that it would be common sense to take an education, internship or apprenticeship on an equal footing with unskilled employment when it comes to permanent residence permits, which are also supported by 3F and other professional organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140911	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140912	It can be said that if one puts it as a discussion of what is most valuable for a society • whether it is to enter the labour market and make an effort there, or whether it is to improve itself, at what level and in what sector it is now one way of looking at it. Another way of looking at it, which is at least part of the equation, is in relation to whether we generally want more people to have permanent residence and whether we want more people to acquire citizenship in Denmark. And that is where the Radical Left and the government stand in two different places. Because we do not want many more people to have permanent residence and citizenship in Denmark, and that is why we are in favour of tough rules in both places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140956	Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122140957	This is about education. It is about some people taking an education instead of taking an unskilled job, for example. Is it not strange that unskilled work should count more in the equation when those who take an education can contribute to Denmark later by taking a job that a company wants or within a welfare area? Could it not be strong for Denmark that more people were allowed to use that training to actually contribute to a company or within a welfare area and thus make Denmark stronger?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141027	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141028	I believe that where the Social Democratic and Radical Left have most often had most discussions in the field of foreigners, the Radical Left often discuss foreigners in an economic context in the short term and the Social Democratic Party very much regards foreign policy as a policy of value. This is why we cannot only look at the fact that some companies or the socio-economic community here and now need some element of labour supply and that it must then influence the policy of foreigners. In my view, it is not necessarily necessary to turn it around, but at least to have an equally sharp look at how many people we can integrate into our society at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141110	Thank you. The almost brief comment is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141112	Thank you. We have focused a little on this issue of asylum freezes, and both the Minister for Integration and the Prime Minister have been out with it in the last few days. And then I just sit and think that in 2019 the Social Democratic President, as it was at that time, went out and said: a complete asylum stop here and now will mean that Denmark will have to resign from international conventions. Of course, I cannot recommend that. What's happened since? Can we begin to touch the issue of the convention, because it is actually very important for the Danish People's Party? We have been saying for quite a number of years that there are too many conventions that limit us. And, according to the Prime Minister, they do so in relation to an asylum freeze. So I'd like to know how we're gonna get on with this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141200	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141201	In other words, I do not believe that it is our long-term objective to set up reception centres outside Europe, that is to say that we have a challenge to the convention. Because it has already been analysed and described that when you as a refugee seek asylum, you do so because you have a need for protection. And there we have an obligation as a country because of international conventions. I should also like to point out in Parantes that we also have an obligation to protect the individual. But there is no mention in the conventions of protecting the refugees in question in the western part of Copenhagen or in a residential area in Aalborg. We could do that outside Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141238	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141239	Then we're back to what's so difficult for the Social Democracy and the government: that about the reception centers. That's where we're left, and then it's not those little square words about asylum freezes that are all about. What this is about is this reception center, which in turn is so difficult to establish. And then we hear it like it's back to basics, back to the starting point, right? Then I'm not quite satisfied anyway, I'll say. I thought, as in so many other areas, we had come a bit along the way, but we just aren't in relation to this. There's no asylum stop, it's not gonna happen. Well, it's something about a reception center that you can't really figure out how to get established.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141314	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141315	Well, there's nothing new in what I'm saying today. The government wants a new asylum system based on the disappearance of the right to spontaneous asylum and subsequent residence, for example in Denmark, and instead, if there is a need for protection, refugees must be looked after in the neighbourhoods; in third countries outside Europe. That is the attitude of the government. Is it easy to make it? No, it is not, so if it was, then I assume that all the changing bourgeois governments supported by the Danish People's Party had established it. But no government has succeeded in doing this. Now we have a government that is really putting a lot of effort into making it realistic at some point, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141352	Thank you. The next to have a brief comment is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141357	Thank you. I have listened several times with great enthusiasm to what was said when the Prime Minister came up with new ideas on how we could tighten immigration. One of the things I particularly attached myself to was what the Prime Minister said in the opening speech that we should now fight gang crime by depriving gang members of their status symbols, their gold chains, their branding, their Audios and whatever it is. Since then, I have not seen much in the press about how it has been implemented, so I need the Prime Minister to help me here. Can the Prime Minister give us some examples of what has been taken of status symbols and what areas we have been out with the green harvester?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141447	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141448	Now, then, there must be legislation, and there must be legal basis before the government can implement its policy, and that legislation is not yet in place, but the political negotiations have been under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141455	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141500	Well, I'm sorry if the corona has put a brake on the immediate implementation of legislation, because this is actually one of the priorities of the Danish People's Party. I could hear the Prime Minister was a little opposed to action plans, and I just hope that the Prime Minister is not against action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141513	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141513-2	No, the PM isn't. And if I understand correctly, there is a broad political majority behind the ideas that we launched on the opening day, namely that it must be possible, for example, in connection with gang crime or any other form of misbehavior, to deprive people of values directly on the street, and I think that is a very, very positive thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141536	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141539	In SF we are very much looking forward to the Commission of the European Communities presenting its report, because there is very good reason to look at the overall system of interaction between the various services. So it will be a great and exciting task for us to discuss it. Until then, however, we are very pleased that we had an agreement with the government on the temporary service with a helping hand to the most needy families. After all, we can hear from the right that many people think that there should be such a complete connection between the fact that if you just piss people's lives and make their children poor, parents end up in a strange way in jobs. Well, I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on this connection, which is being tried. Is there any connection at all between exposing people's lives to immediate access to the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141629	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141630	I do not quite buy the premise that insisting on the right and duty and proportionality is to pollute people's thinking. After all, we have a labour market policy in Denmark which is basically based on people going to work. We cannot maintain the level of prosperity, we cannot maintain the level of welfare that we have in Denmark unless the vast majority of adults over the age of 18 go to work, it simply cannot be done, and there we have the huge problem that we have a very, very high standard of work • most of us in this country. But I also hope that the SF will recognise that too many of those who have come here do not contribute to the Danish labour market. And I am not talking about all those who contribute because there are many who do, and that is very positive, but there are too many, especially women with a non-Western background, and here we are talking not primarily about women from Asia, but mainly about women from the Middle East and North Africa, who do not get up every morning and do a job and thus support themselves. That's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141729	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141729-2	We are in complete agreement. In fact, I do not think there is any difference in the ambition of right and duty, even for people with ethnic minority backgrounds, that is quite obvious. I do not think there is any difference between SF and Social Democracy in relation to that ambition and also in relation to making demands. No. What I was asking was, in fact, just the fascination that the right wing can have of the height of the service: to believe that because you make it poor for people, they get to work. I should just like to ask the Prime Minister to deal with this, namely that poverty should lead to employment, where the experience is far along the way, that poverty leads to apathy, upsetness, and that instead one stumbles on the way into the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141805	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141806	So what I can think is remarkable about at least a number of bourgeois politicians and debaters is the belief that you should give carrots at the top and whip at the bottom of a society, and it is, of course, a deviate that we have heard quite a lot about for quite many years. The way to divide other people, I don't believe. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that the basics are unhealthy, that one can come to Denmark from outside, never have contributed to our society and then immediately gain access to services without having to do anything in return. I think it would be very wise to turn it around, so you have to contribute before you can receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141840	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141845	Like the Prime Minister, I also have a real difficulty with plans for action, because often action does not come out of action plans. Not everyone in my party feels that way. That is why I am also glad that in the police conciliation we managed to make a much stronger effort against hatecrimes. That's not what I wanted to ask. What I wanted to ask the Prime Minister is: Justice and duty? Yes, but I guess we also have a principle of equal pay for equal work. So, in relation to this 37-hour activation of immigrant women, which the government has been talking about for a long time, and which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has also been talking about for a long time, is the principle still valid that there is equal pay for equal work in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141923	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122141924	That depends on what you mean by those words, because I fully share the principle. But if that means that we cannot impose a 37-hour effort while someone from outside, for example, receives some kind of service, then I do not agree. Because we simply have to deal with the problems that exist now. It is basically unhealthy to come to Denmark and not work. And it is a declaration of failure for all of us, including all political parties, that we have women who have been in Denmark for 20, 25, 30 years and are still on transfer income. We risk, of course, that there will never be equality in those families and that the problems will be passed on from one generation to the next. So sometimes you have to look at the target and then discuss the means after that. And if we cannot otherwise ensure that everyone provides for themselves, then I would rather introduce a requirement that we should deliver a 37-hour effort, even if it violates some other principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142021	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142022	Well, we're in complete agreement on the target. It is a good thing to get people into work, and I am also convinced that the vast majority of people want to work. I think we have a problem with these immigrant women that we are talking about. There is a language barrier in which I believe we have a task. So it should somehow be part of the plan that the government is making. Then I think that we also have a problem in relation to the fact that there are some women who are simply being held on because there is a mutual dependency, and I believe that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration have to consider that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142054	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142056	If I am to be skinless honest, I do not buy it with the language barrier, because we have plenty of foreign labour in Denmark who work 37 hours a week without being able to speak Danish. This, by the way, causes some other problems for their Danish colleagues. It is not so much fun to stand in a slaughterhouse and not be able to talk to your colleagues when you finally have a break because they speak a language other than your own. But I do not actually buy it with the language barrier, because there are quite a lot of job functions in Denmark that you can handle yourself with a Spartan Danish, and there is nothing to prevent you from going to work 37 hours and learning Danish in the evening. It doesn't say anywhere that you can't reach both in 24 hours. I'm not buying it. On the other hand, I very much agree with the second point:
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142140	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142142	Thank you. This is an interesting discussion we have. How many do we need, and how do we get those who are here into the labour market? And then, in recent years, the Social Democratic Party will also report on how many we should have. Yes, we're not having any, I understand from the Prime Minister. This is new tones, because in my time we have sent buses around the world and brought people to Denmark, reserved homes for them, and the next day they could get a job if it was possible for them to do so. It caused problems, but it also gave a huge gain for society. They're still gone in the second and third generation, at least in my city. I don't think it's just about trying to be tough. There have always been problems whose cultures meet. At the moment we have some bigger problems than we have had in the past and they need to be solved, but we must remember that everyone is equal before the law and that a human being is a human being wherever it was born. We cannot punish, for example. children. We can't punish anyone for not understanding things. We can help them, and we can inspire them, and we can make the bridge that some people are talking about much, much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142254	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142255	Yeah, it's new tones. These are definitely new tones. It is not new from yesterday to today, but it is new tones, also in relation to where the Social Democracy stood earlier. And yes, we also have our responsibility for a failed immigration policy, and yes, too many people have come here because now there are parallel societies. Now there is radicalisation in Denmark. Now artificial virgins are being made in Denmark. Now there are a lot of politicians who need bodyguards from time to time. Now things are happening around parts of the mosque environment in Denmark that should not happen. And yes, there has been a terrorist attack. So there's shell or this country can't hang together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142341	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142343	Thank you. I would just like to remind you of a discussion we had, at least while I was in the Folketing, about the right and duty. I guess that goes for everyone. This is also true of those who come here, and I think that the labour market is the key point in changing these things, because that is where you really get integrated. That's where you get an understanding of a good society. That is when you come to work, and that is why I would like us to do something more for it. I told you earlier today that, as chairman of SiD and 3F, I have taken out several times with people who have sought 50, 60 and 70 jobs, but because of the name being excluded by the jobs. We must also do something about this, because it is the great process that we need to start, so that the majority is the norm for the minority that is not acting properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142429	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142429-2	I fully agree that any form of discrimination is unacceptable, and I also hear about those cases, both with young people and the elderly, with refugee and immigrant backgrounds in the first, second and third generations, which are quite properly and honestly seeking a job and do not get it because of a name or experience discrimination elsewhere on the basis of skin colour or on the basis of religion, and there is only reason to distance ourselves from that. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142457	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142501	After all, we have all been able to follow this with the fact that during the Prime Minister's term of office of the Social Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party wanted to signal that it is more rigorous in foreign policy, and I can see it in relation to this journey to Denmark. But in relation to the integration problems that are in Denmark, I do not really see it. I believe that this is linked to the reluctance of the Prime Minister and her entire party to face up to the fact that the fact that there is a social democratic cornucopia which distributes free benefits and money for nothing prevents integration in Denmark. When I say this to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister answers: well, there are problems in France too. But France is also a social democratic welfare state; indeed it is. What you have to compare with are countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia, which have such a swim or sink policy where people either swim or they sink. There are fewer integration challenges than we have here in Denmark. So will the Prime Minister not recognise that although she is very fond of social democracy, it poses some challenges in terms of integrating immigrants into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142609	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142610	Will the rapporteur soberly claim that there are no integration problems in the United States? However, this is a violent claim, given how much problems there are in the United States exactly in this area. We just have to admit to each other that this is a difficult task. After all, the rapporteur himself has tried to sit in government, and it was not the case that that government solved the integration problems that were, and this government will not solve all the integration problems that exist. We have taken important steps together in recent years and we are willing to take even more steps. And as I said before, I am glad that the majority behind foreign policy is as broad as it is, but this is going to take a very long time, because the problems have become structural and they have been allowed to develop and grow large over many decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142701	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142702	I am not saying that I am not saying that they are much smaller than they are in Denmark and other social democratic states. One study after another shows this: in those states where there is a high level of transfer income to citizens who do nothing, there is also greater unemployment among immigrants who find it difficult to enter the labour market and earn money corresponding to the level of transfer income. A Somali who comes to Norway and the survey is made will typically end up in unemployment. If the same kind of Somalis come to the United States, they will typically end up in work. So when does the Prime Minister admit that the social democracy and all this transfer policy are a challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142746	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142747	I fully acknowledge that having a social model where you have a strong social security net is challenged when we speak immigration. It certainly is. I think that is beyond doubt. What is my challenge, as opposed to the rapporteur, is that I do not want a Denmark where there is no strong social safety net. I do not want to say to people and families: then you must sink. It's because I'm a Social Democrat. What is then my headache is to ensure that we can continue to have a strong welfare society and yet make integration work. That is the task we have taken on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142825	Thank you. And now to the provisional last, which has signed up for a brief remark, Mrs Pernille Vermund of New Citizens: here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142831	Thank you. One solution could be to say that we are now linking the right to public support to Danish citizenship. We would like to see this in the new citizens, but I know that there is no majority in favour; there is not even a majority in favour of us making it a requirement for people who come here as a prerequisite for their residence permit. That's too bad, but that's what it is. The Prime Minister said earlier that in some bourgeois parties it was thought that there should be whip at the bottom and carrot at the top and that it would work. I just have to say that what we mean as a citizen is that it must always be worthwhile to work and that we must politically create as few obstacles as possible for people to enter the labour market, but also for people to make an extra effort when they are in the labour market and maybe also make a little more money and do a little more than most. And here are raised benefits a challenge (Den fg. President Prime Minister)... because the opportunity to enter the labour market... I have some time left! The likelihood of entering the labour market is probably weakened by an increase in benefits. Now I got out of it all the way because I got pulled over in the middle of it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142936	There was an art break, so I thought Mrs. Pernille Vermund was finished. You can get 10 seconds further to the next question. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122142947	After all, I am a politician and not a lawyer, which is why I do not have to pass any legal judgment on anything at all. But now we have spent a lot of time discussing legal bases and law during the autumn, and it sounds to me as if New Citizens here are going to do something that is contrary to the Constitution. Because it is a constitutional right that you can obtain support when you are in Denmark, and that is probably why changing governments have tried to set up a system of benefits, so that there are clear incentives, such as a principle of income, but without doing what New Citizens are proposing. But we're gonna have to try to verify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143022	Thank you. And then there is a little longer Question Time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143025	I know it is not contrary to the Constitution to make demands on people who come here and apply for a residence permit in Denmark, that they should be able to support themselves, that is, that it is a prerequisite for obtaining a residence permit in Denmark that you support yourself. We are already making that as a requirement for those who come and are not migrants. So hopefully when one day we no longer have people who have come here seeking spontaneous asylum, but only have people who are immigrants, was it not an idea to say: a prerequisite for your being here is that you support yourself, draw unemployment insurance, and if you do not want to, or if you cannot, then you must go back to your home country, because then your residence permit ceases or expires?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143107	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143109	Well, the basic idea is there a lot of perspective, namely that if you choose actively to come to Denmark, it should be because you know in advance that you have a job, that you can support yourself and that your residence basis is conditional on it. But I do not think it is possible to do so, and I do not think it is possible to do so in a way that, for example, it is determined in relation to citizenship, because I believe that both the New Citizen and the Government agree that it should be very difficult even to obtain the right to citizenship in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143140	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143145	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech during this traditional debate we have in the Folketing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, and it is also the President of the Social Democratic Party who is now trying to bring an impeachment against former Minister for Integration Inger Løjberg, whether it is sustainable in the long run that the Social Democrats and the government place international conventions above Danish law. I am asking because it is extremely important that we in Denmark have the opportunity to do what we want, what we think is the right thing, what the Folketing adopts, for example. in relation to the relationship between men and women. What Mrs Inger Løjberg, as Minister for Integration, did, after all, was to ensure that older men were separated from young girls. So now we are in a situation where there is an impeachment on that basis. So the question to the Prime Minister is: Do international conventions continue to be placed on Danish law and law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143253	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143254	I think it is important to clarify that the impeachment case on which the Folketing has agreed by a broad majority is not about the issue of accommodation at asylum centres. It is an impeachment case bound up with what is quite crucial in Denmark, namely whether a minister works and speaks correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143315	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143316	Yeah, that's the PM's opinion. We are of the clear opinion in the Danish People's Party that when you look at the fact that the Socialists want an impeachment against an integration minister trying to separate the older men from the young girls in order to protect the young girls, the Prime Minister of the children, as the Prime Minister calls himself, should be the first to say: OK, the doubts that have then arisen here must, after all, benefit the minister who is trying to do the right thing here, namely to protect the children from the older men. Shouldn't it be the right thing to try to protect the children here? And then we come back to the question: Are international conventions heavier for the Prime Minister than Danish law and law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143404	I have said and emphasised all the way in this process, and I do so again, that both I and the Social Democrats agreed with the minister then that the couples should be separated. That doesn't change the fact that you have to administer according to the law and you have to act according to the law in Denmark. So the impeachment case is not about the issue of minors who, in my view, are mistakenly married to adult men. It's not about that. It is all about the legal role and thus the role of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143435	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are no further brief comments to the Prime Minister. Then Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the rapporteur for the questioners, asked for the floor for a final speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122143502	Thank you very much for the debate. Like last year, it has been a long debate, and last year it was also a Friday. And let me say that I am really pleased that there are a lot of people in here who spell Friday with e and not in. So it's Friday and not day off. This debate proves that, too, because there have been a great many people in the Chamber, and I think that is very, very good. What is also good is that there is more and more understanding that we must have a strict immigration policy, that we should not go down there, as we did years ago, because this has really proved to be disastrous. I also think that many people have expressed this here today, in other words that it was wrong that mistakes were made. And these are expensive mistakes, you might say, and it takes a great deal to correct the many, many mistakes that have been made over time. Now, sir. Rasmus Stoklund here, and he is an excellent rapporteur, and I have noticed several times that his needle with the dimensions of the world has been replaced by a needle with a blade. It is also one of the signs in here that you care more about Danish values and value Danish society. I think that's only good. But the fact is that in the last 20 years blue governments led by the Danish People's Party have made quite a lot of restrictions on foreign policy, which batter, and we have therefore, I think, regularly received little more than scolding. This has been especially the case for my own party. But that does not matter, because I think that the result here today shows that it has been useful, and what is always good for politicians is when you feel that, no matter how many battles you take, it has, after all, been useful, and that is quite fine. But the reality is that, unfortunately, the austerity of which the Social Democrats are now very proud can be counted on very few fingers, while the austerity for which the blue parties can take credit can be counted by hundreds. I would also like to mention, as a side comment, what Mr. Mr Skaarup referred to the case of former Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs, Mr Inger Nøjberg. In fact, this is also an attack on the strict immigration policy. And what I have been thinking about, also in relation to the very pervasive debate on impeachment that we are going to have next week, etc., is that I was also in the Folketing in 1993 when we had the Tamil case. There I have thought that it is actually about the same thing, because the Tamil case and this child bride case are about the fact that we cannot deal with Danish legislation because we have some international conventions that we have to comply with. And funny enough, exactly the two cases are the last two impeachment cases, where a very large proportion of the Danish population support the minister who sat, but the ministers then go into impeachment because there are some international conventions. We will therefore also have to take that discussion, and I know that the Danish People's Party has naturally asked for a debate on this which will be on the agenda at some point. There we are debating which conventions we should actually be included in, how much we should be allowed to decide ourselves in Denmark and how much we should be restricted by international conventions. It is time to put an end to these conventions. There is no doubt about it at all. And I could also understand from the Prime Minister that she is now saying that there must be an end to asylum, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is also making the newspapers, but if you then ask a little more about the end of asylum, the answer is that we will then be in carambola with the conventions. That means we have to have this reception center somewhere in the world, but it's extremely difficult to get it established. But OK, we're gonna take the debate, and somewhere I hope we're gonna get to the end of it. When we are in the process of relaxing, it should not go unnoticed that the Social Democrats have made a number of concessions. I think that is a pity, also because I think that we can find a consensus on foreign policy on a number of points. However, I believe that those easings will affect the number of asylums upwards when the covid-19 crisis is over. We can, for example, just look at Gran Canaria, which is so flooded by refugees. What will happen when we no longer have the covid-19 crisis? Will we then experience a new 2015 migration towards Europe, towards Denmark? I would like to mention some of the reliefs: refugees are allowed to stay in Denmark if they are in employment; the exit centre Lindholm has been dropped, and therefore rejected asylum seekers and criminals expelled foreigners and persons who tolerated stay still at Kærshovedgård, which gives the local population great insecurity, and the government has promised a solution, but it has not arrived; the government receives quota refugees again, now 200 a year, but it will probably be more along the way; the residence requirement for entitlement to unemployment benefit has been removed; a new family allowance of DKK 550-700 has been introduced. per child. As usual, I find it hard to keep track of time when it's as important as this. But let me conclude by saying that too many relaxations have already been introduced. Then I will just say at the end of the day that a great many proposals have been made for adoption. We will, of course, vote in favour of our own and against everyone else when we vote on them on Tuesday. But thank you for the floor, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144036	Thank you to the rapporteur, and also thank you for knowing that it is always the President's job to try really to get Members to keep to their speaking time. Now a few Members have asked for brief comments on the rapporteur. It's first, sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144052	Thank you. I did not really intend to bring it up myself, but now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard did so in her own speech, that is to say on the issue of possible impeachment. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party supports possible violations of law, if only one agrees with the act that has been committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144110	Well, what is it? Now we have it again. I mean, why on earth do you set up an impeachment case? It's to find out. Anyway, you've been convicted in advance here. You can already feel that the fire is burning and that you are working on the knitting needles. I mean, what the hell is this? I think it's totally unfair. We are in the process of establishing an impeachment case, but can we spare it? Because Inger Løjberg is guilty, they say, so we might as well kick her out of the Folketing etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144136	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144137	No one has been convicted in advance, because only the Court of Justice can judge for misconduct. What we just know is that the Ombudsman has estimated that there has been a breach of law, on 1 March 2019 the City Court of Copenhagen has assessed that there has been a breach of law that has been part-conclusion by the Instructor's Commission from 14 December last year, and independent lawyers have also assessed a breach of law on 15 January this year. Then I just want to know if the Danish People's Party supports possible violations of law, if only you agree with the act that has been committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144208	It has nothing to do with nothing. But I am very much looking forward to the debate we will have next week. Because I think that once again it is totally derailed. I think it is very, very wrong to do it that way. This should not be done at all, in other words with the long treatment we are about to embark on. And then I should just like to remind you that each of us are prosecutors in here, and that is why I have to say that the Danish People's Party has called for the clearing system to be abolished, so that everyone has to go down to the Chamber and vote in relation to his own convictions. We're the ones who have to settle this case. That's us. So let's see how it's gonna go at that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144241	There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144244	I did not actually intend to take the floor, but there is simply something that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has gotten wrong in her throat. That impeachment is not about international conventions. It is about living in a country and having a democracy in which ministers are not allowed to lie to the Folketing. The impeachment case is about the law of ministerial accountability, it is about the law of administration. It has nothing to do with international conventions, nothing. I am therefore surprised that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party will not be able to hold this impeachment. I would say to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that we could have avoided it, but Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and her party held their hands under a minister who lied to the Folketing and broke the law. If Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party had acted differently in 2016, we would not have been in this situation today. But we feel that way in the Enhedslisten and there's a majority in here who feels so that you don't lie to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144342	We can only note that if there had been a different majority we might as well have noticed that we would not have had this case. That's the way it is. It also helps to announce that it is we in here who make the decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144356	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144357	Yeah, exactly. That is why I agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that it is sensible to repeal the clearing agreement in a case that is so serious, so that we can see how many members of the Danish Parliament who are actually in favour of legal certainty and for the law to be equal to all of us, including ministers. But I have to say that the Danish People's Party has simply got it wrong, what this case is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144419	I do not think we have that at all, of course we do not. We know this case. We have been in it for quite a number of years. But let us hope that there is exactly the same uproar in relation to legal certainty when we are going to start another case which may affect a different majority in the Folketing. Then I would remind Mrs Rosa Lund and like-minded people of the words that have just been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144442	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. No one else has asked to speak now, and that is why the debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the many proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144517	I should also like to point out here that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice. First of all, Mr President, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur on the questioners. Christian Juhl, to give the reasons. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144531	Thank you. Today, a new period begins in the effort to remove all nuclear weapons. The UN Treaty on a definite ban is coming into force today. Ninety days ago Honduras ratified as a country no. The 50th Treaty. The Treaty supplements existing bans on biological and chemical weapons, cluster bombs and landmines, and at the same time tightens up the 1968 Non-Proliferation Treaty, which aims to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are one of the greatest threats to world peace. Global security has been put into an iron grip on the nuclear arms race that is helping to draw today's major political shatters... a battle where the obvious losers are all of us. Although we amazingly rarely talk about the threat they pose, nuclear weapons and the fatal threat they pose do not disappear. Nuclear weapons don't disappear because we don't talk about them. The nuclear weapon is the last weapon of mass destruction that has not been banned. For 50 years we have had a treaty on the control of nuclear weapons, the so-called non-proliferation agreement, and it has resulted in a reduction in the number of weapons, but the weapons have been modernised. The nuclear weapons available to the countries today are much, much, to say little, much, much stronger than the bombs that were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. The arsenal of bombs at the disposal of the nuclear powers can destroy the possibilities of existence in all the major cities of the world. In 2018, the Swedish Peace Research Institute SIPRI determined the number of nuclear weapons to 14,465. Here were 2,000 ready to fire. SIPRI also notes that all nuclear powers are in the process of further modernising their nuclear arsenals. In addition to that, I would like to say that we have received a completely dew-fresh news, namely that this morning youGov has published a study which shows that 78%. of those questioned in Denmark believe that Denmark should adhere to the Treaty. Only 7%. answers no. Among Social Democrats and SF voters there are as many as 80 per cent respectively. of the voters who want Denmark to join the Treaty. 65% even believes that Denmark should be among the first NATO countries to do so, although Denmark can come under pressure from the United States not to do so. That is why SF and Enhedslisten are asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs behind the simple question: Will the Minister take the initiative for Denmark to ratify the UN Treaty of 7 July 2017, which prohibits all nuclear weapons, and thus undertake not to develop, test, manufacture or otherwise acquire or store nuclear weapons? Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144826	Thank you for the words to the rapporteur for the questions. And in order to answer the question, I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122144841	Thank you very much, President, and thank you to the authors for having this opportunity to explain the government's policy in relation to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, also known as the Ban Treaty. Let me first state that the government supports the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. And I actually sense that there is a broad consensus on this objective in this Chamber: we all want the same thing. However, we may disagree a little on how best and, above all, most effectively to achieve our common goals. It is my clear assessment and that of the government that Danish ratification of this Treaty, the TPNW Treaty, as proposed in the question, will not further that objective. At the same time, it will be in direct conflict with Danish NATO membership, which, as you know, is the basis for Danish security. And that is why I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, cannot support the TPNW Treaty. I really understand very well that the simple approach of the ban treaty can immediately be attractive: a legally binding treaty that prohibits nuclear weapons. You'd think you'd be done with your work. The problem is that reality is not as simple as the prohibition treaty expresses, and I would like to explain why. Firstly, clear disarmament and non-proliferation are already fully covered by a solid and comprehensive Treaty: the NPT Treaty, which Denmark has already ratified, that is to say the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Over the last 50 years since 1970, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT, has been the cornerstone of the international community's efforts in the field of nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use of nuclear energy. Virtually every country in the world has signed up to this basic treaty. What is crucial is that it includes both nuclear and non-nuclear powers. The United States, Russia, the UK, France and China have acceded to the Treaty and committed themselves in good faith to work for disarmament with the ultimate aim of abolishing nuclear weapons. The Treaty contains a solid verification regime in which the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, has the crucial role as the guarantor of the peaceful and safe use of nuclear power by the international community. It is therefore in the framework of the NPT that the real discussions on disarmament have taken place over the last 50 years, and it is the Government's view that we must maintain and strengthen the existing framework for international cooperation on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, and we cannot therefore support the Ban Treaty. This brings me to my second point, which concerns the very drafting of the ban treaty. The Prohibition Treaty suffers from obvious shortcomings. First of all, but really important, none of the states that possess nuclear weapons have signed up to this treaty. A treaty banning nuclear weapons which does not include the nuclear powers made poor sense. It is clear that disarmament can only become a reality if the countries with nuclear weapons are included in the agreement. Otherwise, it will be a paper manoeuvre which unfortunately takes the form of purely symbolic policy. It is the clear position of the government that we can only achieve real disarmament if the nuclear powers are involved. If we want to achieve results, we need a diplomatic, constructive and pragmatic dialogue with the nuclear powers we ultimately want to influence, and there is a better framework for the NPT than the Ban Treaty. The importance of having the nuclear powers is underlined by the welcome announcement by the new President of the United States that a five-year extension of the New Start Agreement to strategic nuclear weapons will be sought. The Ban Treaty thus gives false hopes of the speed with which disarmament can realistically take place in the current geopolitical situation. Similarly, the Treaty only covers the relatively few countries that have joined. In this context, it is also a shortcoming that the ban treaty is not credible in terms of the verification of disarmament. Since these are weapons of strategic importance, the elimination of weapons and verification are inextricably linked. Unlike the TPNW Treaty, we have a treaty which already works and which has produced real and tangible results over the last 50 years, namely the Treaty of NPT. The world during this period witnessed huge reductions in the number of nuclear weapons. The United States and Russia now have a limit of 1,550 strategic warheads. In the case of the United States, this is a reduction of over 30,000 warheads during the Cold War. NATO has reduced its nuclear weapons in Europe by 90%. since the Cold War. And these things have been achieved within the framework of the NPT, and that is also in relation to the disarmament agreement rules on mutual verification. Thirdly, our position in NATO is, of course, crucial. NATO has been the cornerstone of Danish security since 1949. The government shares NATO's policy on nuclear weapons, which is fully in line with the NPT. NATO's policy is that as long as nuclear weapons exist, there is no other option than that NATO remains a nuclear alliance. The fundamental objective of NATO ^'s nuclear capabilities is to preserve peace and to deter potential outside coercion or aggression. In short, our NATO allies do not have nuclear weapons because they want to use them. They have them to deter others from using nuclear weapons. In the current security policy situation of increasing power rivalry, it is crucial that the alliance is united and that individual members do not break with the consensus that prevails around NATO's deterrent profile. In NATO, therefore, there is clear agreement to reject the ban treaty, and none of our allies has signed up to this treaty. I attach great importance to the arms control body as Foreign Minister. This effort has been a priority for a number of years by previous governments, but I have chosen to give priority to the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think this is important, and in August the 10th Review Conference of the NPT will be held, and the government will do its part to work actively for the strengthening of the regime. This is the path that the government finds viable. So I hope that we will therefore be able to ring our common goal today, because I am sure that there is a common goal of nuclear disarmament and arms control in the broad sense. And, of course, a vision of a future without nuclear weapons. I look forward to a good debate on how we can best jointly push for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145544	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is now the case that there is one brief comment for the rapporteurs, and that is first, Mr President. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145554	After all, today there was a chance that the Foreign Minister could deliver a piece of concrete value-based foreign policy. Instead, it is being made to be in direct contradiction with our membership of NATO. How can this be connected? How could we not ratify this treaty and at the same time be a member of NATO? We are already clear that there must be no nuclear weapons on Danish soil, so where and in what context should it be in conflict with our membership, when the Foreign Minister even represents a party which in the 1980s in many ways marked a different policy exactly in relation to nuclear weapons against NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145637	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145639	I'd like to say to Mr. Karsten Hønge, that I actually thought that SF was part of the parties that took NATO membership seriously and were behind the broad security alliance. To make a long story short: NATO's aim is also to have a world without nuclear weapons, but as long as there are nuclear weapons in the world, it must not be the case that countries can threaten NATO and our security with nuclear weapons. That is why we need to have nuclear weapons and then work together to dismantle these weapons. It's actually very natural. We can go into it, but what we have in NATO is a defence alliance. It is therefore a defence against being attacked by some others, and we must do everything we can to prevent some people from wanting to attack us or from becoming vulnerable to pressure in the NATO alliance. So it goes without saying. Then I would like to mention that if you look at NATO's overall deterrent profile, it also shows that this is an important element of the current situation. But we have a wish and NATO policy is clear here: we are also working to disarm, but of course it must be done by the nuclear powers that are in the world and done together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145753	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145756	Thank you. I am also a little surprised that the new vision of a value-based social democratic foreign policy does not have any substance at all, at least not yet, but it may be. When you say that the NPT is the alpha and the omega, the Minister must admit that there is a certain impasse in those negotiations. The mere fact that you are making a five-year extension can in itself be said to give false hopes because there is no mood to move forward at the moment. I hope, then, that the Minister will do more than accept a five-year extension if we are going to move forward. It is true that there are fewer nuclear weapons, but the explosive force has never been greater than it is at present. It has never been greater than it is at present. So there's no reason just to cheer over the numbers when these weapons are more refined and much stronger. It takes a lot of Hiroshima bombs to make up just one nuclear bomb today. That is why I would like to hear: is it not a self-fulfilling prophecy when NATO says: No, we do not want to be in a treaty that does not have much influence because there are not many countries in it? When NATO does not join, it is self-fulfilling that it has no influence. Then you can easily conduct politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145915	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122145918	What Enhedslisten's rapporteur is arguing for here is in fact going to risk throwing all disarmament and non-proliferation overboard, and that will lead to the exact opposite of what I am quite sure is Mr. Christian Juhl's intention is to have a world that degrades and ultimately a world without nuclear weapons. After all, the Ban Treaty has a very attractive name. The only problem is that it does not live up to the name it has. It is only credible if that treaty includes countries that have nuclear weapons. It doesn't. We have a Treaty of NPT which we are working for must work and which has worked in terms of disarmament. We can always discuss how to get further. This is what the government has set out to do. It is also the Government's vision that we must reach a world without nuclear weapons. So this whole thing about making symbolism policy, like mr. Christian Juhl argues in favour, by joining this and throwing away all the value policy and the opportunity to make a real difference to disarmament, this government is not going to do so. We want to make real value policy, make a difference and disarm with our allies. That is the real way to a more peaceful world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150027	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments in this round and we shall now proceed to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the question, and that is Mr von der Vring. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150050	It is very good to see that ministers live up to the Danish meaning of the word ministers, namely servants, and that is how they clean the table, thank you very much for it. On 7 July 2017, 122 countries voted in the UN for the Nuclear Weapons Ban Treaty. It was a new step, a major step, towards the objective that we all agree on a total ban on nuclear weapons and a good addition to the agreements that exist. It was therefore embarrassing that Denmark, which has traditionally been active against nuclear weapons, boycotted the negotiations and abstained from the vote. A ban is both about real policy, about getting more countries to stop the devastating nuclear arms race, but it is also about democracy and about using and safeguarding our UN system and respecting the majority of the United Nations that has set that process in motion. Having nuclear weapons should not be a right. Today, five countries have official nuclear weapons: the United States, Russia, China, France and the United Kingdom, and there are at least four countries which have nuclear weapons unofficially but which are not covered by the Non-Proliferation Treaty. No one should have the right to threaten world peace, including our so-called ally Israel and the United States, but of course not countries such as India, Pakistan or North Korea either. From this point of view, it is also quite wrong when NATO is trying to block Member States ratifying the UN Treaty. In Norway, a report has been prepared on whether international law is a problem both in being a member of NATO and in ratifying the Treaty. The answer is clearly no, and if a Norwegian report is not enough for our Danish government, we must ask you to ensure that independent Danish experts examine the international challenges in this matter. But more fundamentally, I hope that everyone can see that it is baroque that a military alliance which has as a self-declared goal to work for peace and disarmament stands in the way of a new approach to disarmament of nuclear weapons. On 20 September 2020, last year, 56 former presidents, prime ministers, foreign ministers and defence ministers from 20 NATO countries, as well as Japan and South Korea sent an open letter in support of this new treaty to the current leaders of these countries. The co-signators count among others. former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, former NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana and Willy Claes and from Denmark three former Foreign Ministers, namely Mogens Lykketoft, Holger K. Nielsen and Kjeld Olesen, who surely cannot be said to want the present government anything bad. They write in their joint approach, and I quote: the Federal Treaty, which was adopted in 2017, can help to end decades of paralysis of disarmament. It's a lighthouse of hope in a dark time. It enables all countries to adhere to the highest available and most comprehensive standards against nuclear weapons while at the same time helping to create international pressure for further action. Quote out. As I mentioned before, there are 78%. of the Danes who, in a study from today, say that Denmark must join the treaty, even if NATO will protest, and the Social Democrats and SF's own voters are of course well-intentioned. There are 80 and 85% respectively who want Denmark to join the Treaty. Weapons races such as nuclear arms build-up cause further destabilisation, uncertainty, and cost billions of dollars. We must ratify the Treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons in order to get nuclear disarmament locked in motion. So far, initiatives have stalled, something new has to happen. The world is not a safe place until we have the nuclear weapons removed, and this treaty is a good addition to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. It is, of course, okay for the Minister to confirm his fundamental opposition to nuclear weapons, but we now have an obvious opportunity to act in character, to show will and principle. There are no real political arguments for not taking this obvious step, and I would urge the Minister to initiate ratification of the UN Treaty on a ban on nuclear weapons as a very, very good addition to the initiatives he himself mentions. These are not the only two initiatives. There are plenty of initiatives in this area. I would then ask for permission to read out our proposal for adoption.I am not sure that I can just achieve it within the time it is quite all right) and it is on behalf of the SF, Alternative, Free Greens and Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption.The Danish Parliament supports the ultimate goal of a world without nuclear weapons. Parliament calls on the government to promote all possibilities for increasing disarmament and control of nuclear weapons, including the 1968 UN Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), the New START negotiations, the Stockholm Initiative, Vienna-10 and the 2017 UN Treaty on Nuclear Weapons (TPNW). The Danish Parliament calls on the Government to allow independent experts to examine the international law aspects of both being NATO member and supporting TPNW. V 59). The secretaries asked me what Vienna 10 is, and I said that we cannot write anything extra in, but I would like to inform you that this is an initiative that ten countries have taken to strengthen control of the existing nuclear weapons, and which is also working to get these stranded negotiations going again, and they know Denmark very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150641	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150649	Thank you. What got me a little out of the chair was that the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten said that Denmark should join this agreement, regardless of whether NATO became angry or not. I understand that the Enhedslisten comes from where they now come from, namely a historical Communist-Socialist Labour Party and all sorts of other parties that had too close ties with, among others. The North as a nuclear-weapon-free zone and all sorts of other organizations, on which it was later found that many of the main characters had too close historical and economic ties with Soviet agents. So what I'm just trying to get back to is: Shouldn't you rather focus on where to focus, namely on Russia, which has been completely aggressively breaking existing agreements in relation to this area and is in the process of an aggressive attitude that we haven't seen in recent times?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150747	I am very sorry that the Left rapporteur calls Anker Jørgensen someone who may have been an agent of the Soviet Union. Nor have I myself been an agent or in any way engaged in such activities, and I know a great many of the people of the peace movement from then on, and I think it is quite indecent to call them that. But in addition to that, this new agreement applies to all countries. That's the intention of it. 122 countries voted for it in the United Nations in 2017, which is why there is good reason to look at it as a complement to the Non-Proliferation Treaty we have now, so that we can have a new forward leap. New ideas are needed now, and I think that the Left should take a look at the fact that if you cannot come up with alternatives yourself, you might be able to support the one great, good initiative that is on the table at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150838	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150838-2	But that was not really an answer to my question. The question was whether you should focus on the country that is the aggressive party in this and that has been the aggressive party in the last 10 years. There is only one country in Europe that has currently occupied parts of three European countries: it is Russia. There is only one country that is well engaged in hacker attacks, attempts to fly over, etc. etc.: It's Russia. So it is not because NATO is the aggressive party. NATO is just a match for the aggressiveness that comes from Russia. It would not be better to focus on where to focus rather than stand and discuss: should we not, should we not, should we not? I repeat my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122150917	I tried to explain to the rapporteur of the Left that these are all countries, including Russia, and I have no idea of saying anything good or bad about NATO in this context; I just think we have a historic chance of getting a boost in the work now, and that is what I am focusing on. I don't focus on history and old times. Many countries are modernising their weapons. All nuclear countries are doing so at the moment, says SIPRI. And there are countries that are experimenting with obtaining weapons, North Korea is, and Iran is, and other countries that we do not know about at the moment, certainly do. That is why we must focus on getting binding treaties that apply to Russia; which apply to the United States; which applies to China; which applies to Iran; and which applies to all countries that want to use or have nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151000	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, rapporteur for the questioners. And the next rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind. Christian Juhl Precisely someone who knows Anker Jørgensen and the footnote policy, so it will be exciting). It's warmed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151027	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for allowing us today to discuss something as disgusting as nuclear weapons. There is no doubt whatsoever that we in the Social Democratic Party have exactly the same objectives as the questioners. We want to ban nuclear weapons and prohibit testing, manufacturing or otherwise acquiring or storing nuclear weapons. So the goal is exactly the same, but in terms of how to get there, we may not agree entirely. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated very clearly and fully what he thinks, and I have the same views as the Minister. It can be said that we are already included in the NPT Non-Proliferation Treaty, of which we became part in 1970, together with 40 other countries. And since that time almost as long as I've lived, almost every country has signed this treaty. Why, then, can we not just endorse another treaty, TPNW, which is also called the Ban Treaty? Yes, it is because we seem to be so slightly simplified that it does not go hand in hand with being a NATO country. And it is not just a position that we have in Denmark, because there are actually no NATO countries which have acceded to this Treaty, which I believe will come into force today, I read. What can be said is that, although it sounds sympathetic, the Treaty, as the Foreign Minister has explained, cannot achieve effectively or in a credible way the objective for which it is set in the world. When as many Danes as Mr. Christian Juhl said he wants to join it, so it is enough, because everyone as laymen, if you are asked whether you are in favour of a treaty that prohibits nuclear weapons and does not know the background to it, would of course say yes; it would be quite strange if you, as a Dane, did not say so. On the contrary, we are concerned that this Treaty risks having negative effects on existing international efforts on disarmament and non-proliferation, which are supported by virtually all the countries of the world. In addition, Danish accession to the Treaty would be contrary to Denmark's membership of NATO and thus also undermine Denmark's security policy interests. As long as nuclear weapons exist, we believe that there is no other option than that NATO remains a nuclear alliance. In NATO, therefore, there is also clear agreement to reject this treaty; as I said before, no one has ratified it. It is true that Holland and Norway have produced a report, but neither of the two countries has acceded to the Treaty, even after the report. So in other words, we really think that it is incompatible to be a NATO member to ratify the TPNW Treaty, which is the subject of this question. But we agree on the goal. So we cannot agree with the proposal for adoption put forward by the authors. On the other hand, we have made another proposal for adoption, and I would like to make the following on behalf of S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament supports the ultimate goal of a world without nuclear weapons in full compliance with the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and with Denmark's commitments in NATO. NATO is the foundation for Danish security. As long as nuclear weapons exist, there is no other option than that NATO remains a nuclear alliance. Like other NATO countries, the Folketing considers that the nuclear ban treaty will not contribute to disarmament and non-proliferation efforts, since it is without the participation of the nuclear powers and without a credible verification mechanism. The Treaty runs the risk of divisiveness and weakening the prospect of progress under the NPT. Parliament considers that the NPT remains the cornerstone of global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation efforts and remains the only credible path towards nuclear disarmament. Parliament calls on the government to work at the forthcoming review conference of the NPT to preserve and strengthen this regime. • V 60). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151447	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is only from Mr Seligman's point of view. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151453	Now I understand that it would be quite awful and very cruel and completely impossible if we were to go to ratify this agreement. Yes, it would even be contrary to NATO and undermine Denmark's security policy. This is a tough position, especially when I am now asking the question: if it is so obvious that it is so terrible and so wrong, what is it that former Foreign Minister Kjeld Olesen and former Foreign Minister Mogens Lykketoft have not gotten a piece of, but as Mrs Annette Lind has?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151526	But I have my own opinion; the former Foreign Ministers have their own opinion. I have the same opinion as all other NATO countries. And so it is also the case that we, like all NATO countries, do not think it compatible with NATO membership to be part of this treaty, because it is precisely within NATO that we can do the most about the world becoming a nuclear-free world. And it is the case that we in Denmark have called for control of strategic weapons and for discussions to be held with the countries that have nuclear weapons. And it is the case that no country has nuclear weapons of its own that has adopted this treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151609	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151610	It is actually a very serious matter that two such very experienced socialist politicians, top politicians and all that Mrs Annette Lind can say to that is: well, I mean something else; they have their opinion, and I have mine; they are equally good. I guess not. I just mean: can Mrs Annette Lind give a hint of what makes it possible to look at it a little differently from what Mrs Annette Lind is doing now, by simply rejecting it and saying that it would obviously be completely destructive to NATO and Denmark's security policy? I think that is a completely excessive rhetoric in relation to what is at issue here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151652	Well, I would never ever put words in the mouth of either sir. Karsten Hønge or any former Foreign Ministers. They must have their own opinion. I have a different opinion and the opinion is that in my view it is not compatible with being part of this Treaty that one is part of the other Treaty at the same time. And as far as my opinion is concerned, that is all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151721	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151722	Thank you. So let's try to do it in a slightly more positive way. In the 1980s, when I was young, Denmark took the lead in relation to the Nordic region as a nuclear-free zone. We stayed in NATO. No one was complaining. We had the medium-range missiles stopped in Europe, especially by means of large popular movements both in the east and in the west. This means that the Russian and Western nuclear weapons did not come to face each other very close to Europe. We even decided in Denmark that we would not have nuclear weapons on Danish soil. It is an old dogma that the Socialists have supported throughout my lifetime. It is, of course, against NATO's interests. It is something that goes without saying that a country goes solo there. What is the reason why we cannot take a few new steps, for example. With this Treaty, which is a super supplement to the Non-Proliferation Treaty? I do not see it as an alternative, but as a supplement, because the Non-Proliferation Treaty is in deadlock at the moment. I guess we all agree on that, that is, that nothing really happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151826-2	Well, that is because we do not think it is compatible with being a member of that treaty or whatever you are, that is to say to have ratified the Treaty called the NPT, of which we are part. With regard to disarmament, I think we should look around a little in relation to what is happening in the government. It is true that our Minister for Foreign Affairs has actually been the first Minister for the Interior since Mr. Martin Lidegaard has put disarmament on the agenda. It is the case that the Foreign Minister said this morning to a meeting we had: we have equipped disarmament and the focus has just been on disarmament. That is why it is very, very important for us in the Social Democratic Party, and it is important for the government to focus precisely on that. And, as I said in my reply before, we have called on China, Russia and the United States to take strategic discussions on how best to do this. But we do it best in NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151921	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122151922	But what would happen to the new treaty was that if you ratified it, you were working for a total ban. And that is, of course, if the Minister is telling the truth, fully in accordance with NATO's basis. That is what NATO's declared basis is, that is, that we should have nuclear weapons removed and that we should have depleted. And, of course, it must be balanced. We have always agreed on this. Why is it not taken as a good and positive addition that 122 of the UN countries actually voted in favour in 2017 and that 50 countries have already ratified it? It gives a voice to countries like ours that do not have nuclear weapons. It is strange that you will not use the dynamic that lies in it after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152002	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152003	It is because I think it is compatible to talk about these things with the countries that have nuclear weapons. And no country has ratified the second treaty. You have to have the dialogue, and where is the dialogue? Yeah, that's where people are. That is why we believe that this is incompatible with NATO membership. That this is incompatible with it is the view of the whole of NATO, because we believe that when you are a member of NATO, where there are nuclear weapons, that is also where the debate is being held. And we are taking the lead as a country and calling for the discussion of disarmament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152041	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish Liberal Party, the Left, and that is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen and it's for a cleaned speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152103	Thank you. Yes, it is true that the Danish Liberal Party also has a clear position on this, because it is the same as in my question to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we are very sceptical that Denmark is being pressured to sign this declaration in direct contradiction with what our other allies in NATO are doing without, in fact, focusing on where the focus should be. Because if we go in and look at the last 10 years, there are really two countries that are causing the worldwide, global instability is increasing. Here in Europe it is very, very easy: there it is Russia in particular. There is only one country that currently occupied parts of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, and that is Russia. And so there is only one country that continues to let aggressiveness increase in both rhetoric and actions, and that is Russia. Then there is no point in us spending our time on it is a bit like a revenant from the 1980s to sit and discuss whether we should do it from one side or the other from here, when we know very well that there is no such debate going on in the Duma in Moscow. No, what is it, they know we do. They want so much instability and so much discussion within their counterpart, that is. NATO, as possible. So put it very squarely, and yes, I mean it one hundred per cent then you are playing completely on the agenda that Putin wants, namely that we are beginning to make it squeak in the excellent cooperation that is necessary to be able to resist the aggressiveness we are unfortunately experiencing. It was therefore more appropriate that, to ensure that this instability was reduced, we began to address who is the main villain in this, namely Putin. That is why we can safely say on the left that we are vertically opposed to this proposal. We think it is a very fine and balanced text which the Social Democrat rapporteur has read out, which we support, and which clearly states that of course we also want a world without nuclear weapons, but that must be balanced. As long as nuclear weapons are needed to be a deterrent to possible aggressiveness and the like, that is a necessity. That is why we can only see this in a common picture and, of course, total disarmament must take place from all sides. Actually, I'm pretty optimistic about that. While we are sitting here debating, there is good news from Washington that the Biden administration is actually ready to engage in active dialogue with Russia to try to see how we can achieve global disarmament, perhaps a new START agreement or at least an enforcement of the START agreements, etc. We very much welcome this from the Left. So all in all, we believe that it will play a direct role on Putin's agenda if we start discussing internally some different attempts to create divisions within NATO, whereas we would rather focus on the aggressor that is there, namely Putin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152430	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152435	The rapporteur of the Left is using an old trick, and unfortunately I am no longer 20 years old, so I am not buying that. That is the point: if you want disarmament in the world, if you want less military, you have to be ready to answer a lot of questions about why you are doing the enemy's business immediately. It is a very good old trick that the rapporteur has inherited from old politicians, but it is not going to work. The rapporteur of the Left is forced to decide whether a new initiative can give fresh impetus to the negotiations on the non-proliferation agreements or not. That is what this is all about. The question of whether or not it causes unrest in NATO must be dealt with internally. The most important thing is that we are not only talking about an objective of eliminating nuclear weapons, but also acting on it. That is why I am asking the Left to try to go a little productively to it and explain what the cause is, because there are no objective reasons for this. And who says this is against NATO membership? It does not seem to be, but one can, of course, discipline oneself and say: we are always right when NATO speaks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152540	I was just about to say, unfortunately, but no matter what, it's been so many years since I was 20 years old. It's actually been 24 years, so I don't have to be able to say what a 20-year-old thinks anymore. But what I can say, on the other hand, is that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur reveals himself. The interest in NATO is apparently so low that when we talk about this causing instability or unrest in NATO, we say: you have to deal with that. No, in fact, the Kingdom of Denmark has been a member of NATO since its establishment. In fact, the Left is proud of it. It may be that Enhedslisten is not. We know, among other things. on the basis of history and other things, why it is so, but we can always discuss it. But we are, and that is why we do not want internal unrest and instability. On the other hand, we want us to be aware of and to be stronger against the aggressiveness of Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152638	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152639	Now it is a question of getting disarmament going and disarmament will include all the countries on this planet if we succeed in getting the new momentum in the negotiations on the control regime going and if we get a new level of debate. It's like you stick to old times. It is, as in the case of footnote policy, where the Left scolded the Social Democracy, even though footnote policy created a new dynamic and created a situation so that we could remove some of the nuclear weapons, particularly the medium-range missiles, and where we could force Russia and a whole lot of other countries to help disarm. This is the dynamic that I am calling for at the Left instead of wearing the old shoes from the 1970s.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152728	It is perfectly correct to see that the Left is still away vertically towards the entire footnote period. We think it was absolutely shameful and we think it was definitely harmful to Danish interests. I think the Social Democratic Party has actually acknowledged this today, but we have to ask the Social Democrats about it. We in the Left have certainly not changed our position. We thought at the time that it was harmful. We still think it was harmful. On the contrary, I hope that today Denmark is somewhere else where there is no ambiguity about our strong and close ties with our allies, as unfortunately there was when there was a wrong majority in the Folketing, at least in terms of support for the footnote period. So it is correctly understood. We were against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152806	The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152807	Well, I agree with sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen in the analysis of who is the aggressive party in Europe. That's not what divides us. I just think that sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen should not be so afraid of democracy, in other words be so afraid that we are showing the strength of Western democracies. We will then have an open debate here. That it is obviously dangerous in itself, I understand on the Left, I think is a very little liberal point of view. That you could do the enemy's business? I can also hear here that Trump has not lived in vain. Now the rhetoric is almost taken over by Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen: the errand of the enemy, because in our Parliament we are discussing what shows the strength of democracy. How can the Left and Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is going to go out like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152853	Fortunately, I have not started using concepts such as fake news or anything else, because I would actually almost like to say about it that I should have said that the debate itself would be to do the business of the enemy. No, I said that if we went in and decided that Denmark should go alone and sign such a declaration, it would be to create division in NATO and thus also go Putin's errand. I welcome the debate. I always like to discuss foreign policy and security policy. I think that is only nice, and if we can get even more focus on the footnote period that Enhedslisten apparently wants, then I say: gladly, at any time. I would like to have such discussions. I think that would only be clear. I think we also need the Danish people to see how and how certain parties played different roles during the footnote period. So do not misunderstand me: debate is good; it is only the resolution itself that I think would be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152945	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122152946	Okay, then I'm trying to forget those comments that have been about that while they're sitting in the Duma discussing it, we're discussing this as if it were a problem in itself. Apparently, it isn't. If, then, the solution is that we should achieve some results in the NPT Treaty with this, what are the prospects for it? As I see it, there is a great risk that it will end up more like a jelly jar than where something really happens. So this UN initiative should be an attempt to set off a process in which we get rid of the nuclear weapons, and to refer to the NPT Treaty today is probably to refer to something in which there is little movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153022	You can call me indomitable optimist, but so am I. I really believe that the Biden administration is the right one both to put the necessary pressure on a country like Russia, but at the same time also to be able to negotiate some kind of continuation of the disarmament agreement, and that is where I have my optimism from. Maybe in six months, I'll be an old disappointed man. Then we must take the debate there, but so far I am still optimistic and actually believe that it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153048	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153114	I thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for the initiative, which I know has been put forward with the best of will, and I would also agree with them that a world without nuclear weapons would be wonderful. However, when we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to reject the proposal anyway, it is for that reason that, I think, we are in the real world and, from that position, I believe that any disarmament agreement would be of no consequence if the five permanent members of the UN Security Council were not with the UN Security Council or some of them. On the other hand, they are in the NPT non-proliferation agreement. The fact that the great powers are there is the one, but most important, reason why we cannot support the proposal. The second is that we are loyal supporters of NATO and that NATO is indeed the basis for Denmark's security as we see it. As long as there are nuclear weapons on earth, there is no other option than that NATO's strongest military powers, which are also Denmark's allies, have, of course, nuclear weapons for defence and deterrence, especially in the present, very worrying situation, where some powers, which we certainly do not want to have atomic weapons, either have these weapons or are in the process of developing them. The Treaty of NPT came into being four decades ago and has since stood as a means of disarmament, partly for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, and almost 200 states are involved. It would look weird if Denmark decided to withdraw from what is actually being done if one joins the other. On the other hand, as the government and a majority in the Folketing so desire, Denmark must continue to uphold the Treaty of NPT. The treaty promoted by the proposers has the name TPNW and has little support, and none of the five permanent members of the Security Council is most significant. And then I have to refer again to the real world by stating that if you want real results in this sensitive area, it is necessary to work quietly day by day without trumpet fanfares and fads in order to limit the number of nuclear weapons. This is also happening right now, when we are in the process of this discussion and, as was stated, a series of meetings between America and Russia has just begun in the so-called New START agreement, which Denmark supports. Here we need to agree on non-proliferation and a significant reduction in the number of nuclear weapons. Equally important is the need to tighten up further in order to reduce the risk of serious errors. The Danish People's Party agrees with the government in this matter and can also strongly support the Social Democratic proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153414	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first, Mr President. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153418	The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says that real results must be achieved quietly. How do we create new momentum in negotiations that have stalled? How can progress be made in a disarmament process which has resulted in more nuclear weapons in the world than we have ever had? The weapons are getting bigger and more dangerous, regardless of the fact that we have removed some of the old-fashioned weapons. We are still modernising and all countries, including those in NATO, will modernise their nuclear weapons so that they can have more explosive power and can be used faster and more efficiently and can achieve much, much faster to the goals they need to be used against. How can we call it progress and real results? I don't understand, sir. Søren Espersen. I don't understand anything else either. After all, we do not withdraw from the NPT because we are voting for a ban on nuclear weapons. On the contrary, the NPT is supported by such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153528	First of all, I would like to dispute this with the fact that the negotiations have stalled. We have just seen today that there are new advances between the United States and Russia. And the number of nuclear weapons is therefore important. It is important that it goes the right way, that the number goes down, and then it is absolutely crucial for our position that nuclear powers should be included. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. Then the rest of us can sit and agree on a lot, but if the nuclear powers do not want it, it has no effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153558	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153559	Will Mr. Søren Espersen does not agree with me that the explosive force on nuclear weapons has never been greater than it is now and that the process has not succeeded? That is one question. Yes, there are contacts, but it is not the case that the NPT includes all countries with nuclear weapons. There are a number of countries outside and there are countries under way to obtain their own nuclear weapons which are not covered by the NPT. So it's also the hole. It's not a safety net because we're going the right way. Iran we have talked a lot about, North Korea we have also talked a lot about, Israel still denies that they have nuclear weapons, although virtually everyone says they do. Well, there are also holes in the NPT. Why not take some steps so that we can increase dynamics, increase the process so that we really get to that goal, instead of just pretending we're talking? That is the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153651	But that is what I think we are really not going to do unless there are nuclear powers present in the negotiations. I would much rather have what is now going on in an initial debate between the United States and Russia, which is probably going on for a long time longer than I would like to participate in some club where what is going on is not really very binding. It is a signal policy, it does not go beyond that, except if you have nuclear powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153718	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153724	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Søren Espersen is quite right in saying that it would be very good if this treaty had the backing of the nuclear powers countries. And it would put the matter quite differently if they were on board. But that is probably the way to see this UN initiative, in other words to complement the initiatives that have been taken and where far too little is happening. And that is also why we are very aware in the proposal for adoption that we have put forward that we mention both the NPT and the New START negotiations. So these are extremely important areas, but what we are missing today is surely that some countries are going in and ratifying this Treaty. And then the pressure on those nuclear nations will eventually be so great that they can also be included in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153808	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153809	But, you know, a supplement is really • and I hope that's not going to sound derogatory • a talking club if there's nothing real on the table. So I repeat: I do not want to say that this is a bad thing. But I just want to say that you can have a talk about cognac and coffee and then agree on a lot of things, but the real thing but I just can't understand why we should use energy and energy on the other. It was said that it was something of dynamism; that it would create dynamism. Yes, but I'm not sure it's a positive dynamic. In other words, it is a negative dynamic if it is suddenly seen that Denmark is backing out of something that has been wholeheartedly supported so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153856	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153858	Well, I don't really see it as condescending when Mr. Søren Espersen says it's some kind of talking club, because that's what it might be. Let's just be completely open about it. Because if there is not enough support for it, it will end up being somewhere where you say the right things to each other without obligation. So that's pretty much true. But is that not exactly what has been the problem in the NPT negotiations, namely that it has also become more or less a talking club? 'Cause while you've been talking and it's been a little bit...
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153933	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122153934	But that will also be discussed. In other words, many years ago we started under Ronald Reagan and Gorbachev, I think it was. And I thought it was incredibly important that that beginning came. And you have just as quietly worked on that, but you do it quietly. What is actually proposed, if nuclear weapons are banned, is also like beating in a duvet. Because if the nuclear powers say they don't care what they've been sitting around and finding out after a long time of talk, then it's worth nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154010	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. There are no more brief comments. I'm just gonna have to get a drink, and then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left, who is getting ready. Thank you for that and welcome to the rapporteur of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154038	Nuclear weapons are one of the worst inventions that humanity has made, and we therefore welcome from the Radical Left any discussion on how to get rid of them, so thank the proposers. However, if this is to be a 'no' to the specific proposal, it is simply because we do not share the view of Enhedslisten and SF that accession to this Treaty will create a new dynamism, as Mr. Christian Juhl expressed it in the negotiations. It is probably our analysis that what is crucial to the progress of disarmament negotiations, when we look at historical experience and what we can say is that the empire we have behind us is when the countries that possess nuclear weapons are in a domestic and geopolitical situation, where we can create a positive dynamic and where we can strike a balance in the interests of reducing weapons. One might wish that it was the pressure of non-atomic states that it was the pressure of all the weak voices and voices in the world that made the impact here. It is not, because it is a tough power policy. That is why we believe that what we can best do on the Danish side is to maintain one track for the negotiations, namely the NPT, where everyone is involved, including the countries that have a weapons, and then increase the maximum pressure we can on all the countries that today have responsibility for a weapons, both those that are outside our own alliances and those that are within them. That is why we think it could be a blow to the air and, at worst, maybe also remove focus from what is the real task, namely to create a political dynamic where a political dynamic can be created: between those countries that have and store and use nuclear weapons in their political negotiations and signals. So, on that explanatory statement, we agree with the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur read out and, of course, we also attach importance to the fact that no other NATO countries have joined. However, the most important reason for us is that we do not really believe that it will create a new dynamic. On the contrary, we might fear that it will remove some focus from the track where, with Biden's accession, one might hope that a new dynamic could emerge right now, and that is why we do not see that the timing is completely optimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154313	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154318	I can well understand this hesitation in believing in a new initiative. Well, it's a little difficult with these complaining trothorns from the outside in the background (Martin Lidegaard Yes, it's hard). Anyway, what does Mr. Martin Lidegaard tells us about the situation we have been looking at for many years now, when negotiations have been formally held, and where the number of warheads has also been negotiated, but where the total explosive force has only been greatly increased? So to it, like having your faith in, like Mr. Martin Lidegaard obviously has it, that is to say, to have faith that it will be in the NPT negotiations or in the New START negotiations that things are going to happen, I would say: can we all hope that things with Biden as President will be different, but is it not a little unlikely, so that we should not put all our weights in the weight bowl that has to do with the NPT negotiations, when the world can now see a massive increase in nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154414	Well, I'm not gonna stand here and play Comic Ali. It goes the wrong way; anyone can see that. That is also why I welcome the discussion. I do not think that this is due to the fact that Denmark and others have not joined another declaration, another piece of paper, yet another treaty that should be done. I think this is because the world's nuclear powers do not have the will to disarm. Putin doesn't have the will, China doesn't have the will, Trump didn't have the will; that's the problem, not a new paper or a new treaty, i.e. the way I see it. That is why it is a question, we can say, of convincing the superpowers, some of whom are our allies, while others may potentially become our enemies, that this must happen. That is where I think the political focus should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154501	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154503	Well, there may be very good arguments for that, but yet I have to ask: what happened to the Radical Left's delight in the UN system? It's the United Nations that's behind this. So you meet an initiative from the UN that you have something else, even though it does not work, actually far from it; things are going wrong too. In other words, when the UN takes an initiative, we do not agree to it either, because we believe even less in it, instead of saying what else we had a tradition for the Radicals: when it is the UN that is behind something, we give it a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154535	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154537	In other words, the Treaty of NPT is now firmly established in the United Nations. For us this is not at all about, I would have said that it is because it is in the United Nations, but it is not everything that should come from the United Nations that per year. automatic is good, just as not everything that comes from the European Union is good or anything that comes from NATO that is good. It cannot be said that because something is initiated by or born in a particular organization, it is per. definition right and will lead to the right place. I have great sympathy for the proposal. I just have the merit of seeing that it could make a difference, and I fear perhaps a little that it can take away the focus from where negotiations are going and should be held, namely in the context of the Treaty that everyone is part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154618	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154620	I would also like to follow the UN lead: can the rapporteur say when we have recently boycotted negotiations in the UN and refused to vote on a UN resolution in which 122 countries, two thirds of all the world's countries, voted in favour in 2017? It is an atypical situation, a very atypical situation. We usually say that we will try to have influence, but this time we have boycotted the negotiations. We have refused to vote, at all, in the Chamber, at the United Nations. That's a new policy. I remember, then, that the Radical Left was behind essential parts of the footnote policy: the very best things: the removal of medium-range missiles, the no to nuclear weapons on Danish soil, the Nordics as a nuclear-free zone, etc. At that time, we did so because we knew it was a real idea, even if it could disrupt other negotiations and even if it could create a bit of a debate in NATO, but we knew that it was important in this situation to try to bring forward something that could bring things forward and was consistent with our people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154726	I do not think we can really compare the situation in the 1970s and 1980s with the situation we have today. This is a completely different geopolitical situation we are in. At that time we had a cold war between two bipolar systems, and today we have a multipolar world order and a far, far more complex picture that requires the participation and commitment of far more people. I actually agree that the whole boycotting of votes is nonsense. You might as well come and vote and express your opinion. That is my view, as it were. But if I had been here, I would have had the same view as I have today, namely that the problem is not that there is not enough fora to negotiate here. After all, there are plenty of fora, and in the proposal for adoption put forward by the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution we can see that they are five or six or seven? But that has not solved a problem. So it is not there in relation to the setting up of a new forum that the shoe prints. Let's be honest. Where the shoe is pressed is whether there is political will and a balance in geopolitics that can make it happen. Let us concentrate on this instead of creating more fora and more paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154827	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154827-2	No, but we are bound to find initiatives that can bring things forward when the rapporteur himself says that the non-proliferation negotiations are nothing to shout for at the moment. The rapporteur also said: yes, and if it had been the non-nuclear weapons-bearing countries that wanted to speak. This is precisely the case here: 122 countries voted in favour in the UN and 51 of them have already ratified. The minister has been scolding that these are countries without nuclear weapons. It is precisely those countries that are crying out that they do not want nuclear weapons, they do not like what they are afraid of the threat they are giving.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154907	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154908	I totally agree with that. My point is that I don't think it has such an effect that the countries that don't have "a" weapons are shouting at those who have. I think it will have a greater effect if we are able, within our respective alliances, to create the political dynamic needed to make something happen in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154928	There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, but there is just a despriting. Thank you. There's a garbage can in the back. Then we would like to welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122154948	Yeah, it's a great time when it's okay to smell like alcohol and be negative. But let me be clear straight away: SF supports Denmark's membership of NATO. It is the alliance which today best guarantees Denmark's sovereignty. But we are not on the back of everything that NATO means and does. We are not doing this in relation to the demand for armaments in all countries, nor in relation to the attitude towards nuclear weapons. Even if he isn't sitting there, I guess one way or another you could call Joe Biden's presidency a kind of third term with Obama. Obama had as a policy that we, as a whole, should destroy the arsenal of nuclear weapons, which we had developed from equal parts fear and contempt for each other, those weapons which can, at short notice, wipe out all mankind from the face of the earth. Fortunately, the great and devastating war is not as close as in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, but on the other hand there are many tactical nuclear weapons and lurks. Many security experts believe that there is in fact a great risk to them, in relation to both accidents and hostile actions. Our little peace-loving country must send the signal that we do not accept the existence of such weapons. Unfortunately, at Obama much was the most talk about a better world, while the nuclear powers were really arming up, and while the international organizations were constantly applauding each other. A new opinion poll by YouGov today demonstrates that the long-standing wide-ranging resistance to nuclear weapons remains pronounced. And even if the Treaty has received no more attention here in Denmark at least, it turns out that 78%. It is considered that Denmark should join it, 7%. Says no, and 16%. It is precisely today, 22 January, that is a day of celebration, because this is the day when the UN Treaty against nuclear weapons is being marked globally. The Treaty prohibits the development, production, testing, testing, storage, transfer and use or threats to the use of nuclear weapons. But are there not a number of other agreements and treaties that we can use? We hear all the time. Yes, but there isn't much going on in those negotiations. Of course, the number of warheads can be reduced, but the explosive force has been greatly increased. For approx. Twelve years ago, The Wall Street Journal brought a chronicle that was argued to eliminate all nuclear weapons. It is not so spectacular in itself, but it was the circle of writers perhaps, for the authors were Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, William Perry and Sam Nunn, four legendary Cold Warriors. The arms race continues, but now at least 51 countries have ratified the Treaty, and I think it would be a good thing if Denmark followed suit. For nuclear weapons must not just be things that you do not like; they must be banned, and 120 countries in the UN have supported that. Not only that, 56 former State, Foreign and Defence Ministers are calling for support for the Treaty, including Kjeld Olesen and Mogens Lykketoft. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122155346	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments, and then we should welcome Conservatives' rapporteur. Is Mr. Marcus Knuth present? He was just here. It is actually the case that we have to see if we can get to him, otherwise it will be the Foreign Minister. Well, it's gonna take a while. Then I have to say that we must welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Nor is there anyone from New Citizens and LA at first sight. Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122155446	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs for the good debate, I think we have today. Despite differences of opinion on means, we are in complete agreement on the objective we are all working for, in other words, a world without nuclear weapons. It must also be said that nuclear disarmament is an important issue which deserves our attention, not least in a situation where the security policy landscape is sharpened, what more have been mentioned, and old agreements on disarmament and arms control crumble between our hands. I also welcome the fact that, although the parties of the Folketing do not fully agree on the road to nuclear disarmament, we agree on the objective and I think that is the most important thing. The government's line is clear, and I am not going to repeat it in every detail, but to emphasise that, as I said, we support the ultimate goal of a world without nuclear weapons. But the ban treaty does not give us the credible road to nuclear disarmament. Denmark is firmly anchored in NATO and shares NATO's policy on nuclear weapons, and we must safeguard the NPT as the cornerstone of nuclear disarmament, and I am pleased that there is broad support for it among the parliamentary parties. Then I think I have to say something about the fact that it is just as problematic that the NPT, i.e. the Non-Proliferation Treaty, has had no impact on disarmament in the world. That is how one could understand it when one listens to the proposers. I'd like to arrest that point of view. During its 50-year lifetime of universal acceptance, the NPT has provided the framework for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament, and an essential objective has been to avoid the emergence of new nuclear powers. Similarly, the nuclear powers have agreed to the objective of total disarmament under strict and effective international control as a result of Article 6 of the NPT. But this is a long and awesome move. The NPT has helped to form the forum where nuclear disarmament is discussed in good faith. And that is among other things. In view of the fact that the essential agreements on disarmament between the United States and Russia must be seen, what several have also mentioned. In a sense, the NPT has been the backdrop for agreements such as New START, where we also see that the new Biden administration is ready here on 15 February, when the agreement expires, to look at the extension of the INF Treaty, which unfortunately has fallen to the ground, and the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, i.e. the CTBT. And under the NPT, we should also remember that a number of countries, including South Africa, but also former Soviet republics such as Ukraine and Kazakhstan and Belarus, have abandoned their nuclear weapons. And, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, since the end of the Cold War, the United States has reduced its arsenal from 30,000 warheads to 1,550 as agreed at New START. It is true that the individual warhead may have become more powerful, but it is a significant disarmament which is worth taking into account in this context. But it is equally clear that the security policy environment must be present in order for agreements of this kind to be reached in practice. In other words, reciprocity and verification are necessary conditions for agreeing reductions, otherwise nothing will happen. Otherwise, it'll just be something on a paper that doesn't make a real difference in the world. Then there is something I would also like to say about, and that is in relation to the NPT in the future. It is clear that we are in a tighter security policy environment. I think we can all see that. So what is it that the government wants to do in the NPT review conference? Of course, we intend to participate actively in our diplomatic work. The overall aim is to strengthen and support the NPT as the cornerstone of nuclear disarmament. Among other things: the government has supported the so-called Stockholm Initiative. The initiative has 16 members, including NATO members Germany and the Netherlands. The initiative calls, among other things, for: the nuclear powers to reduce their arsenals and refer to the importance of stopping tests and stopping the production of material for use in nuclear weapons. A number of confidence-building measures are proposed to help reduce risks. This applies, among other things, to: I would like to make a few comments on the subject of nuclear weapons, and on the importance of nuclear weapons in the security policies and doctrines of the nuclear powers. Finally, there are a number of very concrete realistic proposals for improved crisis communication between the nuclear powers by establishing so-called red telephones and risk reduction centres. The many proposals put forward by the initiative are realistic, feasible and capable of effectively reducing the risk of nuclear weapons, including the risk of error. And I think it's worth taking with me. In addition, Denmark is part of the group of countries, the Vienna Group of Ten, which Mr. Christian Juhl also referred to earlier, which helps to support the NPT process with proposals in the field of non-proliferation and peaceful use of nuclear energy. The initiative has existed for a number of years. Finally, Denmark is also part of the series of EU contributions made during the conference and discussed between the Member States. These efforts will make a realistic contribution to strengthening the NPT process, thereby helping to increase security for all. So I just want to make this clear because it sounds like we have to give up the NPT completely. No, that is the way to go and we will not risk cooperation in the NPT by joining a ban treaty in which no nuclear powers are members and which risks undermining the important work of the NPT. It is about strengthening the Treaty of NPT and the mechanisms and frameworks that exist there. That is the real way to a world without nuclear weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160040	There are a few brief comments. Thanks for the speech. Mr President, first of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160047	Well, we all agree that this treaty cannot stand alone. I just think that the problem for the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that other treaties are then referred to where little is happening either. When the Foreign Minister says that the NPT has actually proved itself to be disarmament and prevent more countries from having nuclear weapons, it is notoriously wrong. Since the Treaty of NPT was drawn up, several countries have been given weapons. So it didn't work. It is true that it may have worked for countries that could have done it and did not do it anyway, but we can see that more countries have come into being as nuclear countries. Then you can say that there is not so much about rusting down the number of warheads when you increase the power. Overall, we have failed either to prevent more countries from getting nuclear weapons or to prevent arms build-up. Because that's what's happened. So it is in this context that it could be an objective for the United Nations to establish a new treaty system which would then become part of the international conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160151	I don't recognize that presentation. I am absolutely convinced of the opposite, sir. Karsten Hønge that the NPT has had a major and concrete impact on non-proliferation and disarmament in relation to nuclear weapons. It is true that countries which have not signed the NPT have not complied with the rules either. But it is notable that countries such as South Africa and Ukraine, which I mentioned had nuclear weapons, have abandoned them as part of the NPT. So I think it is very dangerous if we go in and degrade really important cooperation, which lies in the NPT, which is the cornerstone of nuclear disarmament. Instead, it is important that we equip ourselves to use a word that fits in the debate, this effort for disarmament, and that is where the government is, moreover, together with the other NATO countries, who are also rejecting the fact that we should adhere to the ban treaty because, unfortunately, it has the consequence that it will actually weaken our disarmament work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160251	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160252	Now we should not make the differences bigger than they are. I certainly also recognise the importance of the NPT. It was more in relation to whether it was the only instrument and the only way, because they should now have prevented the proliferation of nuclear weapons and created disarmament. That was in relation to what I said, that they didn't live up to that. I can hope that things will improve, but that is not because history is too good, but it is also true, as the Foreign Minister says, that it has, of course, been a good tool in a number of contexts. It's clear, and we shouldn't disagree on that. I think it could just be an idea here to back the 120 countries that voted for the 51 countries that ratified.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160330	We're having a rather strange debate because I think we, sir. Karsten Hønge and I, completely share the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. That is the way to debate. There I have to say that I agree with a ban treaty which none of the present nuclear powers has signed up to, and that this should be the way towards a world where there are more nuclear powers giving up nuclear weapons is not compatible. But the nuclear powers have joined the NPT, and we must use that framework to ensure that we have real disarmament. So I really hope that SF will also support that line.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160407	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160411	I would first like to ask the Minister not to use too many straws when he talks about our proposal. Paragraph 1, who has said that the NPT has no meaning? We have said that this could be a good addition to the NPT and point 2, yes, it sounds like we have to give up the NPT who did say that? Nobody has. Is it a lack of good arguments that makes the Minister think that we should put arguments in our shoes? No, it's no good, sir. Minister. Everything has started with an initiative that could be laughed at at the time it was taken, including the NPT. Few countries in a talking club have mentioned in our proposal the initiatives mentioned by the Minister himself. But the Social Democrats and the Left have mentioned only one thing: the NPT. This means that they are very, very focused on one No, there are many solutions. And there's also a new one that we'd like to bring with us now. So we include instead of excluding. Could the Minister not also be able to make himself actually do so when he mentions this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160527	Thank you! The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160528	No, sir. Christian Juhl. That's what Mr. Christian Juhl proposes to join the ban treaty is not a supplement to the NPT. What it will risk doing is undermining the work of the NPT. We do not want that. We want to use the NPT as I understand that Mr. Christian Juhl and also Mr. Karsten Hønge actually acknowledges has made a difference and strengthen the work. For that is where in the real world there is a reduction in the number of nuclear weapons and hopefully in the long term a world without nuclear weapons. That is the ultimate goal for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160603	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160603-2	The NPT has its shortcomings. We have all acknowledged this; the Minister has done so; the Left has done so; the Socialists have done so. We can even say that it also has its shortcomings, by the fact that there are almost as many new nuclear powers outside the NPT agreements as there are within them; we do not really have any control over some of them. And the weapons are so easy today that you don't even have to be a state to produce such a weapon. I hope the Minister can see that he has mentioned three of them himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160638-2	Yes, but in relation to the initiatives that were intended to supplement the Non-Proliferation Treaty, that is, the Ban Treaty, Mr. I understand that the countries which have nuclear weapons and which are not part of the NPT will then be able to address, as I understand it, by joining the ban treaty. However, none of the countries that have nuclear weapons will agree to the ban treaty. So it just doesn't make sense. No, I am sorry to say this, but it is important that we strengthen the framework of the NPT together with like-minded countries. That is the way to real disarmament in the real world, and that is what we want from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160714	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Are you gonna booze 'cause we got another round? And that's not because I'm gonna call on the whole parliament here and all the rapporteurs to take another round, but we just have another round with Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. When it is another round, the speaking time is slightly shortened, so it is 3 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160734	I am sorry that I was just gone a moment ago, and I also regret the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I know the Secretary of State is moving on. I will follow Mr Churchill's advice that a short speech is a good speech and say that, like the Foreign Minister and most other speakers here, we naturally support the NPT Treaty, not least because that is where the five recognized nuclear powers are. We fear that joining the 2017 agreement will not make sense because that is not where the nuclear powers are. So we are entering into the adoption text which the Social Democrats read out at the beginning of the debate and then moving on to the Foreign Minister. Imagine if all the speeches in the Folketing could be so short. That would save us a lot of time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160818	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. That was exemplary, and I can introduce it because I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is busy, that it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Juhl, who has just made a final comment. It's five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122160847	Yes, it is usually polite to say thank you for the debate. Three minutes we usually have, and I'll stay within them. That fg. President It has been possible to have the first debate in the Assembly on nuclear weapons, as far as I could search the annals, for 19 years we have had it in committee a few times. That is a good thing, and I understand that others think so. There is agreement among the parties that the ultimate goal is a world without nuclear weapons, and I think that is also extremely positive. There is not one party that has spoken against it. Some people have thought that we should wait until there is a situation where all countries are involved before we take that step. I also sense that there is a broad view that the disarmament process is going too slowly and that something more needs to be done, and I have also noted that the Minister has said today that he will take some initiatives in connection with New START, and that is also positive. How we get to a world without nuclear weapons, we do not quite agree, at least right now. Those of us who have raised the question debate believe that we should use all the tools available, including the new tool for which non-atomic countries have taken the initiative first and foremost. It is, of course, part of the democracy of the United Nations that all countries vote with one voice, and that is why it is saying that if the major nuclear-bearing countries are not included, then we cannot take it seriously, rather unfairly towards two thirds of the world's countries. However, there is no majority in the Folketing for Denmark to ratify the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, just as we have banned other weapons of mass destruction, at least not today, when, according to the UN procedure, the Treaty enters into force thanks to 51 countries that have taken the lead and have shown the way. I am quite sure that other countries will follow and that one day Denmark too will join, and I also hope that Denmark will become one of the first NATO countries to shake off fear and take the first steps, as we did in the 1980s, when we could see an opportunity to be benchmarking and the opportunity to move developments in the right direction. What we are practicing here in the Folketing is what we call the rule of the people, and I hope that once again the people will help the more foot-drawn colleagues on the road to a ban on nuclear weapons. They have done so many times before in the field of peace and disarmament, and in this context I would like to say that I am happy to recall the period of many footnotes and exceptions. It was an optimistic time when extensive popular movements in both the East and the West I personally held a peace festival in Silkeborg together with Anker Jørgensen on these very issues and helped prevent the deployment of Eastern and Western midrange rockets in Europe and made the world a safer place to live. It was in those years that I really got an appetite to get involved in politics. There are probably some who think it was a shame that I interfered with it, but I did, and I think it is a tremendously good ballast to have in my adult life. Perhaps it is already the case that there are more people who believe that we should ratify it, and I can at least understand the measurement that came this morning that we must ratify it, even if it creates debate in NATO. I still remember the Russian soldier who refused to send nuclear missiles, and he did not come from that, but the announcement of Western rockets on the way to Russia was due to a technical error and he became a hero, also in the United States, and that is what he thinks. I am thinking, with sweat on my forehead, that right now there are 2 000 of the current nuclear weapons that are constantly ready to fire and that in a number of countries there is one person who can decide only when to press the red button, even if it is due to a technical error. It was much better to cut off the connection to the weapons, destroy them and use the money for something else. Once again, I would appeal to the government to allow independent experts to examine the international aspects of both being a NATO member and to support the new treaty so that we can at least clarify this issue. We have not received an answer. We have had some allegations today about this, and I think we should have it in place. So there I would just like to appeal to you to try to provide a proper basis, as has been done in Norway. I would like to thank both on behalf of the SF and on my own behalf for the debate. I would urge that 19 years should not pass before we have the next discussions on how to remove the world's most dangerous weapons, and I hope that the next discussion will be on the basis that there is But thank you all for the debate. I can see that there are so many left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122161352	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was exactly five minutes, so it was good that the rapporteur had five minutes. So it was fine. And I don't think anyone here in the Folketing thinks it's too bad that Mr. Christian Juhl is a member of the Folketing. So it's for sure. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210122161413	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 26 January 2021 at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
