ParlaMint-DK_20211007090003	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 5 October 2021, it was decided that the management of the business of the Ministry of Employment from 9 October 2021 until 10 December 2021 will be entrusted to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 5 October 2021 provides that the management of the business of the Ministry of Employment from 9 October 2021 until 10 December 2021 will be entrusted to Mattias Tesfaye, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Mette Frederiksen Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 34 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Vocational Training, the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions and various other laws. Bill No. L 35 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on primary education. Bill No. L 36 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Schools, the Law on Free Schools and Private Primary Schools, etc., the Law on Social Services and the Law on Child and Youth Benefits). Bill No. L 37 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on upper secondary education. Bill No. L 38 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Municipal International Primary Schools. Bill No. L 39 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill No. L 40 (Proposal for a law amending the Food Law. Bill No. L 41 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the keeping of animals. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 42 (Proposal for a law amending the law on Danish citizenship and repealing the law on the right of birth test of 2015. Bill No. 43 (Proposal for a law on temporary residence permits for persons who have assisted Danish authorities in Afghanistan, etc.). Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 44 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Experimental Scheme of Medical Cannabis. Bill No. 45 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on medicinal products, the Law on Pharmacy and the Law on Health. Trine Torp (SF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Request no. F 6 (Will the Minister, as a prelude to the negotiations on a new 10-year plan for psychiatry, indicate whether the government has clear objectives in relation to the use of new therapies in psychiatry and to the strengthening of mental health in order to strengthen humanisation, among other things. via multiple drug-free treatment offers, by reducing the use of compulsion that patients do not want, and by using empowerment and recovery in (after) treatment?). Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF), Britt Bager (KF) and others.: Question No. F 7 (What does the Minister intend to do about the obvious challenges faced by the Danish media, large and small, old and new, due to technological and international media development, to take initiatives to strengthen the democratic conversation, critical public and quality journalism both locally, regionally and nationally?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Defence (Trine Bramsen) has informed me that she wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on the Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. R 5). The statement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 14 October 2021. I shall then inform you that today's opening debate will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007090304	Member of the Folketing Mette Gjerskov (S) applied for leave from 7 October 2021 cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a), while Signe Munk (SF) applied for leave from 7 October, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007090340	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the 3rd Deputy for the Social Democratic Party of Zealand's Grand District, Brian Bressendorff, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 7 October 2021 on the occasion of Mette Gjerskov's leave. It should be noted that the first and second substitutes did not wish to join. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Socialist People's Party in Vestjyllands Storkreds, Karsten Filsø, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 7 October 2021 on the occasion of Signe Munk's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007090421	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 119 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007090454	I must point out that we have a long, hard day ahead of us. It is the case that the debate takes place in such a way that the rapporteurs have 10 minutes and then 45 minutes for short remarks. We shall begin with the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Now we need a little quiet in the Chamber, including from the ranks of ministers. Thank you. Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007090525	Thank you. China has announced to the world that their CO2 Airbus, the world's largest aircraft manufacturer, has announced that all of their medium-range aircraft will fly on electrofuels by 2035. Mærsk, which is Danish but is also the world's largest container company, will invest 9 billion. kr. in eight new giant ships that can sail on green methanol. In Denmark, it is likely that next month we will cross the green finish line, which is about more new green cars being sold than new black cars being sold. Worldwide among the world's largest companies, the movement is in progress. The tectonic plates are moving. It is still not fast enough, but the movement is clear, the movement is green. Denmark's CO2 emissions account for approx. 0,1% or 1 percent of the world's emissions. In isolation and in a global climate perspective, the Danish reduction contribution therefore corresponds to trying to put out a California forest fire with my daughter's toy water can unless our technological progress, our know-how, our green policy decisions are exported and thus set up the green pace in the world, so that the movement that has started is higher in gear. India, which in 2028 overtakes China as the most populous nation in the world, has entered into a far-reaching strategic green partnership with Denmark, a partnership that will place us in a special position to deliver the green solutions that India is looking for and which the whole world is looking for. This is an excellent example of Danish international leadership moving the global green transition much further than our one permeable emissions of CO2 This is an example of our green transition giving us a stronger voice in the world community. This is an example of making a green global difference. With our decisions, we have shown that with the green transition we can create growth, new green jobs, can open up new export adventures and make Denmark both richer and stronger and thus future-proof our welfare society, while at the same time implementing the green transition, that we can complete the green transition without compromising social cohesion, without undermining welfare, without getting yellow vests on the Palace Square. The green transition is urgently needed. We no longer need to look down long in IPCC reports to understand climate change. We can look out the window. Scenarios have become reality. People are often affected far away. This summer, the consequences of climate change hit incredibly close with the floods in Germany and Belgium. No matter where the consequences are, it's a tragedy every single time. I think it can be concluded that the fact that Denmark is at the forefront of the green transition is probably our most important contribution to the rest of the world in our generation. Of course, if we are to maintain and expand our position as a green power in the coming years, it will require investment. There is no green conversion without skilled skilled workers, there is no green conversion without electricians, there is no green conversion without engineers, just as there will be no green quantum leaps if business does not invest massively in new green technology. This is why with the reform programme Denmark has proposed to maintain and permanence the research and development allowance of 130 per cent. and to invest 1 million. kr. further in the green transition. That is why, with the abolition of the re-priority contribution and the training ceiling, together with significant investments, we have raised the education and training area by more than 4 billion. kr. kr., if we by a majority in this room take responsibility and implement and adopt the reform programme In other words, it is a massive increase in the Danes' competences, and thus it is also an investment in the growth of the future, in the jobs of the future and in the green transition. Politics makes a difference. We have shown this in the area of climate change, and we have also proved this in the vast areas of welfare. In the Social Democratic Party we said clearly to the Danes that we would give priority to welfare, and we have done so from day one. We have invested in our health with 1,000 more nurses, so there will be more time to care for the individual we have prioritised 600 million. kr. In the case of psychiatry, the smallest children receive more care in the day-care institutions with minimum standards, the school children receive more teachers with investment in the primary school of 800 million. kr., and our older fellow citizens will experience a better and more dignified old age with the extra 0.5 million. kr., we've set aside for the area. In addition, we can add that we have made three economic agreements with municipalities and regions. These are three agreements which together increase welfare more than the ten previously managed. We will provide security for our welfare. We will keep our hands under welfare, put a plug in the eternal savings and lay a bottom by law, a welfare law. It is a welfare law in which we guarantee that, as a minimum, there will be as much money as there is today for the welfare of the individual when, fortunately, there will be more elderly people and more children in the future. It is, I think, striking that the great opposition party, the Left, is no longer involved in the fact that they have packed up their welfare vows from the election campaign. I can't believe that it's time for the ultimate demands to be made before you're ready to just put a bottom under welfare. After all, we should not tell anyone that it is flowing with milk and honey in the public sector and that all the problems have been solved, so far from it. Many of our employees in the near welfare continue to run too fast. There is too little time for the child, for the patient and for the resident: for the Dane. There are still too many places in the country where it is too far for treatment. There are still too many places in Denmark where it is difficult to get a doctor. There are still too many places in the country where education is too far away. But we're on it. We're on it, and there's still a lot we'd like to do. Welfare must be strengthened and it must be freed from bureaucracy. Sometimes we have discussions with each other about how things are going with the people's regime. Is there too much bullshit, can we work together, or is there Christiansborg in it? I have never been more optimistic on behalf of the people's regime than I am today. We've dealt with the corona crisis together. 91 out of the 94 agreements we made under corona agreements that ensured that we got through the crisis well, both healthally and financially, are made widely across the middle. Late Monday evening, less than 24 hours before the Prime Minister gave his opening speech, we landed a comprehensive and ambitious agreement on a green conversion of agriculture. I read in this connection that one of our former colleagues, Mr. Kristian Jensen quoted his Secretary-General as saying that the only thing required for a politician to declare an agreement to be historic is that the person himself is involved in it. Nevertheless, I will not hesitate for a single second to call an agreement between almost all the parties of the Folketing, which shows the way to how Danish agriculture can reduce its emissions by up to 7.4 million. It was historic. We showed the people's rule on that night together from its very best side. I believe that the road to less politicians in Denmark goes over many more evenings like that on Monday. Thank you for the floor. Then I would like to read out a text for adoption. On behalf of the parties Social Democratic Party, Socialist People's Party, Radicals, Enhedslisten, Alternativet and Christian Democrats, I have to put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Danish economy is doing well and that public finances are under control. A responsible and socially fair economic policy must be pursued in the forthcoming Assembly, which will bring more people into work, which will not jeopardise the recovery and which will develop Denmark in a greener and fairer direction. This requires investment in education, jobs, the green transition, increased employment and welfare. At the same time, efforts must be made to reduce economic inequality and to combat child poverty. The Danish Parliament will already adopt in the coming session new and important steps to bring Denmark even closer to the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50-54 per cent. already in 2025 and by 70%. in 2030. The parties welcome the broad cooperation that has influenced the management of the Corona crisis and endeavour to continue constructive cooperation. • V 1).
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091607	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. We now have 45 minutes for short remarks and we start with Mrs Sophie Løhde, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091621	I would like to thank you very much for a fine speech by the rapporteur, although I must also congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that the Left has not packed up any welfare promise. We just believe, unlike the Social Democrats, that the money must be made before it can be used. But we know that is a terrible bourgeois and old-fashioned thing if you ask the Prime Minister of the country and worry about where the money will come from. In this context, I would really like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether, according to the Socialist Group, it is an expression of being business-friendly that a government raises taxes and charges by more than 12 billion. It is a fact that more than 10,000 people are being withdrawn from the labour market and, moreover, new burdens are being placed on business. Is it business-friendly from the point of view of the Socialist rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091709	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091713	So it's interesting to hear the Left here. In the election campaign, there were no limits to the Left ready with the money; that was clear speech, a clear promise to the Danes. Now suddenly comes here where the strings are to be cut and we are about to deliver on the welfare promise that you helped to give the Danes all sorts of ultimate demands that you know there is no support for. After all, there is not even support in the blue block for the rigid tax freeze, which puts the Left outside the police agreement and other important agreements. There's no backup. Furthermore, the Liberal Party itself was opposed to the proposal for a law on prosperity put forward by the new citizens in April. So it has to be said that when the Danes asked, the message was that the Left was ready to hold hands under welfare, but when we have to deliver on it, you can't see Left for just shoe soles. It's a huge failure... a huge failure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091802	Mrs. Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091805	Now I know that this is the first time the rapporteur has been here as a political rapporteur, even as a temporary political rapporteur, but I actually asked a question, and it would be nice to have an answer to that. But I fully agree that the Social Democrats think it is bourgeois and old-fashioned to stand on the idea that money must be made before it can be used. But we are proud of that in the Left, and that is why it is of course also our starting point when we have to secure the money for children, for the elderly, for our health care services. They must be earned before you can promise someone that they will come too. But now I am trying to ask my question again: according to the Social Democratic Party, is it an expression of a business-friendly policy to raise taxes, taxes and charges by more than 12 billion. kr. and pull 10,000 people out of the labour market? Is that business-friendly yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091850	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091853	We are fully ready to pursue an economic policy that ensures that we are able to finance our welfare societies. We have proved this during the corona crisis. We have one of the lowest levels of debt in the world; the economy rushes out there thanks to the economic policy which the Social Democrats have led, fortunately, in many cases together with a broad majority. So we're ready to finance welfare. And, of course, we are currently in the process of an important reform trail in which we have to negotiate to ensure the future of welfare. But then I would say that many of the tax changes that have been made have been made together with the Left and Conservatives. And we are pleased that with the increase in cigarette prices, for example, we are causing more young people not to smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091930	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007091938	Earlier this year the Prime Minister said the following: "Excuse me, but sometimes the questions about IS sound like people have been on vacation. So, it is people who have joined the Islamic State, the caliphate, perhaps have been involved in armed opposition to the democratic world including Denmark. They have turned their backs on Denmark. And they have nothing to do in Denmark anymore. So: you have nothing How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that the rapporteur's party now, despite the fact that these people have nothing to do in Denmark anymore, has actively taken them from Syria to Denmark, that is to say the people who have turned their backs on Denmark, those who have nothing to do in Denmark anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092019	I agree with the Prime Minister that these people have turned their backs on Denmark. I find it hard on the platform today to find words for my abhorrence in relation to those people. These are people who have exposed Kurds, Yazidi women, Western armed forces to the worst possible crimes. I miss words to describe my abhorrence of those people. But we set up a task force in broad cooperation here in the Danish Parliament and together with several bourgeois parties a task force to look at what we could do to help the children who have come into contact, because these foreign fighters have behaved so utterly unbelievable and joined a terrorist movement. And when we set up the task force, we asked PET: What is really the most sensible thing to do in terms of the security of the empire? And that is why we have ended up saying that in relation to all the people where we can take citizenship away from them because they have dual citizenship, we do so. But with regard to the group which only has Danish citizenship, the report from PET was that the best thing we could do in relation to Danish security was to take them home. And that is why we have done what we have done; it was the responsible thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092126	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092129	In fact, now one of the three women has been brought to Denmark, who has dual citizenship. So how will the rapporteur explain that someone is being taken to Denmark who has dual nationality and has not been deprived of Danish nationality so that he should not be here? After all, a person has also been brought here who has dual citizenship. My second question is: will the rapporteur ensure that these children are now removed from these mothers? If we agree that these mothers have joined a regime which is so brave that they really have values so far away from such a general philosophy in a democratic society, will the rapporteur argue that those children should of course not be with their mothers? For now, the fight has begun in relation to the fact that they may have to be held under special conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092208	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092211	The foreign fighters who return home must be prosecuted in accordance with the strictest possible clauses. However, it is now up to the authorities and the courts to decide how they should be treated by the judicial system and, therefore, what the further course should be for them and for their children. It is a common approach in a legal system. Then it is also the case that the rapporteur is right that one of those who has come to Denmark has dual citizenship. However, the rapporteur will also be aware that this was not the information the government had when we decided to help the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092246	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092252	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Charlotte is a midwife, and recently she showed a picture on Facebook where you could see that on their roster there was only one midwife at work in a large maternity ward. She was simply the only one, and she was even a substitute, for being a substitute worker pays better than being a permanent employee. The next day, Charlotte didn't have a job anymore. I think there are two challenges in the very history that I would like the rapporteur to address, on the one hand, whether this is a management crisis and, on the other hand, whether the management has got too good a sense when it is the case that it is possible to opt out of a midwife just because it expresses its criticism of the conditions in the field of food. But most importantly, in reality, it also shows a picture of the great challenges that exist in the maternity wards around us. What will the Social Democratic Party do to improve conditions for the feeding and for the midwives?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092353	Thank you for the question from the rapporteur. I think it is a good question and an important question, and I think that, as with the rapporteur, it has also made a very, very profound impression on many others in this House to read Charlotte's story from the maternity ward, also because most of us have had our greatest moment, including myself, at exactly the same time. So there you really want those who work there to be well. I think that story bears witness to the fact that there is a challenge at birth that we must have dealt with, and that is why I am also concerned about the problem. And what is perhaps even more important, I have also been able to read that our Minister for Health has clearly recognised that we have a challenge here, and he has also clearly said that if the regions make wishes in this area, also of an economic nature, then they are willing to talk about it. However, that does not change the fact that we also have a challenge in terms of management. One thing, then, is that the funds must keep up, otherwise we can forget it, but it is also a question of how we organise work in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092453	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092456	But that is precisely the challenge, because the system is such that we have to hear it from the managements if it is the case that there are challenges with standards around us. But if you shut down the critical employees, it will be really, really difficult for us to hear what is actually going on. Nevertheless, I note that during the last year the Social Democratic Party has just supported parents and midwives in order to improve the conditions in the maternity departments, and there is no proposal in the Social Democratic Finance Bill for this improvement. How does the Social Democratic Party plan to solve this huge problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092532	I would like to say, of course, without being able to go into the specific case, because I do not know the circumstances of the Social Democratic Party as to whether the public employees are able to express their views on their working conditions. It's important. Then it is not quite right that we do not have an initiative in our draft budget in relation to this problem. After all, the Finance Act is also the agreement we make with the regions, where, year after year, we have made improvements to the public sector and therefore also to health care. So, when we raise the economy of the regions, we also ensure better conditions in the way of food, and we have done so three times in a row. But the problem has not been resolved, and I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092602	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092610	Thank you to the rapporteur for a green speech today too. It is just good to hear about all the objectives in the world that are so important and how we are leading the way. Shouldn't we be doing that in a little more ways? The climate partnership for aviation itself has proposed a green aviation fund funded by a climate contribution to the air ticket, and the funds must go to develop and buy precisely green aviation fuels. Should we not now listen to the climate partnership we are already behind; that is also what the Prime Minister presented in his inaugural speech and then get a climate contribution so that we can switch the air transport? We propose to do it at Swedish level, that is to say start there. Why don't we do it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092703	Thank you very much for the question from Sofie Carsten Nielsen, and thank you for the recognition of the cooperation we have had in taking the important steps towards fulfilling and implementing the world's most ambitious climate policy, a policy for which not least the Radical Left has a great deal of responsibility and responsibility. After all, I had Airbus as an example, so we are also concerned that the aviation industry is delivering for the green transition. That is absolutely crucial. As a single individual, you can consider how much you have to fly, but there is no doubt that flying will also be an important part of our infrastructure in the future, and that is why this sector must also deliver. We are very pleased with the input we have received from the climate partnership, and I know that negotiations are under way at the Ministry of Transport precisely in this area too, in order to ensure how we get the aviation industry to deliver. I am sure I will not be praised by the Minister for Transport if I take advance notice of those negotiations here in the Chair, but the proposal is noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092802	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092806	I take that as an opening, and it is basically just because we in the Radical Left too have been far too late with that recognition. That is why it will not be possible for the Socialists to return to this recognition even later. We are simply fundamentally behind, so we need it, and when it is actually the industry itself that has delivered the proposals, that is what is so great about this and if we are going to make words into action and say that we are listening to those we have set to make it, then we should implement their proposals for a climate contribution now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092841	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092844	It is possible that the Radicals will criticise the Social Democrats for being a little heavy on their ass, excuse me...... a little heavy on their butts, and that impression can be confirmed if you look at the physical appearance of the rapporteur. However, I would like to say, and it is important that when the Social Democratic Party, together with the Radicals and other parties in the Folketing, moves on to the green transition, we do so with speed and with concrete proposals. And yes, it is also good to have proposals in relation to aviation, and we take it in the negotiations, but you can note that we are open to resolving the issue in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092921	It is not because it is particularly attenuating that one should correct one's own wrong expressions, but of course it helps. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007092934	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am very, very pleased that the rapporteur himself mentions the many investments in welfare that have taken place over the past many years. We have talked about maternity, psychiatry and care for the elderly, and about the need for minimum standards in the day-care institutions. For the first time in decades, we have invested in our welfare and new jobs are being opened up. It is only paradoxical that we are still in a crisis of prosperity, because no one really is looking for those posts. We have a huge, huge problem. Every other nursing position that gets broken up doesn't get occupied. It's not enough educators. There's a shortage of midwives we've already talked about. In some places, there are not even permanent employees on duty on an ordinary night. What will social democracy do to get some more people to look into our welfare sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093031	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten, as so often before here, point to a completely crucial challenge for our welfare society. There is no doubt that the foundation for proper welfare is that we secure the economy. We have done this together with Enhedslisten in several laps, and I am pleased about that. But we cannot provide proper welfare if we do not have the good warm hands out there. As well as there will be no green transition without electricians, there will be no good welfare without sosu assistants, nurses and teachers. That is also why the government is concerned about having the educational competences necessary to have good welfare made available to more people and, above all, ensuring that the welfare education courses are present out there where the Danes live. We need a lot more decentralization. Then it is the case that if we here in the Danish Parliament are able to take a joint responsibility for adopting and prioritizing Denmark, there will be 2.5 billion. kr. extra to invest in education, which will also make a difference in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093130	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093134	It's all very fine, or everything in this reform isn't very good at all, but it's really good to talk about decentralizing and about having more trained. But the fact is that there are fewer and fewer people applying for these specific courses. So we can invest and say that we want to hire more, and we can also create more training places. We can even do this, and we think that's a good idea.• Make more training places around the country, but what they all point to is the pay. The nurses struck for a better salary and were shut down with a hard hand from in here. There are 1,000 midwives who have signed a declaration that they will not take employment in the public sector. Can we do something about the payroll to get more?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093211	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093215	See, in relation to having a look at the pay gap and perhaps also gender-defined pay gap that is in our public labour market, we have set up a pay structure commission to look at and uncover the very complex problem. However, I believe that some of what I said first in relation to the financing of welfare is essential in order to meet the challenge we have with not only applying to those educations. Because if it is to be good to work in the public sector, you must also have colleagues who can lift it with you. That is why this is all connected: we have to invest in welfare for the sake of the citizens, but indeed for those who work there to have good working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093250	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093256	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. There are seven or eight questions that you would like to ask, but I have to choose one, so I will choose the most acute one that we are currently dealing with in this society, and that is a shortage of labour. We can have many and long discussions about the public sector and the size of it and about the welfare society. I hope we agree that the prerequisite for our welfare at all is prosperity, and if we are to have prosperity, it requires companies to be able to get the manpower they need. I know that the view of the trade union movement will always be that there are 14 million unemployed in the European Union and therefore we should not lower the threshold. But if those people are not looking for the jobs that need to be filled in Denmark and now I have to be positive then can't the rapporteur see that it would be a very good opportunity for companies to get the labour force that we are lowering the limit on the amount? Those people are going back home the day they lose their jobs. It only makes our society richer. They don't take anything from anyone. Should we not do this so that we can get the manpower that is needed and create a richer society?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093359	Thank you for the question to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Let me just say at the outset that I fully agree with Mr Seligman. Søren Pape Poulsen and Conservative in that a prerequisite for having the world's best welfare society is that we have the world's best and strongest business. It is the business community and the people they employ that are the economic prerequisite for our welfare society. Just so we're on the same page. Then I also agree with the Conservatives that we have an acute challenge with a shortage of labour. I saw that sir... Søren Pape Poulsen posted an update a few days ago in connection with a guy who had been in the Luxury trap, which I think is called Imad. He had been on a lot of education and got a lot of su, but he did not think that he was now ready to take a job as a garbage man; it was simply under his dignity. That is why I am also glad that yesterday, with a tripartite agreement, we tightened the rules of availability so that people like that are given a very clear message: it is not working, partner; you are going to work. It is one of the ways to more hands in the labour market. Then we have a large number of other proposals in our reform package, and we are also happy to listen to the proposals that come from Conservatives, but it is well known that we have concerns about the limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093503	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093507	I am glad that we agree that if you want money in this society, you have to work for them, and everyone, whoever they are. If you're healthy, you have to work out, done. However, I hope that we agree that the tripartite agreement that landed yesterday will not solve all the problems, to say the least. That is why I ask again: is there an ideological resistance in the Social Democratic Party to foreign labour? Should they come from the European Union? Or is it because if people come from Ukraine and India, it is not as good a workforce as if they come from elsewhere? Should we not just give companies the manpower they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093539	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093542	We fully agree with the challenge. That is also why we have put forward a reform proposal to ensure that companies have access to the workforce they need. It is absolutely terrible that we get all the reports that companies say no to orders because there is no labour. What we did yesterday was to tighten the rules of availability and ensure a better match between the unemployed and companies, but also to ensure better access to the European labour markets, where there are 10-15 million unemployed. When we are concerned about the labour market outside the European Union, it is of course because we have a concern that there may be excessive wage competition and a wage pressure, especially on our professional labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093617	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093625	Thank you. Three IS terrorists are soon on Danish soil, actively brought here by the Social Democratic Government. One of the three has dual citizenship. The government has previously promised that you would not actively bring these people to Denmark. The government has also promised in the past that those who had dual citizenship should have taken away their Danish. You're turned on a plate by several turns. It has done exactly the opposite of what has been promised to the Danes. Now they're standing here. The rapporteur said earlier that the woman who has dual citizenship had it, but that it was not known when she was being dealt with and tried to bring her home. Does the rapporteur therefore recognise that we have been sloppy and that we have simply shown an extreme form of slendrian with the security and security of the Danes in the treatment of these IS terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093721	Thank you for the question from Mrs Pernille Vermund. I think that there are several points in the question. There is no doubt that it is foreign warriors who have come to Denmark and who must be prosecuted with the toughest possible clauses. That's what's gonna happen. Conversely, there is no doubt that the most important task for a government that may sit is at all times to look after the Danes best and take care of the security of the realm. And when there is a PET assessment, which very clearly says that the best way to do it is to take the foreign fighters home, who have Danish citizenship and only Danish citizenship, then I think it is a responsible government's job to listen to such an assessment. Then it is also true, as the rapporteur says, that when we take the decision on the third foreign warrior who turns out to have dual citizenship, we do not realise that she has dual citizenship and that is why we are making the decision we are making. There is no doubt that it is a mistake that we are not informed about it as we make the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093820	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093824	After all, that was an honest answer. But no, it's so sad. How sad it is that something that is so crucial for a great many Danes, for our security and for our safety is treated so leniently; that one simply does not make an effort with one's work. We are talking about IS terrorists, women who have gone out and who have even taken their children under their arms to fight for an Islamic caliphate with potential death as the ultimate consequence both for themselves and for their children. You get them actively here, and then you sloppy with the treatment. What's that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093859	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093902	I agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund in the description and in her, I think, quite reasonable indignation in relation to these people. We agree on that. I also agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund that it is sad when there are errors in the procedure, as has happened here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093918	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007093925	Thank you. Today is a great day and an important day for our people's government and for our democracy, because it is today that the Mink Commission is embarking on its work of investigating the government's violation of law and the illegal killing of the Danish mink industry. When an impeachment case was set up against Inger Støjberg, the Social Democracy and, of course, the Prime Minister were very firm that this is not a matter of child bride, it is a matter of lawbreaking. And then I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether you can expect the same consistency in this matter from the Social Democratic Party so that you will not push Corona and public health ahead of you. Because that is not what it is all about; it is about the illegal killing, about the crime and the consequences. Can we expect that consistency on the part of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094013	Well, we agree to have set up the commission that is being asked here, and the mandate for that work is clear. So we're not gonna argue about that. But it is clear that when we discuss the issue of mink, we should do so with respect and understanding of what kind of situation Denmark was in when the decision was taken. Otherwise, it will be a discussion on some wrong grounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094043	Here you go, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094047	Yes, but with the same logic, Inger Støjberg's possible violation of law can't really be discussed without discussing child brides... that's what I have to understand. And then Social Democracy has simply changed its mind. This must be the case now that we want to push ahead with corona and public health. I think that is a pity; I think that we should be consistent in our positions. But can I not just hear what the rapporteur actually thinks is the worst error? Is it illegal for a short period of time to separate couples from children's bride or is it to slaughter an entire profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094120	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094124	The questioner should not put words in my mouth, for I answered the question about the commission crystal clear. And we agree on the Commission's field of action... that is not a matter for discussion. I am simply saying that when we have the more general discussion here in the Folketing or elsewhere about the decision on mink, which was a heavy decision, we should do so in respect of what it was for a situation that was in Denmark and what a challenge there was in relation to the health and safety of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094149	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094152	Thank you for your speech and for a text of adoption in which the alternative can also see itself. On the other hand, we very much disagree with the agreement to reduce CO2 and we do not agree with the fact that it winds up politicians when you stand and praise such a bad deal for the clouds. In fact, we believe it creates politicians. Why is it that such a large part of the CO2 is postponed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094233	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl and the alternative to the question. It is not so surprising that it is going to be about climate; Mr. Torsten Gejl is, after all, a member of a party that I think, along with a number of other parties, has a very great honour and deserves recognition for the fact that the political focus is currently on the climate as massively as it is. And thank you, by the way, for the places where we have been able to cooperate, and also for the cooperation on a text for adoption, which very clearly says that we must reach our 70%. Our agreement on agriculture is t, but at the same time because we commit a broad Parliament to finding reductions of between 55 and 60% in a conciliation procedure over almost 10 years. We are obliged, above all, to the bourgeois parties to reduce emissions of nitrogen to our aquatic environments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094336	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094338	Thank you for that commendation. That makes it almost completely difficult to be critical. But now the climate is something that needs to be saved, so we have to try to be sharp on it. Why is it that agriculture did not help to reduce any meat production, which emits an incredible amount of CO2? You could have started by reducing meat production. It is then said that the cow that is not produced in Denmark is then produced in Poland, but that is not true. Environmentally economic wise men say that you can't say that to you. That might be 20%. of the cow produced in Poland. Why did not a reduction in meat production take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094419	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094423	If the Danes do not reduce their consumption of meat, it is clear that if we reduce our production, production must come from somewhere else, and it cannot come from a country as green as Denmark is on agriculture, because we are number one and will with the agreement remain number one and draw from the other countries. Basically, I think it is wrong to regulate meat output. I think it is fantastic that we are creating a strategy for plant-based food and green proteins that makes people, the Danes, eat less meat and more green, but basically we need to regulate emissions, both on nitrogen and on CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094456	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094500	Thank you. I'm gonna do sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is aware that I do not think that there are very many people in this room who would be able to do the job as a garbageman, because it takes a considerable fitness to do so. So you don't have to ditche that way. But that does not change the fact that we have the problem of labour shortages, and that is why I would like to ask a question as a follow-up to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Pape Poulsen's question in this regard: why do we not tax less work in this country when we want more work? There's no logic in not doing that. The second question I would like to ask relates to the Prime Minister's great battle number in the speech about a lot of general housing in Copenhagen. Out of 10,000 homes that have been built in Copenhagen, only the 6% are. common. This is because there is no economy in it for the City of Copenhagen. There is not much fun for the City of Copenhagen to meet the quota they already have at 25%, so what will the government do about it in order to realise the dream that the Prime Minister has?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094608	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094612	Thank you for two good questions from Mr. Jens Rohde and the Christian Democrats, and by the way, thank you for agreeing on a report which I think is good and which shows a very clear direction also in relation to climate issues and child poverty. Jens Roh at heart. What I said about the garbageman was, in fact, very much in line with what Mr. Jens Roh said. What Imad, the participant in question, said was wrong. He should lighten the decorated one, which we do not call from here, and get started on a job, including garbageman work. When we have the tax structure we have in Denmark, it is of course because taxes are a prerequisite for financing our welfare society. After all, we must constantly set up the tax system so that we get a top-tuned business sector, get more of what we want, but we also have the challenge that we cannot just remove very large tax bases, because then we simply cannot afford some of the other things that we want to do. Then I agree with Mr. Jens Roh in that in order to solve the challenge of mixed cities or to provide more mixed cities, we also have to address the economic challenge that municipalities have when they want to build more general housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094717	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094720	So is the message to the Copenhageners here and, by the way, the other major cities too... now I'm looking over at my good friend, the Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs... that there will be more money? And do you want to introduce a compulsory system? For again, the municipalities have the opportunity to build up to 25%. housing in general, but they don't do it, and the City of Copenhagen doesn't do it at all because it's a bad economy. That means that we have to come up with something from in here, and what will it be? The government must have thought about that, because I'm not assuming that the Prime Minister will just stand up and make hot air from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094755	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094759	We have certainly thought about this and there will also be a proposal later on. By the way, I am pleased that we share the ambition of mixed housing with Mr. Jens Roh. Mixed housing in our large cities is a prerequisite for us to meet across ethnic divisions and economic divisions, and the cross-border meeting is a prerequisite for us to have a cohesion that is in turn a prerequisite for our having a welfare society. What we are talking about here is absolutely fundamental. Then it is true that there are some economic barriers to building universally, and we will address that with our proposal, but I am not going to pre-discount the whole play from here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094831	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094837	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In fact, I think that, although it may not say much, a higher average is added to answer the questions. I would like to give that to the rapporteur. We are not entirely satisfied with what is being answered, but that is another matter, and that may not be surprising either. However, there was one question that the Socialist rapporteur did not just address, and I therefore ask the same question as Mrs Sophie Løhde, namely whether the rapporteur can explain how it can be business-friendly. How can you say that you are the most professionally friendly government, and how can you say that you want to create jobs and jobs in this country, and that is what you rhetorically say, while the results are an increasing tax burden, new taxes, increased taxes and charges, and at the same time taking 10,000 people out of the workforce? How can that rhetoric be related to the results?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007094939	Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. Now I am the one who gets so flattered that I almost find it hard to answer, because one of the most annoying things when you sit down there is if a rapporteur does not answer the questions. I would like to endeavor to do so. That is because one cannot take a single proposal and then pick it out and make it a picture of the entire government's policy. I'm glad we're here, among other things. together with the Left, for example, has raised the tax on cigarettes so that more young people do not start smoking. I am glad that we have put a tax on disposable plastics, so we have less mess in our water system. At the same time, I am pleased that we are increasing the research and development allowance so that companies have the opportunity to invest in the development that is essential for creating jobs for the future. At the same time, I am pleased that we are making a massive investment in training so that companies get the electricians and the engineers that are crucial to them. At the same time, I am very, very pleased that we have made an infrastructure agreement which means that the Danes who are going to work can get there more quickly. You have to see the government's policy as a whole and it is very, very business-friendly, as I think the economic ratios also reveal very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095042	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095046	Thank you for your answer. I could understand the rapporteur so far if you swapped the tax burden and, for example, the tax burden. said that some citizens are being taxed more heavily to ease the tax burden on some companies. So I could understand that you can raise taxes and change the tax system and at the same time call yourself business-friendly. But when you increase the tax burden by 12 billion. kr., and when you propose a policy that pulls 10,000 people out of the workforce that's what the results show how the government thinks you're business-friendly? I'm afraid I still don't understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095119	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095123	Well, that's because sir... Karsten Lauritzen chooses to focus solely on parts of government policy. It is true that we are giving a pension to worn-out Danes who are reasonable and reasonable and who, moreover, ensure popular support for the most important single contribution to the Danish economy, namely the 2006 welfare agreement, but at the same time we are providing new labour with our reform trail. I hope we can do this together with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095145	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095156	Thank you. I think I'm gonna follow up on sir. Karsten Lauritzen's question, because now we are tracking into what is business-, growth- and job-friendly. I can be even more specific than Mr. Karsten Lauritzen: Does the rapporteur think that it is an expression of business friendliness and thus job-friendliness and growth-friendliness that the government raises the generational tax on the family-owned companies, which account for a very large proportion of good, solid Danish jobs, especially in rural areas? Is it the expression of a business-friendly and thus job-friendly policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095228	Again, I have to insist that it should be seen in a context, because it is again the overall taxation that we have at home that allows us to make investments in our welfare, which will allow us to ensure the green transition, which is also a prerequisite for our having a well-functioning business. Then it is true that the Left and the bourgeois with a number of initiatives gave very, very large tax cuts to the very richest Danes. Among other things: The tax was reduced on the largest stock returns, the tax was reduced on the largest gains from housing speculation, and the tax was reduced on the inheritance of business. These were tax measures which favoured the very richest and which, overall, were not sensible, and that is why we have taken initiatives to roll back the unfair tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095310	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095313	Now we have reached the point where the rapporteur says that we must look together at the government's tax policy in order to assess whether it is business-friendly. So you just have to ask the question: is it an expression of a policy that is business-friendly and thus job-friendly and growth-friendly, that you increase the tax burden for Danish entrepreneurs, for Danish companies and for family-owned companies, which in many societies are the cornerstone of job creation and growth creation? Does the rapporteur seriously believe that raising taxes by over 10 billion is a growth-friendly and job-friendly policy? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095348	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095352	I think we are now in a position to say that I do not think we are going to go much further in the debate. However, it is wrong when the rapporteur says that when I point out that the whole policy of the government is to be looked at, that is something we have only just arrived at. That is what I started by answering. It is not true that we have put taxes on entrepreneurs, but it is true that we are setting up a tax policy that enables us to finance our welfare, to finance the green transition and to finance the extra training that will enable companies to get the skilled labour they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095416	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095424	Thank you, President, and thank you for your speech. This is notable both in the rapporteur's speech and also in the Prime Minister's speech the other day, how much climate fills. Maybe it's not that weird. On the one hand, it may be a team of socialists, and on the other hand it may also cover up some of the more boring things that the government does not want to talk about, namely the handling of Afghanistan; the slap that was received from the European Union without apparently doing anything in relation to the intervention against families with children and, of course, not least the fake, it is that the people who until recently were thought to have turned their backs on Denmark have today been brought home with the approval and help of the government. So far, it is three IS women, mothers and their 14 children who have been brought to Denmark by the government that it is calling for at least two questions which I hope the rapporteur can deal with in a response round. What will be done to ensure the safety of the Danes? Well, these are people who have excelled in, or at least supported, executions, murders, violence, the most brutal attacks on other people. And can the rapporteur guarantee that it will remain with the three women and their 14 children and that there will be no more later?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095529	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095533	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide. It is clear that I am making a speech about what I think is most important, but I am standing here for 45 minutes, where the whole parliament can ask me what they want. So I guess the thing about deciding what I'm gonna talk about isn't within my reach. As far as Denmark's security is concerned, it is now the task to ensure that the foreign warriors who have come to Denmark are persecuted according to the strictest possible clauses. They'll be in custody and prosecuted. Then I note that the first question concerned the safety of the Danes. I would just like to point out again that the reason these foreign fighters are now on Danish soil is that when we made the task force, we asked PET how and how to handle this case. And there was the announcement from PET that, in relation to the safety of the Danes and the safety of the Danes, which I know the rapporteur is concerned about, and which I myself am concerned about, it would be most sensible to take home those women, the foreign fighters, who have Danish citizenship alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095634	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095637	Yes, but what Special Branch says is that there are risks in both scenarios. And then the government has chosen the wrong scenario in our optics, but that does not relieve the government of thinking about the Danes' security. These are people who believe that democracy must be fought by violence, homosexuals must be executed, women who do not follow Sharia must be stoned. What will the government specifically do to ensure that the people themselves or through their minions in Denmark do not have these atrocities carried out in Denmark? You owe an answer to that. And then I'd like a guarantee. I would like to have a guarantee that with the enormous turnaround that the government has made in relation to some people who were thought to have turned their backs on Denmark, but which has now been actively taken to Denmark, it will be with the three Islamic state women and their 14 children. I would like a guarantee that not one more will come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095716	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095719	As far as the foreign fighters referred to by the rapporteur here are concerned, we can only look at what the government has done. We have been tough and consistent in pursuing the strategy that everyone with dual citizenship should have taken away their Danish citizenship so that they cannot turn back. That is quite clear; that is what we have done. In relation to risks, it is true, as the rapporteur says, that different scenarios involve different types of risk. Our task now is to prosecute, but our task as a government is also to make the choice that is the safest for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095752	We have come to the last brief remark, which falls to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095802	One line in his speech was that which the Prime Minister found room to spend in the criminal services. She said that there really is a need for a boost and a new direction, and I very much agree with that, because the situation is serious. Unfortunately, however, the Prime Minister did not present a single initiative to remedy the lack of hands and seats that we have in the field of criminal justice. And then it is, of course, that I remember that when the Socialists were in opposition, it was suggested that 0.5 billion should come. kr. more to the criminal services for more hands. However, when I opened the financial bill, I was quite disappointed because it shows a falling budget in the years ahead. This isn't a boost. Where is the promise made by the Social Democrats to the Criminal Services? The Socialists intend to keep their promise of 0.5 billion. kr. More to the D.A.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095859	Thank you very much to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for her question, and thank you to the SF and Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for persevering and stubbornly continuing to talk about the conditions in our criminal services, because that is not good enough as it is at the moment. And the SF and especially the legal rapporteur deserve special praise for continuing to raise that question. In the Finance Act presented by the government, we had the starting point for it to be a narrow financial law, because we need to lighten our feet from the accelerator so that we do not get an overheating. However, one of the priorities was precisely criminal justice. So, in the Finance Act, we prioritized the negotiations from the start to secure a bottom under funding so that negotiations should not start with saving. And so I would like to say quite clearly from the platform today that we in the Social Democratic Party are well aware that this has not been done with it, and that funds must also be found when we also have to draw up a multi-year agreement for the criminal services, hopefully together with the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095953	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007095956	I am pleased that more money is on the way, because that is just what is needed out there. And I can't understand why we've waited so long to do something. Detectives are on a disaster course. In Renbæk State Prison, every employee in the month of October is required to provide 52 hours of overtime. It goes without saying that we are wearing our staff down in this way. It cannot go on and that means that even more people are quitting. I would therefore just like to see whether I could put a single promise to the rapporteur in the negotiations, because I am concerned that we are reintroducing the pupil's salary in order to recruit more widely. Is that something that the Socialists want to be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007100034	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007100038	Once again, thanks to the criminal service has a strong shop steward in SF's Legal Rapporteur. What I said was that we laid a bottom in the Finance Act. And then I said that we are aware that more funding must be provided in the negotiations. After all, that will require that group of parties to agree on how it should be provided. It is important, and it is necessary. I have also taken note of the proposal on pupil's pay, which I believe has been made earlier by the SF. It is not a proposal that we have any opposition to in principle, but it is probably also a proposal that we must refer to the negotiations that are going on in order to find a better framework for criminal justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007100115	Thank you, Mr President, to the rapporteur. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Time has passed and that means that we will continue in the rapporteur's line. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007100125	Thank you for that, President. Dear all, Denmark can do more. I fully agree with that. I hope the Folketing can, and I hope we are ready for that. At least we are in the Left, because there is a lot to be done in the new parliamentary year. We must maintain the economic recovery, we must have more people working, and we must speed up the green transition and invest in it. If there is one thing I have learned from the past year, it is that the future is unpredictable, that politics is unpredictable. Right now, we are in a situation that most people would not have dared to hope for just a year ago. Corona is on his way back, not because we decided to do so here in Parliament, but because the Danes took an individual responsibility, looked after each other and were vaccinated. Every time the Left and the other parties pressed for a reopening of the country, we were told: it will not work, the infection will explode. And every time, our trust-based and responsible society surprised both experts and some politicians. Denmark can really more, and probably more, than anyone in here ever thought. That is why we are in the situation today that the Danish economy is growing and there is an acute shortage of labour. This is a serious situation. It is not just for companies; it is for our society too. For a successful business community, the prerequisite is for everything we want to achieve here in Denmark. Successful business is the prerequisite for investing in good welfare, proper and dignified care for our elderly, strong and safe healthcare and world-class education. The money must be made before it can be used. It is such a bourgeois and liberal doctrine. That is why the Left also awaits the government's so-called welfare law with a proposal to improve it and turn it into a growth and welfare law, so that an increase in public spending is bound up with an increase in economic growth based on a tax freeze, of course. That is how the Left will live up to our welfare vows without us squandering the economy. Lack of labour also gives us a unique opportunity to get more people into work, and we must seize that opportunity. Because if you as a human being are to have the opportunity to lift yourself, it starts with a job. When you take a job, you take responsibility for yourself. You take responsibility for your family, it allows you to shape your own life. Honestly, I wish we stopped talking work down. Work is not an acidic duty in which you alone make your efforts to be a pawn in a major puzzle, as I've heard someone say. Work is about far more than being able to pay your taxes to the common fund. It is meaningful to take responsibility for yourself, even if it is not every day a dance on roses. That is why I believe that all jobs are worth something. We in the Left have put forward a number of proposals to get more people into work. Firstly, we have proposed a higher employment allowance so that work can pay better. Secondly, we have proposed the introduction of a duty to work to ensure that more immigrants become part of the working community. That proposal goes back to the government's reform initiative, and it is certainly positive. I just cannot help but warn strongly against the government's raising the benefits to unemployed immigrants in particular. I fear that the government could do it again when it comes to following up on the Service Commission. Think about it. So there is a risk of undermining efforts to get more immigrants into work, and that is a completely wrong way to go. Instead: Make demands on people, expect some of people. There's nothing else we can be familiar with. Thirdly, we have proposed lowering the graduation rate so that we get more young graduates into work. I think it is right and proper, and it proposed that the Left back in August. Now we can see that it is also part of the government's initiative. Thank you. So we agree on a new graduation rate. Then we disagree as to whether the money should be spent on investing in the green transition or whether it should be spent on new deductions for the trade union movement and higher daily allowances. Let's take it to the negotiating room. There's something to agree on, and then we're a good way along the way. Another thing we need to take in the negotiating room is how to open up qualified international labour, because there is therefore a need for measures to strengthen employment here and now, not for a year, not for two years at all, but now. I hope that the government will soon get on the ground here, because it is urgent and the government cannot continue to show up for that part of responsibility. Even the trade union movement points to the need for international labour if our companies are not to stop. So let's get to work on that part now too. We must be careful that we do not shut ourselves in so much that we shut growth out of Denmark. We need to raise our ambitions on behalf of Denmark. Another place where we need to be ambitious is when it comes to combating climate change. It was an area that filled a great deal in the Socialist rapporteur's speech. I'm glad. That is also something that I could make a long speech about, because there is a lot to say. But let me be relatively brief and in this part start by saying thank you: thank you to the Danish Parliament for a good and broad agreement on our food sector. It's a lot of work all around. We can do this. In particular, I would like to thank the bourgeois parties for their close and very trusting cooperation throughout the process. An agreement was planned which would cost up to 14 000 jobs, many of them in our rural areas. It had been a disaster for Denmark. Together, we succeeded in moving the agreement in a more responsible direction, including a more responsible and ambitious direction in relation to the climate. So dear Conservatives, Danish People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance and Christian Democrats, I think we can be satisfied with that. Together we also succeeded in making it clear that we must invest in the green transition at home. That is the way forward, instead of just sending emissions and jobs abroad. Climate policy is moving. It's moving right now, and this is really landmark, because it's not about having high ambitions anymore, because we all have. It is about the willingness to invest in the green transition, it is about putting action behind words. I can just say: we are ready for that in the Left. Because I fully agree that climate change is the biggest challenge of our time. I do not believe that we can wait as long as 2025 until we have a final climate plan as proposed by the government. It's no use pushing decisions ahead of us. It's urgent, and we need to get into gear now. I can say quite clearly that if I lead a new government after the elections, the green transition will be an absolute top priority. I'd like to guarantee that. Then, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Citizens' Party, the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, sir. Orla Østerby, Mrs Inger Løjberg and Mr. Naser Khader read the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the lack of labour challenges Danish economy and that the government's initiative&#x2;ver is insufficient. The Folketing stresses the importance of pursuing a responsible economic policy which makes it cheaper to be a Dane and which creates growth and prosperity. This is the prerequisite for welfare and green conversion. The Folketing stresses the importance of safeguarding our food and agricultural sector so that we develop the industry. It is good for Denmark, the climate and Danish jobs. The Danish Parliament expresses concern that the government restricts citizens' free choice of welfare services and pursues a policy that by raising taxes and taxes for Danish companies and citizens costs Danish jobs. The Folketing expresses concern about the bureaucracy of the public sector and a government that does not ensure more trust and freedom for those working with welfare. The Danish Parliament stresses the importance of pursuing a strict and consistent immigration policy, including not giving unemployed immigrants higher transfer income. More criminal foreigners must be expelled. • V 2).
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101115	Thank you for that and it will then also be part of the further debate. But now we are addressing 45 minutes of brief remarks, and first it is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101124	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the speech. Why did the Left not tell the Danes in the election campaign that there were ultimate demands that followed before one was willing to deliver on the welfare promise that was given to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101139	I actually imagine that most Danes are aware of this and I know that I have repeated it sometimes today, that is because I have found it necessary, and it actually worries me a little that we in the Left believe that you should make money before you spend it. That is what is at the heart of our welfare promise, and I stand by that welfare promise, and I stand by that, even to this day, and I intend to go to the polls again. Our welfare promise provides a guarantee of a responsible economic policy so that we not only say that we will spend the money but also tell us how we will earn it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101217	I'm not gonna be able to tell you what the Danes know. They are generally very well-informed, but in the election campaign it was the case that the Left made a promise to put a bottom under welfare • I think it was 69 billion. kr. How, in fact, does the Left intend to get support, including on the bourgeois side, for the ultimate demands? We saw, for example, that both the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives were in the agreement on the police settlement, despite the fact that the Left went out because of a rich tax freeze, and the same as the law on prosperity, which the Left itself voted against.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101252	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101254	It is a bit crazy that it can be controversial and ultimate in saying: 'Try to hear that we think it is quite responsible that we should earn the money before we spend it.' I can't believe it can be controversial; it's crazy. Well, I think that's what the nice people out here expect us to do, so we don't just say that regardless of whether there's money in the box, we guarantee that we'll use rub and stump. That's just not what I'm looking my kids in the eye and saying, Dad's gonna burn all the money off before they get to it. That's not how we think. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101328	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101329	Thank you for your cooperation on the Agriculture Agreement. It was really important that it landed far better than we could have imagined just a short time ago. But what I'd like to ask, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, on the other hand, is in another ball street. It is in relation to the foreign warriors who have now landed in Denmark last night. It is of course no secret that we in the Danish People's Party think that the Left has not quite kept up the resistance that we might well have intended, and so I would like to ask Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, whether the Left is of the opinion that no more foreign fighters should come to Denmark; that Denmark must not actively in any way bring more foreign fighters from Syria to Denmark; that one should put a plug in the hole; and that it is said that now these three women and their children have arrived, but that there should be no more? We already see today in the debate that the government's support parties are out demanding that even more from down there are taken to Denmark. I really think it is horrifying and I am very interested to hear where we have the Left there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101429	I am sorry if there has been any doubt about that, because the Left has been on the same point of view all along. We don't think these women were going to Denmark. We believe that we have an obligation to protect children, and I really believe that we all share the view that it is absolutely horrifying what these children have been subjected to. But we don't think these women were going to Denmark. We believe that they should be prosecuted locally for the crimes they have committed, but we did not think they were going to Denmark, and we still do not think so. I understand, then, that until some time the government thought that if you had dual citizenship, Danish citizenship should be taken away, and then you did not have to go to Denmark, but apparently that was only true of some. We see that differently. I think they should have been prosecuted locally. I do not think that we are in a better place today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101516	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101517	Thank you for that investigation. Can I use it as a starting point to get a guarantee that the Left will not participate in any new agreements that bring more from Syria to Denmark? After all, there are children in Syria who some believe have a relationship with Denmark, which means that they should be brought to Denmark on behalf of Danish taxpayers. After all, we have the fear that if you do that, then there are also more parents who come along, and that is why we think it is a really, really bad idea. But can I take that statement from Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen expressed the view that the Left will not help bring them to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101557	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can take my statement as an expression of the fact that those people who, for reasons that are completely incomprehensible to me, have chosen to join a medieval, violent, reckless caliphate, have no desire to look at Danish soil again, and I will do everything I can to prevent it from happening. But their children are their children! If Danish children live under these unhappy circumstances, we have an obligation to help them and only them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101628	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101631	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I would also like to hear a little about this welfare law and why the Left cannot support it. Now I know what, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will say that the money must be made first. It would also be a fine principle if it were true only in the real world, but the truth is that the Left has led a government which has provided unfunded tax relief for 27 billion. kr. A total of 42 billion people are in charge of vocational grants per year. kr., agriculture must have 10 billion. kr., before a crown is earned, and besides, it is also something that has been promised in the election campaign. So how can you say that you have to make money first, that is to say that they have to be there in advance when Mr. Will Jacob Ellemann-Jensen take the lead in a government that will use so-called dynamic effects to finance one thing or the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101728	Let me start by saying that this is how my private economy works. I do not take on expenses that I do not have revenue to cover, and in this way I avoid getting into the otherwise excellent television programme called the Luxury trap, and I think we as a nation should avoid that too. Then I just have to face up to the misconception that seems to be on approximately this side of the Assembly, and that is that tax relief is something that is being given. It's not! Tax relief is about not taking anything. You don't give tax relief because you let people keep something. It's not giving anything away, it's letting them keep anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101807	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101810	So let me give you another example. The Left also contributed 600 billion under Corona. kr. in liquidity available to business. It was not money we had in advance; it is not money that had already been earned; it is mainly debt. On the other hand, it was very sensible, as the Prime Minister also mentioned in his opening speech, because it has made Denmark better and safer through the crisis than any other country. It's not money that was earned, it's money we borrowed because it turned out to be a really, really good investment. So the Left's argument that the money should be made first simply makes no sense, but it is just a clear promise that you will not keep what you promised in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101847	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101848	No, it's not. After all, the rapporteur has been a financial rapporteur for quite many years and therefore understands well, despite the straw-man argument, the fact that there is something called permanent expenditure and that there is something called here and now expenditure. There is money we spend for a year and there is money we spend for many years. An obligation to take on expenditure that is increasing in the future, without imposing an obligation to increase revenue accordingly, is irresponsible. To spend some money on supporting a crisis situation, one-off expenditures, is thunderously responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101928	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007101933	Thank you for the floor. I'm incredibly glad that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has as his mission, if he were to take over the Prime Minister's Office, to put the green agenda and green ambitions first. In fact, I am thinking that one can hardly be party leader either in Denmark or anywhere else on the planet without actually putting it at the very most. And I know that sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also likes to listen to the business community, so I have a question about it. The climate partnership for aviation itself has proposed a climate contribution in relation to aviation, so that we can switch aviation in particular. I believe that the rapporteur and I agree that we will probably not stop flying. So should we not get started listening to the industry itself and getting that climate contribution introduced? Where does the Left stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102032	At least, as Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen also says, we have to listen to the business community here too. For what is really at the heart of this is that there are some who have such a view that the green transition must be a slave, that it must reduce our opportunities and that it must make our lives suck in some way. I don't think so. In other words, we have to have the green transition in a way that does not limit our options but retains our options. One of the issues we have to deal with is our air traffic, which is why we need to find alternatives here, and I am very, very happy to listen to the proposals that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102109	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102110	I am glad that the proposal already exists. As I also said to the Social Democrat rapporteur, we have been a little late in the Radical Left; I heard a concession from the Social Democrat rapporteur that one had been quite slow to make the end easier I think that is the word we are using in this context. So couldn't the Left also imagine facilitating that part more quickly, so we started to achieve this goal, because it's about continuing to move around the globe, but in a way so that we don't smash the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102147	I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament that we have taken a long time to lighten the rear. We're the ones out front, so if you're gonna catch up with us, it's out there we are. Listen, we need a market-driven green transition. We must have a green transition that does not limit our options, otherwise we risk losing our support for the green measures that we need to make, and that cannot be done. That's what Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen said before. After all, we have no desire for any of us to have yellow vests and to be furious out in the Palace Square. That's why we need to keep this balance. That's something we agree on in here. Well, let's take advantage of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102224	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102226	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the speech. It is always a bit liberating to be able to have a slightly more ideological debate in this Chamber, and so I would also like to ask a few questions about welfare. Fortunately, Denmark is now a society with high productivity and lots of values are being created, so the question is how we distribute those values in society. This can either be done, as the VLAK government did in the past, by providing tax relief or by investing in welfare. But it is not only rhetoric in this Chamber, it is also practically the reality that is out there in society, and some of those who today pay a price for the welfare not being sufficient are those who suffer from their oral health, that is, those who need to go to the dentist; there is for some strange reason a difference between breaking a leg or breaking a tooth. And if we are to ensure them better, we also need to ensure that we extend welfare to dental health, so that it does not depend on user fees. We can do that, for example. Today see that 40%. of the young people who come out of child care, three years after not coming to the dentist, and this has direct consequences. It has direct consequences for their economy, it also has direct consequences for their dental health and consequences in terms of derived effects. Would the Left agree that we need to expand dental health and thus also increase welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102342	Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102344	I heard well from Enhedslisten's summer group meeting that this was one of the key messages that came out afterwards. So there is something strange about it, and I fully agree with the rapporteur on that. There's something weird about this: if one of us falls off the bike and breaks the jaw, then it's the community that ensures that we're taken care of, but if we break our teeth, it's ours after problem. Well, there is some bias in this, and at the same time it is an area that makes up with the persistent myth that there is no user charge in our health care, because there is. Is the user payment quite fairly distributed? I am not sure, because the example of the teeth is not the only one. If you need glasses, then it's your own problem. If you need a hearing aid, society covers a large part of it. If my stomach hurts, then it's the community problem. Unfortunately, my back hurts, it's my own problem. Well, there are some imbalances in this which I think we can actually discuss. To me, it must be from a single frame, which is the same, and which is not something like that, where you think: Well money is something that falls down like manna from heaven. But I actually think it's an important discussion, because some of this is such a little historical condition: what actually came first?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102456	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102457	That's absolutely right. This is also a very specific discussion. And what is the Left's answer? Is it to be, but we just have to see that that is not affordable, so we have to live with that inequality; there has to be a user charge on dental health? Can we see that there will be other areas where the Left will then say: well, here too we will have to extend the user fee, because we cannot afford welfare because instead we will use the values created in society to provide tax relief for. So, what is the Left's answer to those young people, cash benefit recipients and pensioners who cannot afford to go to the dentist? Is the answer that they're just gonna have to put up with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102532	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102533	No, I really think I said before, and I am happy to say that let us discuss this here, but also on the premise that money is not something that just dumps out of the blue. In other words, if there is to be a redistribution, we must discuss the redistribution, but we do have a framework which is what we have, but let us have an open-minded debate on it. I do not have any suggestions for this at present. I note that this is the case today, and I admit that it may not be entirely fair on all sides. Well, let's have a look. But so, to the one saying that we want more user charges: we really want less. This is why all Danes have access to private hospitals instead of only the most affluent people today. That's why we have a medical warranty and a right of investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102615	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102617	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech, which, funny enough, I very much agree with. I would also like to thank you for the good cooperation on the Agriculture and Climate Agreement, and I think we can confirm each other that we are both gifted with some very, very talented rapporteurs in this area who have informed us of many things that we might not have been aware of before. I would like to ask whether we should not create cooperation and joint pressure on the government and who else should be printed on the right of older citizens to free elections; that we give the elderly the right to decide for themselves what to eat, who to come into their homes and where to live; that we try to take the ideology out of that discussion and instead say that the most important thing is care, dignity and respect and not who provides the benefit. I have an idea that this may be a rather leading issue, but I hope that we can stand together to fight for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102717	I'd like to thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for that question and to show up behind the primeval forest of flowers standing here in front. I'm not surprisingly one hundred percent agree with that. I think that's a good idea, and I think it's a good pressure to put, because this is all about us being different. I am sure that when that day arrives, I hope, many years from now, when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and I had to go to a nursing home, so it is not certain that what is right for one is right for the other too. It could be nice if that was how I actually think it would probably be the same place we ended up. But we are different, and now let us cultivate it, let us give room for it. Well, that's why I have an ambition that there should be a free nursing home in each municipality in Denmark. That is why I have an ambition that there are not 10 free municipalities in Denmark, but 98. That is because people are different, and we must allow room for that diversity, because diversity is good. So we want to create more freedom and more opportunities for both the elderly and the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102823	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102824	Will the Left help us create an independent entity to check whether the private suppliers should provide the service at a fair price, i.e. whether the municipalities' calculations are correct, or whether they sometimes point the pen a little plentifully when they have to show how cheap the municipality is doing, because that makes it hopeless for private suppliers to enter this market?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102845	I mean, I think that there should be fair competition and that we should have the opportunity to offer ourselves to a private provider as well. This is something that can sound very ideological when we have these discussions, and perhaps it is. And that is because we really put man before that view I do not share. For the good thing about having private suppliers, having some free choice, is that if people don't like what they get, they go and then the supplier goes bankrupt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102925	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007102928	Well, it is just before I crack a tear and the hairs rise, when I hear so much beautiful talk about the free choice, about people's diversity, and that what is right for one is not necessarily the right thing for the other, and therefore we should not interfere so much here in Christiansborg. We must ensure the free choice of citizens. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and other good people in it, and I am pleased about that. What I wonder is: why on earth does the same logic not apply when it comes to maternity? Why should we not safeguard the freedom of families to differ in this area too? Why is it that the Left celebrates the free choice just not when it comes to the distribution of maternity leave, which is one of the most private at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103013	You might think that what goes ahead is marginally more private, but leave it at that. Listen: I know that there are parties in the blue fraternity too that pretend this is a decision we have to make in here. It's not. And you can be against that. That is why we have fought against this being a decision to be taken within the framework of the European Union. We've taken care of it. It is no secret that I am relatively enthusiastic about European cooperation. I think it's completely in the fence that you get involved in this. I think it should be a Danish decision, but you pretend that this is something we have to discuss here, because we have to. I mean, I'm against rain, too, but I'm gonna make it, and then I'm gonna bring an umbrella, gloaches, rubber boots and stuff. Now let's adjust to this instead of just fighting something that's gonna come anyway. So can we say: do we think it should be exactly that way? No, but let's see what's positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103122	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103123	This is the first time I have heard the Left say that this is due to the EU directive; that is why it has to be implemented. Otherwise, both the Chairman of the Left and several different rapporteurs have said that this is an excellent idea, that it is good for equality, and I know what it is. This is the first time I have heard that we may actually be opposed to the compulsory distribution of maternity leave, but unfortunately we have to do so for the sake of the EU directive. In the past, it has been said both by the Left and also by the Social Democratic Party that it must then be challenged in relation to the principle of subsidiarity. So if that's the approach, then I think that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has to knock his mfs into place so that they do not talk very well about forced maternity, but instead talk critically about that coming from the European Union and then perhaps suggest that this is something we have to challenge in a court of law because it is something that goes beyond the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103207	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103209	There is simply no suggestion of coercion in this. There's no compulsion in this, there isn't. And I just want to remind you that if you think it's coercive and that it's interfering in family affairs, it just annoys me. I have been a member of the Folketing for 10 years and 3 weeks. During the 10 years and 3 weeks, there are exactly zero of my colleagues who have tabled proposals to remove the 14 weeks of earmarked maternity leave for mother. No one has proposed it. It was okay. Then 11 weeks come to Dad, and then baby dies. Then it's all bad, then it's all awful. Well, what kind of double standards and hypocrisy is that? Either you're against earmarking or you're not. The second is discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103252	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103255	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you very much for your very good cooperation with the Left and with the other blue parties in the negotiations on the agricultural agreement that we landed on Monday. I think that is a good thing for everything else, and hopefully we will also be able to work together broadly in the blue block. So thank you for that. Then I am glad that we are now in the midst of some of what is, after all, a nuclear citizen, both when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen talks about more free choice, and when the rapporteur himself highlights it as an important part of our society, where we have set out so that we pay tax money for core welfare and we must continue to do so. But today it is the case that politicians are deciding how the core welfare should be designed for all of us. So it will be such a one size fits nobody instead of saying: let the money follow the citizens. So they can vote with their feet so that they can have the competition both between public and private institutions that makes you want to get up, be innovative, creative and come up with new solutions. And those who don't bother can turn the key around. Will the Left contribute more not only to giving free choice between public and private institutions, but also to ensuring that the money follows the citizens more closely so that they can vote with their feet, and so that it has a consequence for the public institutions such as the nursing home in Aarhus, which is mistreating its residents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103414	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103415	I would simply like to invite all my good blue colleagues to the national meeting of the Left, which is taking place this weekend. Laughter It may be you just need to watch it on TV. It's gonna be great, it's an anniversary, everything's fine. I think that the issues raised here, including the chairman of the Conservatives, are important. It is something that lies in our DNA and has been doing it for 151 years. Listen, people are different. We must have freedom of diversity. We need more freedom. We need more options. We must have the opportunity to vote with our feet. I sometimes hear this side of the House saying that there is a risk of a private supplier going bankrupt. Yes, you do, instead of just pouring more money into them, and then they continue to do an unworthy treatment. If you do something that's bad, people go away, and then you have to close. That's one part of it. But the second part of that is that all the skilled people working in the public sector must be freed. Those people must be freed not only in 10 municipalities, but in 98, and in 5 regions because they have gone into their professions because they want to help people who need it. Now let's give them room for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103530	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103531	That was a nice answer. And we can do it on Saturday, I say hello from my group. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen That's great. ) We are always ready for a good party. But now that you're so concerned about free elections, the Left couldn't consider when we're talking about maternity leave, even though no one has suggested that we're actually looking at these maternity rules again and then saying: We're completely removing the earmark; we're not interfering with how the families adjust. I myself have been privileged to have a father of my children who took very much maternity leave. That's good for them. I believe that children benefit from being with me both Mom and Dad, but I also believe in • and I know that it is not so woke that there is a difference between what we can do at different times in the child's upbringing, because everything else is equal, that it is the women who are equipped with the breasts, and then there are men who have a little harder to breast-feed. I know that it is controversial to say in today's Denmark that there is biology that is involved in giving birth to children, but could the rapporteur and the Left not consider helping to remove the earmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103631	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103634	Without repeating my previous arguments too much that this is something we need to implement and that we have not had a whiff of being 14 weeks earmarked for mother, I also have to say that I do not measure the level of how bourgeois one is or how liberal one is, how few demands we make on recipients of public services I do not. And I think it's a wrong scale to measure it. We make demands on people who are on cash benefits. We make demands on people who are on cash benefits. We make demands on people who receive benefits from those who go to work. And I don't think that's unreasonable to do here. I simply do not think it is an abuse to say: if you are to receive benefits from the community, we make a few and small demands and give the maximum flexibility to the families. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103726	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103730	Thank you. It is almost a complete picture of the relationship that is so growing up between the Left and the New Citizens' Party it is just before they are going to the national meeting. And I have nothing personal against Mrs. Pernille Vermund and Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and Mrs Mette Thiesen are good colleagues and friends or Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. But I am deeply concerned that the Left is increasingly being dragged around by the agenda of the New Civil and Danish People's Party. It is a problem if bourgeois Denmark cannot discuss politics without there being a Muslim behind the veil in any discussion. Agricultural proposals must be made by putting immigrants in the head; a proposal for adoption which is being tabled here today must also be about telling us that we can be tough on foreigners and against immigrants. The Christian Democrats are slightly opposed to this, and that is why I would like to ask the bourgeois Prime Minister's candidate at least the only one who so far declared that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen sees his task as being to pull towards the middle and pragmatic solutions in Danish politics, yes, thank you! ) or whether it should be locked in cement with the far right.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103856	It is always good to start with the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007103900	Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Jens Rohde, that as far as the National Assembly of the Left is concerned, it is an extraordinary tolerant assembly. Sir. Jens Rohde has also been there several times. And that went about peacefully to a certain point. Listen: I am not put in the world to take a position in relation to others. I am set in the world to be the President of the Left and for the Left to be in its own right. And that is why I am presenting the policy of the Left. Then we have some discussions around, both with red parties and with blue parties. I think that is good; I think that is fruitful. Well, we're gonna have to split up, and I think that's fine. But what I am presenting is the policy of the Left. These are the things we mean, and that is not so measured in terms of saying that now we should also say something over here and something over there. When you make a text for adoption, it is clear that then you have to stand together; then you have to give a little and buy a little, cut a heel and cut a toe. And that's why we all have a say in this. This does not mean that I cannot vouch for the text contained in the proposal for adoption, but apparently the so-called Blue Party Christian Democrats cannot. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104004	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104006	No, we cannot do that, and it was the same with the proposal, because if it is always about the only way to finance your initiative is to beat foreigners on top of your head, or that a text always has to be written in that we should address foreigners and immigrants as the problem in society and the only problem almost we have, then we are not part of the equation that is absolutely right. This does not mean that we do not want to see a bourgeois-liberal prime minister after the next elections, but it should not be on a policy dictated by the Danish People's Party or New Citizens. That is why we are just appealing to the Prime Minister's candidate to perhaps look a little over the middle when politics is to be made, and not just dance after the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' pipe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104057	We don't use cheat words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104059	I understand that I'm an excellent dancer, but I'm not dancing after anyone's pipe in here. I am the President of the Left; I am presenting the policy of the Left. I work with those who want to cooperate with me; I work with those who want to cooperate with the Left. And if the Christian Democrats want it, then peace be with it. But with regard to the fact that foreign policy is the only important thing and where Mr. Jens Rohde refers to today's adoption text, I am curiously holding it in my hand, and so there are six paragraphs, and it is true that the bottom one affects foreigners. This does not mean that it is the only important thing in our terminology or that it is the only thing we are talking about or that someone has to be fought on top of his head. I mean, don't do these fake enemy images. There is no reason to do so, especially if you want to be part of the blue family.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104148	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104151	Thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. I would like to ask whether the President of the Left can tell us what the tax freeze on the Left costs, i.e. whether there are any consequences for the room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104207	What does the left tax stop cost? Indeed, it costs citizens to be able to look forward to clarity about what they have to pay in taxes, that companies can look forward to what they have to pay in taxes and that they have a guarantee that taxes and taxes will not be increased. Then we have an exception, which is about tobacco taxes... that's the only tax in Denmark that I don't think is too high... and then we have an exception, which is that we want to move something around when it comes to the environment and when it comes to climate. We would like to be able to make a green tax reform so that we get less of what we do not want and more of what we want. So our tax freeze costs nothing but something positive in the trust account.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104255	Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104257	When I ask, it is because it has become an ultimate requirement and a way to run away from this welfare promise, and if you look at, for example, indexing environmental, energy and registration taxes, and if you do not index, as provided, we are missing half a billion dollars in 2025. That is why it is interesting, and when I ask, it is because the Left has not said what should actually be indexed and what should not be indexed • what is actually covered. In 2002, I think it was, there was a 9 page long note on how to interpret the tax freeze. Now there is confusion about what it means, and yet it is an ultimate requirement. That's why we get the idea that it's probably really about you wanting an excuse to run away from the promise you made to the Danes about welfare. And it is interesting, then, that the President of the Left does not answer whether it has any impact on the room for manoeuvre, if the tax freeze of the Left is implemented in the form that the Left has made it, but as the rest of us do not know what is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104355	I am so pleased to be able to contribute to informing Members about society and the Left. That is why I have made a print of the left's tax freeze, which I would like to fold a little like a pamphlet and hand over to Mr. Jens Joel after. I can't read it out, because time doesn't leave me, but I'll show it. We have referred in the past to websites and all sorts of other things. You couldn't find that in the Social Democracy, and now you get it on print in a slightly more analogue version, which is a little more up-to-date. Listen: To say that you have to earn money before you spend it is not to run from a welfare vow, that is to stand on it. That is to say that we must be able to afford the welfare of the future without our children being in debt. It's responsible. It's totally responsible. I don't understand what's all the fuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104444	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104447	Thank you very much. I am probably the one on this side of the House who mostly welcomes the answers from the rapporteur, because I was so delighted that it is not only my husband who wears gloaches when it rains. I understand that the rapporteur of the Left is also dressed. But I also liked the speech because the climate filled something. That is why I think that my question is purely formal. In the spring, the government, together with the support parties, made an agreement that we should have a milestone in 2025 for a 50-54 per cent reduction. That's what the Climate Council has recommended. This autumn we will then table a bill, and I just want to make sure that the Left can, of course, support that bill and a sub-target of 50-54 per cent. in 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104525	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104527	You can actually do that. But I thought it was a strange way to run this, so we weren't invited. Well, we've made a climate law together, and we're doing these things together. We adopt things in the various areas together, and then you sit down on the government side and say: we don't want to talk about this with responsible people; we settle with our friends, and then we sit down and set this goal. It's no shame not to go to a party that you're not invited to. But, of course, we can back this up. We can do that. It's not a problem. But why on earth was it that we weren't supposed to be in that conversation? Is that what the Prime Minister means by having a democratic conversation? Or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104605	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104607	After all, I am pleased that the Left has agreed to a partial target of 50-54 per cent. Then the negotiations will be a little easier for the climate minister. Then, of course, the Left could also agree to the transport agreement. There you were both invited and had the opportunity to live up to your green words, so why don't you take the 2 million? t CO 2 It works really well out there and makes the Danes now buy electric cars and that we get the transport sector changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104634	I think there are a few problems with the transport agreement. I am sorry that we are not here because we actually had some improvement proposals. But what makes us not part of this is that the funding will only apply until 2025 and then we will have to see where the money will come from. That is not the way we make economic policy. Then I think it is a pity that it is considered as an improvement in the climate that more people will think in Germany. It is simply the case that we are more in line with our objectives if more thoughts are given in Germany. It is climate nationalism and it is not right. We cannot regard Denmark as such a country that lives in a cheese bell, where it is said: as long as it goes elsewhere, it is not our problem. The same thing was being done in the agricultural and food sectors. Thank God we prevented that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104719	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104725	Thank you, Madam President. I think there are a great many Danish families for children, especially future families for children, who are somewhat puzzled by the approach adopted by the Liberal Group to the question of deciding on the so-called compulsory maternity leave for men for these 11 weeks. If the men don't choose the maternity leave, the 11 weeks are gone. There are many who think it is an abuse because, in an unprecedented way, you start going in and botanising in what rights the Danish families of children should have. I am somewhat provoked by the fact that the rapporteur and the party chairman of the Left here today make a question of whether it is raining or not. I think it is a little simplistic to make this a matter of whether you should just lie down flat and say that it comes from the European Union, we have nothing to do with that, never mind. Why should a nation state like Denmark say nothing when there are some rules that I know employers' associations and business organisations have agreed on? But this is a Parliament too, and we are sitting in here because we are elected by the citizens to make important decisions, and it cannot be an important decision to make a decision like this, where you take away responsibility from the Danish families of children. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: is the Left no longer a liberal party?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007104851	Yes, and I can elaborate on it: we are the Danish Liberal Party, and we are simply so proud of that. I do not measure the degree of liberalism, how few demands are made on people who receive public services. That's what I said before, and I still mean that. I think that a society like the Danish one, where we have such a well-developed welfare that we can say to each other that we would like to support the maternity leave, the time we have with our very young children, to an extent that allows parents to actually keep up to 1 year free together with their children on behalf of other people, is a generous society. I think it's amazing that we think it's wonderful. The only counterclaim you make here is to say: Listen, you get all this time, but please share, so that you get 11 weeks each; the rest you also have to share, but you can exchange between each other. It is being set up as if it were a requirement, as if it were a restriction. However, there is no requirement for father to take 11 weeks' maternity leave, and there is no limit to taking only that proportion of the wolf. You have to have maternity leave for years. There's just a limit to what other people have to pay for what you don't do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105006	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105008	In other words, it is really illogical to me that it has become liberal Left policy to take the decision-making powers away from the citizens, away from the Danish families of children. The rapporteur also says that this is a generous offer. What is generous about taking decision-making powers away from the families of children? Yes, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, just a few seconds ago the rapporteur used the word generously and I would like to say that this is not generous. But it's an assault.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105044	I think the rapporteur probably does not deliberately or in bad will mix my sentences a tiny bit together, i.e. it is a generous society. But then listen: It is a generous society that can afford to say to parents: Dear friends, together you must spend a year with your newborn child; congratulations on it; you can spend a year together while the rest of us pay for it. That's generous. It just is. You don't see this generosity in many other places outside Scandinavia, and I think it's generous, and I don't think it's illiberal. However, I am chairman of the Danish Liberal Party, and I do not think it is illiberal to say to people who receive a service that we make some demands on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105132	Thank you. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105137	Thank you. I'd like to get back to this tax-stop thing, because I thought, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was a little unclear earlier. Can we just get it one more time? What will it cost if the tax freeze is introduced, the tax freeze that we cannot really find out what contains? But what will it mean here and now and for the room for manoeuvre in the long run if the Left's tax freeze is introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105203	I am simply so sorry that the Social Democratic Party still does not understand it, and that is also why I have offered to deliver this print to Mr. Jens Joel afterwards, and then you can look over each other's shoulder and get smarter on Left policy. Listen, we have a tax stop where we tell the citizens that you should be able to count on what you have in your hands. And then you start to sky up about that uh, how much it costs etc.? How much does your welfare law cost? We have a welfare promise that we say we want to finance. How much does this welfare law cost? What does it cost, regardless of income, to charge you any expenses that may come forward? How much is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105245	Thank you. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105248	Now I am not the one standing on the platform to answer questions, but that is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who has the task and, contrary to the vow of the Left, which was given to the electorate and from which they have now run, we must understand that we will, of course, come up with a plan for funding. But can't we just get back to the tax stop thing? And we do not know what the Left's tax freeze means, but if it means that all taxes and taxes are frozen, so that they are not indexed either, then it will leave a hole in the treasury. Isn't that right? But is that how the Left's tax stop is supposed to be understood? I think the voters would like to know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105325	Listen, there's something comical and embarrassing about it that keeps referring to the fact that you don't know what it means. No, but it's not my fault you can't read. Oh, come on. Now I've printed this, and I'll bring it down, and we can also go through it. It is rather educational, there are five points, and I can go over it. It's been on our website. I mean, it's publicly available information, and you shouldn't coquet on the fact that you don't know it. Ignorance is not a virtue. It just isn't. But listen, we have this because we think people should be allowed to count on what they have. It is true that taxes are frozen and that taxes are also frozen, with the exceptions that are here, and I can read them out if I have one more question about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105409	Thank you. Last of all, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105413	But then the rapporteur is not asked about it again. I would like to ask you something about which the rapporteur knows something, or which he should at least know about as former Minister for the Environment, and that is our groundwater. We saw yesterday that until now there are pesticide residues in 63 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. I would therefore like to hear from the Left whether they will help to protect not only those areas close to boreholes, but also those areas where groundwater is formed. The Danish Nature Conservation Association has been out of this demand for groundwater packages, and we have submitted a proposal from the SF on how to turn it together. I am actually curious whether the Left will also help to protect clean drinking water for future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105511	I have such a super nice cap upstairs in my office on top of the Presidency, where it says "The DRINK WATER" board. This was given to me by the Danish Nature Conservation Association because I introduced a spray ban on what is called borehole protection areas, i.e. where the problem is the most serious. That is what the rapporteur also refers to. One of the things that is quite unique and that people always stand like this and lift their eyebrows off, if they come from the big country, is that you just go to the faucet, and then you sure drink what comes out, and it doesn't even taste like chlorine. We simply need to maintain that and we need to maintain it in a way that does not have to clean or add chlorine, etc. So let us look at what we can do to protect our drinking water, our groundwater better. We are very prepared to do so, and the history we have shows that we have acted on this earlier, and we are happy to do so again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105558	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105601	That's nice to hear, and I'm glad that the cap still exists. I remember seeing the rapporteur with it. But it is absolutely, absolutely necessary that we extend this here, and it is not just in the drilling areas, because we can see that where groundwater is formed, there is also where the spray poison enters the groundwater. So I am glad that we are in favour of this, and I hope, of course, that we will wholeheartedly support the good proposals that have been made, not least what we have tried to draw attention to ourselves, and I look forward to discussing it further with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105634	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105636	Thank you. And I look forward to this discussion. This is a problem, especially because much of what we can do is forward-looking, but there are some things that lie quietly and sink down, the sins of the past that are often talked about, and that applies both to things that are banned today, and to things that have been used as paints that have been used as protection against you and that. I am not saying this to neglect what we have to do, because of course we have to do something forward, but I am just saying that this is not a problem which, whatever we do, will be resolved tomorrow, and that is why, unfortunately, it is something we need to keep an eye on continuously. I also remember that during my ministry there were drinking wells that had to be closed because they were thus contaminated, and that is not funny, because this is certainly an important Danish value.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105719	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007105733	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his opening speech on Tuesday. On Tuesday the Danish Parliament opened, and we all showed up in anticipation, from a four-month summer vacation, where we had been lying along, and now we had to get back to work. The opening of the Folketing is a feast day where the Queen with the royal family comes and where everything is decorated. It's a day you just never get tired of, I guess. We started with a little special service, and I shouldn't hide the fact that I was delighted that the organist finally played • In Denmark I was born • because it's just so good, and I actually missed singing it to the service itself. But enough about it. Back to the PM's speech on Tuesday. In fact, it had a very good introduction with the pictures on the retina of black woodpeckers, wild orchids, heat landscapes, yes, Denmark lovely. But forgive me that I also saw later in the speech that there was such a mess about it. One example: the Prime Minister put in the speech on Tuesday in a fight with the tech giants to ensure that we set the framework for the democratic conversation ourselves. But if there is a place where the Prime Minister has very special abilities, then I should say hello and say that it is precisely to use the platforms of the tech giants to control the conversation. Or conversation and conversation, we should rather call it the monologue, i.e. ensure one-way communication to the Danes. Or what about the passage of the speech that political agreements should contain how agreements will work for citizens and businesses? That sounds really sympathetic. But hey, the day before, that is to say on Monday, we made a very, very large cooperative folk regime, and thank you for that, because it was really fantastic, a hugely important agreement on the green conversion of agriculture. In that agreement, do we tell you how it will work for citizens and businesses? Not at all. But since this particular point was so important to the Prime Minister on Tuesday, why was it not really so important on Monday? So there are a number of things that come from the government, which must therefore sound oh so good, but which may only be said, precisely because it must sound oh so good, and not because it really needs to be implemented in the real world, in the real world. Take the example of the foreign warriors. Last night 3 mothers, 14 children landed here in Denmark. They were actively brought to Denmark by the government on the taxpayer's account, and here in Denmark appointed taxpayer-paid lawyers are ready to help. Psychologists, children's experts, who set up reception centres around the country at the taxpayer's expense, but what did the Prime Minister say earlier about bringing foreign fighters to Denmark? Well, earlier this year, the Prime Minister said among other things, and I quote: I'm sorry, but sometimes the issues of IS are like people who have been on holiday, that is, people who have joined the Islamic State, the caliphate, may have been involved in armed opposition to the democratic world, including Denmark, they have turned their backs on Denmark, and they have nothing to do in Denmark anymore. Quote out. Now they've landed last night. These are foreign fighters, as the Prime Minister said earlier this year should not be helped to Denmark. They had turned their backs on Denmark, they have nothing to do in Denmark anymore. The government's support parties are already in the process of demanding more to Denmark. We will certainly come back to that. The government decided to evacuate from Afghanistan, but the government spoke a few months ago about a few, perhaps about 100, and today the government has picked up in the vicinity of 1,000 for Denmark, and when it was all going to take place so hastily, the government has also just brought 2 here, which we otherwise laboriously had been expelled for crime. One had even been deported forever. The most likely thing now is that these people, including these two people who were actually expelled, will live the rest of their lives in Denmark on the taxpayer's account. Or what about the new exit center, the approximately 130 exiled criminals? When the government wanted to move them to Langeland, they promised guards to the shops, fences to the neighbors, alarm systems, but then they gave up Langeland, because there was a lot of resistance, understandably enough, but then they promised that help would come to Kærshovedgård in Central Jutland, which is still home to the problems, but more than four months later nothing has happened. It is simply unheard of, and it seems as if it is a little irrelevant to the government in terms of content, as long as you have spoken and worked so well in your talk to the Danes. But the Danes are abandoned. Or what about the promises to the Danes of the Syrians who came to Denmark in 2015 and 2016 had to return as soon as possible? Even the majority of Syrians that the Refugee Board assesses can come back and get a residence permit again, just now after other paragraphs, stay here in Denmark. Was that what the Prime Minister had before the last election in view of the Danes? No, it was definitely not. So there is a very nice speech, but one must therefore be judged by its actions, and here we have to note that when it comes to foreign policy, the government actually seems weak to say what it knows the Danes want to hear, but is pursuing a policy that should make the left-wing support parties happy. I am worried that in the same way we will see the government act when it comes to health and the elderly, two crucial areas of our welfare society. Health care is in many places kneeling. There is a great deal of frustration among many employees, something that should cause deep concern in here. The medical conflict should have been a warning. But the government has only increased the frustrations in hospitals. The Ventelists are growing. Tens of thousands of delayed operations have piled up. So health reform is urgently needed. Health reform is urgently needed, where employees are shown greater confidence in their professional skills; where there is greater proximity, so that more is done locally. The new super hospitals have great expertise, and as Danes we want to move when we really need specialists. But we would like everything else to be resolved more closely. Therefore, offers in the local area must be more. But it takes staff. This requires that it is attractive to work in the specialised hospital or in the local health centre. That is why there must be much more focus on picking out the good people we have, including in the public sector. A good health service also requires that we get rid of the insidious user charges. In fact, we did so with the 2019 Finance Act, but after the current government has arrived, yes, the user fee has crept back in. In my view, this is a slippery slope and completely contrary to the often-held bowl speeches. When it comes to the elderly, there really is a need for more focus. Within the next 5-10 years we should all know the numbers... we'll probably be 150,000 more +80-year-olds. And many of these good countrymen can take care of themselves, but many also need help. And who will ensure the care and care of these very many Danes who need help? In these years, the majority in this House are rolling out minimum standards in relation to children, and that is very sympathetic. But then, according to the law, the municipalities must also provide a given staff to the children's area. And what if there aren't enough people? Do we really risk taking care of the people who would otherwise have helped us in the care of the elderly? That is why we need to raise the question: do we not have to have minimum standards in the area of the elderly at the same time as minimum standards in the area of children? In other words, we do not want to make sure the children know that the grandparents are left behind. Many challenges right now are about lack of labour. Whether we are talking about the public sector or whether we are talking about the business sector, which basically guarantees the income that provides the money for welfare, there is something to be done. But there are also obvious paradoxes in this debate about the shortage of labour. For while many are screaming at labor, many seniors look left on the platform and do not feel in demand. But if the seniors do not feel in demand, how can we justify raising the retirement age, as a majority in this House has also decided? And is there really the shortage of labour as it is said? Recently, a study documented that one out of every five companies opts out of seniors in job search. They are rejected only on the basis of the certificate of baptism. If these companies were really so desperate in their lack of labour, they would probably take the chance, so just say that we are having a conversation with those who are a little older. Or what about the government's plan to do thousands of artificial jobs because they want to show people with a foreign background that you have to do something for your performance? Why do we not instead demand that these people take the jobs that companies say they can't get occupied? Many of the jobs that are said not to be filled are unskilled jobs in restaurants' kitchens, hotels, etc. Instead, however, the government is now proposing to set the job centres in motion by creating thousands of artificial jobs that ordinary employees at job centres need to spend their time creating to activate some people who apparently do not take the jobs that companies say there are. It doesn't seem right. So there are a lot of important things in the new parliamentary year. In the Danish People's Party we look forward to the work and to the cooperation. We are going to make a large number of proposals. We start with a joint proposal with Inger Løjberg on an immigration law, where we copy the main idea from the Climate Act. We set ourselves a goal that 70%. of the foreigners who do not contribute and want Denmark to emigrate by 2030. We hope that the proposal can be supported, so that, for example, the foreigners who commit crime can see that their future is not here in Denmark. Then we can really meet the Danes' expectations of us. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007110821	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alexander Grandt, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007110825	The climate rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messersschmidt, stated in April 2020 that Denmark should downgrade its climate ambitions. That is why I just need to hear from the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party is still behind the climate agreement and the target of a 70-percent reduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007110848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007110849	Yes, the Danish People's Party does. We agree to the agreements we make. We are also working hard to implement them. Clearly, that figure is 70%. In 2030, of course, a figure you can discuss is in relation to why it is exactly that. Well, why isn't it 68 percent? or 72%. By 2030? Or you can also have a discussion about it, if we say 2029 and we then only reach it in 2031 what then? It is just to say that it is more important that we try to focus on how we achieve the good climate targets, rather than having somebody else, I think, strange debate about whether it is exactly on a certain date that one reaches some particular percentage.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007110931	Here you go, sir. Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007110933	I do not understand the concern of the Danish People's Party. After all, we are already halfway in line with what has been adopted and the policies that have been presented. And given the UN's latest climate report, it is probably quite clear that we must achieve the 70% target. Why does the Danish People's Party shake hands like this compared to reaching 70%.? Why are you questioning that particular objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111004	But we have the ambition that we should retain jobs in Denmark for the Danes and that we should maintain a society where we have growth and development, and if we are to achieve a certain percentage, we should, for example, know that we have to. exporting jobs out of the country and then not solving the world's global climate challenges, but just being dogmatic in relation to some particular figure, that is a bad thing. That is also why, in the Agriculture Agreement, we have focused on developing; we should not dismantle production in Denmark. I was also hoping that this was the starting point of the social democracy in this whole debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111033	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111036	Thank you very much, and thank you very much, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for a good speech. Of course, the area of the elderly fills it should be strange if it is not filled with the Danish People's Party; I know that it always does and it is good. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions some of the solutions that can be seen in the Danish People's Party. In the Left we have a proposal for a free nursing home in all municipalities in Denmark. Is this an ambition that the Danish People's Party will support, so that the elderly also have a real free choice everywhere in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111108	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111110	Thank you. I think that where people actively take part in the development of new offers, it is excellent. Whether it is a free school or a free nursing home, we often have some involvement in such an institution, which makes you really focus on the quality of what is provided, so that the elderly, who are in a free-care home, feel very comfortable. And that is why we have no ideological relationship whatsoever with this, that is to say whether it should be one or the other. What matters to us is how the elderly feel; how to ensure that the elderly, who need help and care, are in the best position to do so. If anyone wants to make a free-care home as an offer to our older citizens, then we are very happy and happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111148	Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111149	Thank you. After all, I believe that home-care is one of the possibilities of de facto free choice; that you can vote with your feet and say that this is not what you wanted or that you can say as a relative: this is not what we wanted for our parents. And that's why I just want to hear about Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl shares the ambition that there is this really free choice in all municipalities, and not only in some municipalities, but that you really have a place to go if you are not satisfied with the offer that may be, regardless of how well that offer can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111235	Yes, I certainly do. But the reason I am just putting in some nuances is that I do not think that they can be exempted from guaranteeing the quality of the municipal nursing home that is in a municipality. Because there are also some places where the restrictions on how many there can be in a nursing home limit the choice of the individual that you can no longer choose that free-care home, because there are no more places available there, but it is now and here that you need care and care in a nursing home, so this problem will also arise. It is over time that one can have a theoretical debate about whether there is that option. But for the individual in a given situation it may well be that you do not have the option; there is the municipal nursing home offer, and then we must ensure, among other things. also with a stronger involvement of relatives that the quality is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111317	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111318	Thank you. There are more and more children who are miserable in the Danish primary school and I think that one of the reasons for this is that we have created a primary school, which has a very rigid framework and which pushes some of the children who do not learn best by sitting on a long school day with their ass in the seat without getting out...
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111344	Well, I don't really think that expression is right, and it's been mentioned once before in this debate and it's not even funny.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111348	I'm sorry, and it wasn't really the intention to be flabby. I'm sorry. They sit with their butt in the seat and don't get what they should have had out of school day. When a school student is finished in primary school, the student has had 49%. Humanist subjects, 29%. scientific subjects and approx. 6% practical subjects, and then I don't think it's so strange that some of these kids who just like practical things don't feel good in primary school. But I also find that the Danish People's Party is one of the parties that has difficulty giving the school time off, which has difficulty accepting that you could do school in a different way, so does the President agree that some of these children who have the best way of learning with their hands will have the best of having another school day?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111432	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111433	I fully agree that there is a part of our children who may even have a great deal of benefit from having something practical as introduction to learning and learning in a completely different way. We have been discussing this for years; we have been talking about how to make sure that when you need mathematics, for example. can go out and measure the speed of cars or whatever it may be, because the more you can tie things up on something practical, the better. We have also discussed how we can ensure, for example, that the local business community has a greater role to play in relation to the school, so that you get the touch with what you might not get in a home with academic parents, in other ways, so that the young people who really want not just to go to high school like all the others, but for example. It is a question of how to take a vocational training course and how to do it. And I mean, there's plenty we should do there. We have been talking about this for years, but we can discuss whether it is some of the things that work out in the practical world. And what method it takes to ensure that is certainly something Dansk Folkeparti really wants to discuss with the Danish Parliament's other parties and also with SF to find out how we do it. We agree on the objective, but what is the right way to go about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111541	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111542	Some of it, like mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions that is what cannot be done, namely the coming out and the setting up of teaching in different ways, because you have tightened so much from in here with rigid learning goals and with test and exam requirements that make it difficult to do something completely different for the students who need it. A catch that we know from the coronate is to say: we do not decide what the minimum hours of the subjects should be. We trust the schools and say they have to make the school day that makes sense for the kids out there... we set the schools free. We could decide to do that more permanently. Will the Danish People's Party help to free schools more from these rigid minimum hours and learning goals, so that you can do what is best for the children locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111625	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111627	Now I think we should be careful not to discuss too much in here in such a way that those who sit and listen to it think that it seems quite strange. 'Cause if I had to take it, sir. Jacob Mark just said, at face value, I should go home to my local primary school and tell them what they're doing, they can't do it. For some of the examples I mention, for example, on how to use them. Trying to teach mathematics using practical tasks, which means learning the theory behind it much better, are actually examples that I have from my local primary school. So it is often also a question of whether teachers have the surplus needed to find alternative ways of doing so. And as I say, there must perhaps be stronger cooperation with the local business community, which also opens the eyes of young people to what opportunities there are, so that they do not become too narrowly thoughtful in relation to their own choice of youth education after primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111714	Thank you. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111716	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said it was about how it is really important to focus on it. For many years now, you may have had the feeling, and it may be a little sloppy, but I say it in nice words that the Social Democrats were like necking after the Danish People's Party. Now it seems to be a little reversed in some areas, but I hope that in the climate field it will not be the case that the Danish People's Party will be light years after the Social Democrats, because, as you know, they have only just eased the end of the debate. So in relation to a fund, a climate fund, for aviation with a climate contribution to aviation as the climate partnership proposed by the industry itself: Where does the Danish People's Party stand in relation to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111814	We've fully joined this fight. We take full part in it and we are taking part in the agreements in here, which are intended to bring us forward in the green transition. And we welcome the fact that sometimes politicians are not really the decisive ones here. What happens in the real world is often, regardless of our positions in here, farther ahead than we are. So, when Adidas starts producing all their shoes almost sustainably, is it not because it is a regulatory requirement, then it is because consumers demand those products, is it not? We just have to hold on to that, and that's good. As far as airlines are concerned, we fully agree that the change in air traffic is that we find another fuel on which they can fly, and they are in full swing with that. Research is being carried out, and we are very, very much in favour of supporting this development, because, as was said earlier by the President of the Left, and we share that in DF, what is the objective, of course, is not that we have to change our whole way of life. It is, of course, in reality that we can live the life we want to live while doing so in a way that also protects our planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111915	Thank you. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111916	I fully agree with that. It's just not about either a better life or a greener life. It is a greener and better life that we must offer to all citizens. I also very much agree that it is certainly not Christiansborg that has taken the lead, but is often behind in relation to business and the world out there. I think they'll recognize that. Perhaps we could then at least try not to prevent us from achieving the green targets, because we are actually standing in the way of this area, and this will require us to support such a green aviation fund. I hear it as close to a promise from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and I just want confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111958	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007111959	Well, even to the extent that we have talked to people in industry, in other words air transport, we have said that we are helping to support that development in the way we can. It should be borne in mind that it is both air transport, but it is also within our maritime transport; there we also have huge opportunities. And later it will also come in relation to the whole of our transport sector, in which it can really be imagined that there is something here that might almost overtake this whole discussion that it should all be electric cars. So what we might see in front of us is really, really exciting, and I think we don't even know what it's going to offer yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112041	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112044	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the speech. There is simply something that really puzzles me. If there is something that the Danish People's Party has always been vigilant about, it is of course the value of Danish citizenship. The people who came home last night, like Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself mentions in his speech, are Danish citizens. Then we'll have Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl nevertheless wonders that the 14 children, who are Danish citizens, we must be careful. So it strikes me as slightly double moral, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112119	This is not the first time we have this discussion, Mrs Rosa Lund, and it is probably not the last time in this whole debate either. The Enhedslisten has always pressed for not only these, but in fact many more of those who are in Syria to go to Denmark. I think there is a limit to what we should put up with. If people, with Danish citizenship, go out into the world to join an Islamist caliphate from which to fight Denmark, then I think there is some time when we have to say that then we are over in the category where we can call people traitors. Should we then accept that people can be protected by Danish citizenship? We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. Then there has been this discussion that those who have dual citizenship should not come to Denmark, because there you can take Danish citizenship from them because they have another to fall back on. There are then one of the three women who last night were transported to Denmark on behalf of Danish taxpayers and whose lawyers are now ready to accept on behalf of Danish taxpayers, and this whole show, which is now going on and which also has a different citizenship from the Danish one, but has just gone back to Denmark. Then Mrs Rosa Lund could not say whether we could agree that this is a mistake and that that person should not have been helped to Denmark again?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112229	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112231	I don't think that's surprising, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that we will not agree on that today either. But what we agree on in return is that there are limits to what to put up with. As Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl probably well knows, one of our colleagues and his parents was verbally attacked out in front of Christiansborg on Tuesday. It was a very terrible situation, I think, and unfortunately it is not an isolated situation. In fact, more than 5,000 hate crimes have been committed, which have been racistly motivated in Denmark. It shows figures from the Ministry of Justice; that is the Ministry of Justice's own figures. Yet only 312 have ever been reported. So I think this shows that we have a pretty big problem with racism and hate crimes in Denmark, and I would just like to know whether Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party agree, and whether you think we should do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112328	I thought it was absolutely awful to see what happened on Tuesday. I don't think it should happen to anyone, and I think it's sad, even when you bring your old parents in here, to have to experience it there. I strongly reject that. In any case, as regards Tuesday, I think that it was also a scandal with those who, in quotation marks, were climate activists and who made us not normally able to walk out of the church entrance but had to be smuggled out of a back door in the church. I really think it is a scandal that we have reached that point in Danish society. I think that we as legislators should be able to commit ourselves. We must accept the displeasing that may be in relation to our political work. One has the right to gather and also to demonstrate against what we do and so on, but we must also be able to function in everyday life, and all members of parliament must do so. Whether I agree politically with them, they must also be given the opportunity to commit themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112415	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112420	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I'd like to get back to the senior area. I shall be the first to acknowledge that if anyone has fought for the good conditions of the elderly, then it is the Danish People's Party for many, many years. But I don't think it's gonna matter that there's more of us on the case. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party will help us to look at doubling the rock card scheme for the elderly so that we can give people more freedom in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112449	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112451	No, finally - come here, come here. The more people who fight for the best interests of the elderly in Danish society, the better. After all, the cutting-card system is exactly a great model, which we had previously introduced into a financial law. After all, we worked together on, among other things. the clipboard system, and the funny thing was that since it was a statutory system that all municipalities had to comply with, all elderly people throughout the country were entitled to this clipboard scheme if they met the conditions. However, when it was laid out to the municipalities themselves, it began to see that the municipalities were saving on the scheme, starting to cut the scheme away. We think this is really, really sad, and that is why we would like to see the cutting-card model introduced by law, so that it applies everywhere in Denmark, and we would also very much like it to be improved in scope. Because that is a way we can give the elderly some dignity in which they are given more freedom to decide for themselves what they really need in the time they make available to society, so that they have the best possible life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112545	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112546	I must also, as a former mayor, break down and confess that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has such a point: the problem has sometimes been that when the schemes go in over the frame, we see that something else is happening to them. We need to discuss this further. Then I would like to know whether Dansk Folkeparti will help us create this independent unit that will be able to calculate the municipalities' tariffs. The municipalities sometimes tend to show how inexpensive a home helper class is, so it is hopeless for private suppliers to bid in. It is not really about whether it should be municipal or private. It must be about the elderly being able to have a real free choice. That's where I think we need some independent people checking those prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112629	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112630	That was part of the bureaucracy proposal. Well, sorry, that was a side remark. But that is the challenge. We would very much like transparency. We would very much like to see it through, and it must be quite simple if we are to have the opportunity to choose something from and something else. Therefore, we would very much like to discuss further how to put something like this into practice. So there are many ways to develop the elderly. I also mentioned in my speech here earlier that I could see that the government staff were being moved around a little, I think, when I mentioned that there had been user charges sneaked in through the back door. But that is what happens by the fact that the municipalities create seats in which people are then helped when they, for example, are helped. has come from the hospital. So instead of being in the hospital a long time ago, you go to a former home, you don't come home quite always, because you're not ready to come home, and then you come to a municipal designated place. And then suddenly user payments come into the picture, and we don't like that in the Danish People's Party. That is why we believe that health reform should take this into account, so that we do not sneak user payments through the back door.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112725	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112726	But that is one of the things that is interesting. This is what we are doing with the economy and the way in which we organize it, both in relation to the elderly, but also in relation to a whole range of other welfare benefits and rights that need to be implemented. One of the things that put an end to many of the good things we could actually do is the service ceiling in the municipalities. I remember when I was on the city council in Viborg that we had enough money, but there was a service ceiling, so we couldn't use it. Then we got an older billion, among other things. from the Danish People's Party. Well, then we had to adjust in relation to other services, otherwise we hit the service ceiling. This means that you get gifts from in here that you don't want to have when you're out in the municipalities. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that the service ceiling in the municipalities does pretty much good for the welfare of this society?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112829	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112830	Sir. Jens Rohde raises a completely relevant issue in relation to the way the municipalities can manage their expenses. We actually took it up when we last discussed compensatory reform, i.e. this system of how the money is sent around the various municipalities, so that they have the possibility of providing a similar service. There we said that it is no use simply furnishing the money in relation to the country's municipalities if we do not at the same time ensure that the service ceilings are set up in a different way, so that in fact there is also the possibility of providing better services in a municipality which is now receiving more money. So this is a well-known issue and it is something that has been tangled with. Unfortunately, there was no willingness among the majority in here when we were discussing compensatory reform last time to do something about this. That is why nothing has happened about it, and that is why municipalities are still experiencing exactly what Mr. Jens Rohde mentions. So I think it is a very concrete thing, and if there are more people who would like to go into it and try to find out how to ensure that municipalities can provide the services to the citizens that we would like to have in the municipalities where you really have a problem, a challenge with the service ceiling, then it would really be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112929	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007112931	But it's very simple. Set the municipalities free. We are faced with a municipal and regional elections now. If we set the municipalities free and, moreover, gave the regions a little more muscle, they would be able to do the job. Then you can do it locally. Then you can reconcile expectations and service levels etc. local. That is what is so impossible today, because it is we in here who ultimately sit and decide everything and control it too hard. Will the Danish People's Party help set the municipalities free?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113004	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113006	In concrete terms, when we last discussed exactly these things, we suggested that we should find another way of solving it, in other words, in relation to whether, in some sense, a longer string should be given to the municipalities from year to year, that is to say, that one should look at it over several years, in relation to what was going on. In other words, it is clear that what you are encountering, to put it bluntly, is that the Minister for Finance is sitting and worried at all times about whether you can reasonably keep track of how much public expenditure, whether it is a state, a region or a municipality, spends and seizes. That's how it is all the time. You see if it gets out of hand, so you have to go out and raise your taxes afterwards. That is what you are worried about when you are sitting in a Finance Minister's chair, or that is what you should be worried about. It's just that if you leave the system that we have today, which is too rigid, I agree with that, then you have to discuss how to ensure over time that you don't just get public spending out of control. I have been in office for ten years as chairman of the Committee on Finance, so that is why it pops up a little here, that is to say there is something that needs to be taken into account. Mr. Jens Rohde all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113102	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113104	Thank you. I had actually written down a question from home, but then Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's good speech that I certainly had to revise that question a little here, because I was worried about whether there had been a misunderstanding. I got the impression that sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl believes that it is our ambition that women from abroad should do useful jobs rather than work, and that, of course, is not our ambition. But what is the difference here is that today, seven out of ten women from a number of Middle Eastern countries are on public support instead of being in work, and instead of sitting at home passively and on public support, we think it would be better for them to get into useful jobs and thus to be helped towards getting an ordinary job. Is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl does not agree with it, so that it would be better to get people in that direction than that people, as the conditions are today, and as the conditions have unfortunately been in much of the time when the Danish People's Party has had the crucial votes in this Chamber, sit passively at home and receive a check without being in contact with either the job centre, the cashier or other bodies?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113204	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113205	I fully agree that it is far better to be at work than not to be at work, and it is much better to be told that if you are going to have money from the public purse, provided you can get money from the public purse, then you also have to work. Then it's not an option you have that you can just say thank you for the check and then stay at home. I would also say that the current system should actually contain it, because the current system does indeed require that you receive public services when you cannot find work until the day you can get a job assigned, and that is what you have to take. And if you don't want to take it, the box needs to be slammed in. But it is as if it is not being enforced, and then the Social Democratic Party tries to develop another way to get through by saying to those who work to get our unemployed in jobs: now you have to spend your time trying to create some artificial jobs; it must not be some who take employment from ordinary people, because then it is no good. They're supposed to be artificial jobs. I don't know if we're gonna get the smokes back on, so they can throw some more cigarette shutters out on the beaches, so we can get more to pick them up afterwards. That is where I think there is a paradox when we are now discussing the shortage of labour in relation to unskilled jobs. Why, then, can these people not be obliged to go to the companies and take action there so that we can at least get some benefit from them in the ordinary companies that are lacking people? Well, they say no to orders because they can't get employees. Those two ends, we should be able to reach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113337	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113339	I am pleased that, overall, we agree on the ambition here, because it is true that it is formal today, but unfortunately it is not as it should be. That is why we believe there is a need for some tightening up here. I would also like to ask you something else, for Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said a few years ago:... that human activity means something to climate change. But I just don't think that human influence means anything. I'm just curious to see if it's still gone, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wanted to formulate himself today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113411	No, that is to say, we are also influenced by the scientific studies that are coming forward. We're not immune to facts. And we recognise that man has a greater impact on the climate change that we see. What was discussed earlier was, in particular, the point about whether human activity alone created climate change, and I believe that we all agree that human activity does not. There are also climate change that will happen in any case. But compared to that with the billions of years that it takes to create the oil and gas that we have in the underground, and then we think we can take it up to 100 years and burn it off, and then it has no impact on our planet, I would say, yes, it has. We must do something about this and act on it, and we have entered into it completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113454	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113458	Thank you, President. Sick children are regularly handed over in our day care, while they are still away sick, and of course they infect other children and staff. In SF, we believe that one way to solve the problem is to give parents the right to sickness benefit from the third day of illness. I would really like to hear: is this a model that DF supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113533	I do not really know the model that SF may propose, but we are very much in favour of the basic view that families should have greater freedom to organise how they do best. And if we can give the families a greater degree of freedom in relation to, for example. We are very prepared to discuss whether to stay at home in connection with children's disease. And it is quite right, as the question is put here, that if you send a sick child too early into an institution, you risk infecting all the other children, and then we really just have an even greater challenge than if the child had stayed home for a day or two more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113611	Should I understand that DF is willing to find money for some kind of arrangement where you have the opportunity to stay at home as a parent, so that a right to stay at home is also given?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113626	But that is why I say that we are very open to discussing which model to choose, because there is also a cost to it. But, of course, the cost must be seen and that is what I recognise in relation to the issue, in relation to trying also to avert something that really creates costs. Because it is true that if a sick child goes back too early in the institution and infects the other children, it may have the result that, in reality, other families are burdened with illness. Now, in the case of corona, we saw how important that relationship was. That was the kind of disease, but in general we also have that challenge. And that is why I am saying that we would very much like to discuss this, but then we have to find out what the cost we are talking about and where we are getting the money and all that. That is just the reservation I have just made, that is, of course, that we have to take a look at it. But we would very much like to look at SF's concrete model, and then we have to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113715	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113717	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am very pleased to hear two things in it and also in the answers that have come here: both that the rapporteur is concerned about welfare and that we have to secure and hold our hands under it, and also is concerned about the climate, even if what was asked about earlier by my good colleague was perhaps a little disobeyed ten years ago or more. What I would like to hear now is whether the rapporteur agrees with Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, the chairman of the Danish Liberal Party, who I think a few months ago said that if you have to choose between welfare and climate, you have to spend the money on climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113805	It's quite a contradiction to stand up because now we've just discussed this with climate and how important it is that we make this transition, which makes Denmark's contribution to at least indicating solutions, also for other countries. We're 0.1%. of the problem in relation to emissions, but we should of course be a much larger part of the solution by pointing out ways of reducing the climate impression. So I think it's a little artificial division. In other words, if the climate is important, we are, of course, also willing to spend and put money into it, as we do, for example. In the agricultural agreement on Monday. But it is of course the Danish People's Party's concern that most people know that we have a proper well-being in relation to our elderly people and our health in particular, and that is how we organise the way we spend the money available. It is, of course, that we are putting a lot of pressure on the welfare areas, the core welfare areas where we can see, as I also mentioned in my speech, that if we do not arm up in relation to health, if we do not arm up in relation to our care for the elderly, then we will simply have some major challenges in 5-10-15 years, and therefore it is timely care to do so now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113909	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113912	I do not at all disagree with that conclusion. The problem is just here that it is not more than an hour ago that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, chairman of the Danish Liberal Party, said that he was ready to become Prime Minister, and I assume that if he is to be, there must be some pointers to him; at least there must be some kind of agreement in the Blue Block. Could the rapporteur imagine that the Danish People's Party was part of that consensus?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007113945	In any case, I think it is a good thing that the Social Democrats also think in such a way that there will be a day when they are no longer party to the government, but have handed it over to the bourgeois parties. It's healthy and good. One could almost imagine that the Social Democratic Party had put itself in power and thought that now it lasted forever. So it's very good that you have that thinking. And I am sure that the President of the Left will interpret the text for what he wants, and then I will write out the text for what we want in the Danish People's Party. If the day comes when we will then sit together and find out, then the Social Democrats will have to see how we can find out. At least that's my ambition. We'll find that now. We think that climate is important. I have explained this to you, but we will spend a lot of the money in our room to enhance our welfare, especially in relation to the elderly and health. That is our clear ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114029	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114031	Thank you. Is there really a shortage of labour? The rapporteur asked that in his speech, referring to the fact that there are some seniors who are experiencing discrimination in the labour market. I also hope that the concern which I share also applies to, among others. the women with scarf who are documented must send 60%. more applications to get to a job interview at all. But there is at least a shortage of labour and, among other things, a shortage of jobs. also for welfare workers. It is quite acute, especially in the metropolitan area, where there is a lack of both sosu assistants and sosu helpers. One of the things we in the Radical Left are pointing out to get rid of this is more foreign labour. I have heard the Danish People's Party say that they are not interested in it. But what is the Danish People's Party's solution to the very shortage of labour, especially in these welfare areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114133	But that really comes in the question itself. In other words, we would much rather have the people with foreign backgrounds who are already in Denmark actually working than not working. So we do not like that people with a foreign background who are here have huge problems finding a job. And if it is the case that we lack labour to the extent that it is said, it is exactly as the questioner says here, a paradox that people, whether seniors or people with foreign backgrounds, are already here, find it so difficult to reach a job interview at all. You could guess. In other words, if you would rather as a company or a public institution wait for the 31-year-old to come flying by, which was just the youthful input you would like to have in your company, then you can consider whether you lack labour when it really matters. Because then you would use the manpower we have at our disposal. And as long as we have labour reserves in Denmark, which are not in demand, not even being asked for a job interview, the lack is obviously not so great after all. That is what I would just like to raise a small warning flag here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114231	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114232	I agree that we have that challenge when it comes to seniors and minority ethnic Danes in relation to discrimination, but I do not agree that we do not have an acute shortage of labour. Some of those who could work, among other things. as sosu-helpers and sosu-assists, are some of the foreigners who are actually Denmark and who I a little experience the Danish People's Party is busy getting expelled. But because of the rules, they can't work exactly in these subjects. Will not the Danish People's Party help make it easier for people who are resident in Denmark to work in exactly the subjects sosu-helper, sosu-assistant, where there is an acute deficiency?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114318	However, the people with immigrant backgrounds who have been in Denmark for years and who are not in employment can just get started. Nobody's stopping them from doing that. And then I also got to the point earlier by saying that if they experience that they are looking for jobs but are not being called in for a conversation, then I say that those who claim that they lack labour at that job probably have a little challenge explaining how it is connected, don't they? But now I think that we are going to have a little talk with others: those who have come as refugees and family members, perhaps in recent years, and who we would like to have returned to their country of origin, yes, of course, because refugee policy for us is to help people in a temporary situation. It is not, of course, that they are turned into immigrants in that country. So it is clear that we have one thing. There are thousands of people with a foreign background who have been here for years and who are not in employment, and for their part I simply think that we must have linked this together so that they come in and take up the jobs that companies say they are missing employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114413	Then it's mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114414	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I understand that the great mantra in the area of older people's policy is a free-care home. Against this background, I would really like to ask the rapporteurs: how is it now that the economy of the home home for the care of the children is now intertwined? What is it like that free-care homes are funded? It sounds like a free-care home like that is a place to go, and then you get a much higher standard. But I would like to hear it all the way to the bone: how is it that free-care homes are financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114452	No, I didn't say that home was the big mantra. I said it would be fine if there were committed people who would set up a free nursing home. Then I think that it can provide a fine alternative and that it can give a boost. However, it does not exempt us as politicians from ensuring that municipal care facilities are actually in order. Then I know that when we go into Systemdanmark, there is something like payment in relation to the municipality having to pay money for the free care home, and that is why, of course, there is the discussion, from the municipal side, whether you think it is a good or bad idea in terms of being able to manage things. I am fully aware of that. But when we talk about the principle, about whether it is good that there are some institutions that can be set up, where there is some freedom and where you can make offers to citizens as a complement to the public, then I do not think it is crazy. Well, I actually think it's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114542	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114543	Well, I certainly don't think it's crazy either. I am on the board of a free-care home and I think it is a very good alternative to have. But it sounds like when you talk free-care homes on the blue side, the free-care homes float in resources. They don't. You're being financed, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, with the average of the tariff at the municipal institutions, so there is no possibility of financially giving them anything quite different. So there is simply a difference between the way one draws a picture that free-care homes should thus be the great savior, in relation to which economy one has thus helped to put into the free-care homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114627	No, it was not at all the economic discussion I thought was relevant here, really. I fully agree with that. However, there may of course be some management issues that may be involved in a free-care home, just as we see with free-schools, where you just have to recognise that something is happening. There may be another presence in some way in our home. But we should try to look at this: are there any good things that we can think into the municipal nursing homes as well? Because we have an obligation that it works properly wherever you can get a place as an elderly person because you need care and care and that you get a decent treatment. So the discussion about whether it's good or bad with a free nursing home as a supplement and Mr. Orla Sea itself, I understand, is quite confident that there are such things as this that do not exempt us from ensuring that municipal nursing homes have the quality to be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114719	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114720	Following on from this, I would like to ask how the Danish People's Party views the possibility of making profits on companies in the social sector as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114737	We are very sceptical about the fact that we are making huge profits and running it as such a profitable business. But it is also because when we talk about our care and care, we must remember that it is, we believe, a public obligation to ensure that there are the offers that make everyone feel safe. And that means that where we have a challenge, precisely in terms of care and care, in terms of privatisation, where you say that you take in private suppliers is always that the public sector has to be ready with some sort of preparedness. Because if they fail, you can't tell a nursing elderly person, for example, that we have an offer ready for you in 2 months, so for the next 2 months you'll have to take care of yourself; then we'll be ready again. We have seen this in some municipalities where private individuals have not been able to do the job, and then the municipality should intervene. And it's a very relevant thing, and that's why we don't think that just thinking that it's private and that they should make money on it is the way we think about care and care in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114830	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114833	But then I would like to ask whether there are other social measures, i.e. whether the reluctance to outsourcing and privatisation is in all areas. Or whether it's just in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114855	In other words, we have had a long debate on these institutions which help some of our younger people; there we have had the discussion back and forth. And it is clear that it is also a question of the fact that, in relation to what you have and which is well-functioning, how do you intervene against it and perhaps destroy some of the offers that are there. And we also had the discussion about what if you suddenly destroy what is today in relation to the young people but have no alternative to set up for them? Then there is also a challenge, and that is why we had a long process some time ago, when we were discussing precisely these things that Mrs Jette Gottlieb is raising. And I am fully aware of that, and there were many opposing considerations that had to be weighed there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114926	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Thulesen Dahl. No one else will ask questions, and then we will go over to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who will be able to make his speech before we have a little break here. And, of course, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr is from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007114945	Thank you. I would like to say a few words about the future. It has been said that we cannot escape tomorrow's responsibility by avoiding responsibility today. It's a Lincoln quote. So when I speak today about the future, it is first and foremost a few words about responsibility, responsibility for our children and the future of grandchildren. A few weeks ago, with the UN's latest major climate report, we got the writing on the wall, which has been clear to everyone: we cannot continue as we are now if we are to be responsible for the future if we are to take responsibility for the future of our children and grandchildren. I would like to acknowledge that between the support parties and the government we had an ambitious understanding paper with a clear 70-percent CO2 I would also like to acknowledge that the plans to ensure that we realise the demand must all be negotiated and adopted by 2025. Last but not least, I would like to thank the many parties who, fortunately, chose on Monday to join in that agreement on agriculture. So far, so good. Because, as the Climate Council has pointed out, the government's vision of how we reach the target has so far only identified the absolutely easiest third of the CO2 ice melts, forests are on fire, floods are raging and temperatures are rising. So when it comes to the future, when it comes to accountability, we need to speed up and use the necessary instruments: that we use our duty to act. And there are, for me, two immediate tools that we can use and they need to be used now. First of all, we need to adopt real substantial CO2 This is the most direct route to CO2 and secondly, the current agreement on the contribution of agriculture to CO2 that the professions must contribute effectively and substantially, starting with agriculture, which has not exactly rushed into being if we are to be honest, despite the fact that agriculture represents a large part of our CO2 The next major hardle is the transport industry. If we cannot do that, I do not believe that we, as Parliament, are fulfilling our responsibilities, and then I do not believe that we are managing our duty of action as intended. We are abandoning the future of our children and grandchildren. I would like to say thank you to the blue block, which at the end of the day was included in the agricultural agreement. It was a big and important step, and I know it wasn't easy. So thank you for that. I also hope that with that agreement we have finally passed the point where it is in the air that we do not have to worry so much about the future of the planet. I hope that with that agreement we have finally come past the point where concern for the climate is rejected, that we can safely leave that to the market to fix. I hope we have come on the other side of the line that technology can fix all the problems for us, and I really hope that in future we will not be called climate freaks when we try to take that responsibility on our hands. Yes, both technology development and the market will help us, I agree, no doubt about that. Technology will bring us quite a long way. But this must and must be done in combination with creating the right incentives, and here we politicians have a crucial role to play. The market and the interests of money also have a major influence on where research is being carried out and where technologies are being developed. Fortunately, in Denmark we are favoured by an industry which has largely embraced the green agenda. It hasn't come by itself. It has been a combination of forward-looking politicians, forward-looking NGOs and creative, forward-looking entrepreneurs, so that it borders on a shift of responsibility to claim that technology and the market can stand alone when the process is to be driven forward. We politicians must and must set the course, and we must guard against greenwashing, both in organizations and in companies and in politics. However, I very much hope that together we can find the right political incentives to push those professions that are lagging behind. The Danish success with wind turbines was the result of political decisions and behavioral regulation in relation to the industries on the basis of changed taxes. It was a priority, it is a priority, and that is where we need to go again. We did so together on Monday, and I would like to thank everyone for that. I think we can be proud of that. That is not enough, but it is an absolutely necessary step on the way. I have mentioned our responsibilities for the future and I have mentioned our obligations to future generations. This brings me to something else and something that is entirely in line with what I have been talking about so far, namely children and young people's dissatisfaction. Here, too, we cannot escape tomorrow's responsibility by avoiding responsibility today. Our children and young people's distrust cannot be fixed with new technology or left to the market. It's an epidemic that's upon us. There are thousands of soul - suffering youths, thousands of children and adolescents with self - injury, thousands of youths with anxiety, depression, eating disorders and suicidal thoughts. They have a grievous low self - worth and a deeply worrying lack of joy in life. It is so unhappy to think of, and it must be tragic and incalculable to stand in the midst, both for the young and for the relatives. We can't just look away. We cannot just continue to think that it will solve itself, that it will pass on to them that they will grow out of it. Children's and youth's psychiatric departments are overloaded, parents are deeply despairing. In every class there are a handful of children with diagnoses, and far too many receive no or too late help. Both for the well-being crisis and for the climate crisis, the more we crowd out the problems, the more we put a lid on and look the other way, the harder nature will strike back. This applies to both the great wild nature and the inner nature. The repressed always returns in demonic form, as Freud wrote. Our climate is now turning to us with droughts, forest fires, floods and glaciers melting. And the mind turns against us with depression, anxiety, lack of joy in life, eating disorders and self-harm to an extent that we have never seen before. Both testify that something doesn't work, that something is wrong, and our job is to fix it now. On Monday we managed to get all the parties involved in an agreement on agriculture, so I would like to finish off. I would like to reach out to the Conservative President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Søren Pape Poulsen. We know each other I can see you behind the flowers we respect each other and I know that, despite political and ideological differences, our view of people is not so different. We recently had a rather intense exchange on the distrust of children and young people, and my appeal to the Conservative and Conservative leaders is: we must be able to reach each other in real responsibility for our common future; we must be able to achieve binding targets for other professions, too, in the fight for the climate; we must be able to reach each other when it comes to balancing the future of our children and young people; and we must be able to reach each other when it comes to securing a balanced future for our children and young people. I hope that there is both reason, will and responsibility on the part of the Conservatives to take responsibility for precisely the two major challenges we face. So finally: Thanks to the Prime Minister for her speech on Tuesday and for focusing on girls and women's rights, both in the world and in Denmark. For decades the SF has fought for equality and women's rights in general, but also with increasing intensity fought for freedom and opportunities for girls and women with minority backgrounds. I am therefore incredibly pleased that it will be a broader and more entrenched agenda with the Commission and the work proposed by the government, because this is also about responsibility for the future. If we are not to be a state with more people or a state of conflict between groups, we must and must ensure that all citizens, regardless of ethnic background, enjoy the same freedom and legal certainty. Unfortunately, too many girls and women in certain minority environments are unfairly fighting for their individual freedom to make the big decisions of their own lives. Outside the world, the problems are even greater, and I am therefore delighted that the government's proposal is two-stringed: what can we make of the difference in the world, and how can we do better at home? The work SF looks forward to taking part in. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007115935	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm sorry, sir. The flowers were in the way. Søren Pape Poulsen, but since Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is in favour of green conversion, that is certainly acceptable. We are about to take a break and the first to speak after the break is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical. No, it's changed, because now the different ones are getting into the system. It's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who has the first question after the break, unless there are others who press in. We have to postpone the sitting and we will resume the sitting today at 1 p.m. 13.00. As I said, Mr President, the first person to speak. Kristian Thulesen Dahl with questions to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The meeting is suspended.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130000	The sitting shall resume. We shall continue with the SF rapporteur, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who gave her rapporteur's speech before lunch. Now we continue with brief remarks, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130017	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech here an hour ago. I would like to congratulate the SF on having fought for minimum standards in the field of children, but I would like to focus on the other side of the coin and ask whether it is not a matter of concern in the SF that minimum standards in the field of children in the practical world can be laid down in order to cannibalise workers from the elderly. How will SF ensure that at a time when local authorities are now legally required to comply with certain standards in the area of children, that some of the labour force is not labour we would otherwise have needed in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130055	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130057	I think that is a very relevant question. I think we really have to look at it a lot more with staff... there's such a lot of reverb, isn't there? Or is it just because I have a cold? But it is a relevant question, because what is crucial is whether, when we use resources, for example, we use resources. educational resources for our children, then social educators lose elsewhere, or whether we risk there, for example. can't be sosu assistants to our elders. I am also concerned about this, and that is why the SF supports the government's proposal for a welfare law, so that when we have more elderly people and more children, we can also provide more money for the care that is at the heart of our welfare society. Having said that, there is no doubt that we should look at care for the elderly in particular and ensure that we get a bottom below how many resources should not actually disappear or what can be said, so that there are resources in the care of the elderly. I very much agree with Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl i.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130200	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130201	So now we are at a time when it is not necessarily just about resources, that is to say about money; it is also about whether you can find the hands, the people who have to provide the service that is essential. If you sit as an elderly person and can't take care of yourself, you're totally dependent on someone coming by and helping you. And we don't want to be in the situation where we have solved the task for families with children, but where it's the grandparents who pay the price either in their own home or in a nursing home by not being able to get the help you need. So that is just why I want to hear: can the SF see a logic in that, in fact, while making minimum standards in the area of children, one should also find a model to make minimum standards in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130238	I am not reluctant to look at the area of the elderly, i.e. to see whether some form of bottom can be provided. The problem is only with minimum standards in the area of the elderly that there are so many interventions in the area of the elderly that it is not as easy to say as it is for a daycare centre with nursery and kindergarten; it is not the same in the area of the elderly. After all, we have made it very clear that we believe that there must be at least two night shifts in our nursing home to get along that road. We are also saying that more money needs to be made available in the area of the elderly, but there is not a standard that suits everyone in the area of the elderly, and we may also have to recognise that there are many measures. However, I am very sympathetic to the idea of more resources in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130313	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130315	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her rapporteur's speech. I'd like to follow up on sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question, understood in that way that the SF has a policy that we should hire right and left in the public sector, that there should be more welfare staff both for the children in schools and for the elderly, and that is so fine, besides of course that we should be able to finance it. That's one challenge. Another challenge is a shortage of labour, and it is a huge challenge at present. There, I understand from the SF that the reform proposal that the government has made with a number of things which, however, also improve some of the accidents they have done in the past is very bad. We feel very bad about some of the proposals that my party has made, among other things. to get more international labour. So the question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is: what is SF's solution to the challenge of labour shortages, which is a huge current challenge for Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130416	I very much agree with the questioner that we are facing a challenge in terms of skilled labour. SF is thus very positive about the government's proposals and can see that many of those proposals are part of the way. I am also concerned about the 100,000 unemployed that we have and that we are getting them into the labour market, because that is something that we are dealing with, among other things. the fact that they do not have the right qualifications. One of the elements that we previously, in fact during Corona, agreed with the government, and which we are now continuing, is that some of the unskilled people who today need to be trained for skilled workers, of 110 per cent, can actually get that qualification. I think that is quite an important element in ensuring that you do not only have the workforce, because it must also be qualified. And that's what I hear, among other things. business is calling for: not just labour, but that it should be skilled labour. So I'm not really dismissive of it. Now I will not be able to answer that part of international labour, but I would like to answer that question if the questioner asks another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130516	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130518	I'll think about it, but time is running out. In other words, as I immediately understood SF, and I may have been wrong, and then I apologise, one is opposed to the things in the government's proposal that increase the supply of labour, among other things. The reduction of the graduation rate, and then, of course, you are for where you want to spend the money, and that is the easy point of view. Therefore, I would like to ask again: what are SF's concrete proposals to increase the workforce and labour supply?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130553	I think there are several elements. First of all, I mentioned the 100 000 unemployed who I believe should join the workforce. It simply requires that they have the right qualifications. That's where we can start. We are not, in fact, opposed to using some of those second-generation reforms, which are also in the understanding paper, on which all four parties agree, and which is that some of those who are part-time have to go full-time in the future. In fact, I am not dismissive either, and now I will reply to that, sir. Karsten Lauritzen did not ask now, but in his first question, that of international labour, he did so if we do so without failing pay and providing proper conditions and pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130632	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130634	Thank you. I would like to stay on that particular track, and then I can ask the question that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen was not made as clear as perhaps the rapporteur would have liked. Because we can agree to say yes to upgrading, yes to second generation reforms, yes to much more continuing training and much more flexibility, and yes to the 50,000 young people who have neither acquired the school's basic skills nor are in work today. We agree on all this. I think we also agree that it takes some time and some investment. If we are to be able to afford those investments, we need to fill the jobs for which companies need labour so urgently. Therefore, could we also get on with the clues about international labour either by looking at the limit of amounts or in other areas? How could SF be in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130733	First of all, I am glad that we have this common understanding with each other about much of what we can do in the long run, because I think that is absolutely crucial if we are to secure Denmark for the future. In fact, I believe that the Radicals and the SF can agree very much on upgrading. When it comes to foreign labour, it is not the case that it is not possible for foreigners to come to Denmark and work, and I would like to pay tribute to the tripartite agreement that has just been concluded to ensure that more Europeans have the opportunity to enter the Danish labour market. After all, the limit does not apply in Europe, and there are 15 million unemployed Europeans who may well be able to supply some of the skilled labour we need. I am also not opposed to doing so when, for example, it does so. applies to an IT technician from India, or whatever it may be for skills that are needed. What I am really concerned about is that we are not undermining the Danish labour market, nor in relation to the working environment or salaries, and that is what becomes the balance in this. That is why the limit is where it is, because we do not want to discuss whether we can help to push pay and working conditions in Denmark. But I'm not receptive to foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130838	Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130839	That's the last thing I'm really happy to hear. Now the amount limit is increasing more and more, and you have to be a highly qualified specialist to get over it. There is a need for labour everywhere in Danish society. The green transition, which we are so concerned with together, lacks hands and heads. You just can't find them to make the products we both have to live on and get the green transition in line with in Denmark as well as in the rest of the world, where we have to sell these products that can't be sold if there aren't people to make them. I am in favour of continuing training and upgrading and all that, but I also hope that we can help to look at either these limits or the positive list that we adopted, where no one comes in because there are administrative obstacles in buckets.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130928	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007130930	I think we need to set the green switch. I can be deeply concerned about whether we have enough skilled labour; also because I believe that we will grow even more in Denmark on the green agenda. We have, of course, together in the agricultural project together with Enhedslisten and many other good forces fought for plant-based food production to grow in Denmark, and I think this is a positive agenda. It may also be that we will need qualified labour there and I think that is an important point. I just think it's important to make sure this stays in order. And that will probably be my demand and my plea for that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131002	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131005	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for mentioning what is perhaps popularly called the fight against negative social control. This is a very important agenda that we share with the SF. Another important agenda that we share with the SF is that children have rights, which is why I have to ask the President of the SF whether it is not true that the people who have been brought to Denmark tonight are children who are Danish citizens and not all else. It is just because I think that many myths have arisen during the morning in this Chamber about what has actually happened and why it is really important that these children are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131045	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131047	Well, I was happy last night when I saw that the three mothers and 14 children came to Denmark. And I was really happy because it's a fight SF has been fighting for them to just get back to Denmark. I believe that Danish children belong in Denmark and that we have a duty to look after them just so there is no doubt about it. Then I have to say that I was sorry that Enhedslisten would not be part of the agreement we made with, among others. Radical Left and a broad majority in the Folketing, and that Enhedslisten chose to call it a jar of jam. Because it has now become apparent that the three mothers and 14 children have come home precisely because of that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131125	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131126	I was happy last night, too. And I'm also glad these women have to be prosecuted. That's the whole point of taking them home. I really think it was legitimate to call it a jar of jelly, because it has taken quite a long time. This deal was made on May 18th. That's one thing. The second thing I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is what to do with the last five children who are still away in the Al-Hol camp in Syria. They are also Danish citizens. They go side by side with IS terrorists, and we agree that is not a place for children. That is precisely why we were not in the agreement, because we did not want to leave five children there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131207	First of all, I'd like to arrest this because it's been a long time. In other words, when I compare Denmark with many other countries in Europe that have also said that they want their citizens home, the Danish authorities have actually reacted quickly and effectively. And I would actually like to praise them for that, because I think they have done a fine job. So I do not agree with Mrs Rosa Lund there. Second, about the five children. Yes, Danish children must have the right to come to Denmark, and if the five children come to Denmark, I must be the first to welcome them. As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen made it very clear from the platform that we cannot say no to Danish children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131243	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131246	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech, and thank you for the invitation that came to me. I was going to ask you something, and then we can always talk about the other thing at another time. Now you have to be careful in this Chamber that you do not sometimes have preconceived opinions about what you are saying when you have not just got into it, so I am actually asking out of sincere curiosity, because I have a prejudice about what the SF thinks, but now I am asking what SF actually means. When it comes to our care for the elderly and the possibility of private offers, where do SF and the chairman of the SF really stand when it comes to private providers being able to make nursing homes, that private providers should be able to compete on an equal footing with the municipality by providing care to the elderly? There is a misunderstanding here, because older people do not lose the will to choose for themselves just because they have grown old. It may well happen that people want to decide for themselves who comes into their homes, and should they be allowed to do so via a private supplier who gets the same tariff as the public one?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131350	In fact, I think that what the elderly would rather have is the same home help that comes in through the door every time, that is to say, that you are sure that you know the person who comes in when you open your door. At least that's how I'd feel. And I'm pretty sure that that security about what are called regular teams in the care of the elderly, which I could hear the Conservative People's Party at least this morning on the radio, we agreed. Because I really think that the most important thing for the elderly is security, knowledge of who comes in the door, so that's no. 1. No. 2 is whether I have a problem with having a free nursing home sometimes. No, I don't have a problem with it, but what is just important to me and crucial to the SF is that the public offer is a good offer and that everyone has the opportunity to get a good offer and not just the few who have enough money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131438	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131440	Well, that's good, because we totally agree on that. Then I just want to know if we're not gonna create an independent unit to check the price. For it is rather striking that some private suppliers in home care cannot deliver at the price that the municipality can, because the municipality makes it extremely cheap when they have to figure it out themselves. Then they can give a lot of additional appropriations afterwards. Should it not at least be free and open competition? When the two of us get old, and it's a long, long time, we'd probably like to be allowed to decide who's going to come in our home, and if it's not the municipality, but a private company, it's not a big deal, just the tariff is fair, the same and the same, and a municipality doesn't cheat on the weight.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131522-2	I think when I get old, I just want it to be the same person coming through the door. I do not think that older people are thinking that they would like exactly that company versus the municipality. I think they will have security in it, they will have proper care, and they will know that it is the same people who are coming. I think that is simply the crucial point. To this thing about making some kind of price unit, I would like to say that I always get scared when we introduce more bureaucracy and more rules and more measures. We used to have a mayor named Flemming Bonne who was just trying this in the care of the elderly, and he found that it was impossible to do so without introducing a lot of bureaucracy, and I am not interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131600	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131602	Thank you so much. Back in March, the SF jumped into the goal, when a blue adoption text on developing learning processes in the Muhammad crisis was to be adopted, but, unfortunately, with the sudden turnaround of the SF, there was no majority anyway, this means that there are not yet updated security contingency plans, that there is insufficient support for teachers' freedom of expression and that there is no proper opportunity for teachers to teach in the Muhammad crisis. When the SF had a national meeting in September, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr presented a proposal that the country's primary schools should be taught the Muhammad crisis. And I am delighted that I am very pleased because it is really needed. Education in the Muhammed crisis is part of Danish contemporary history, but can't Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr say a few words about the reason why the SF now backs the proposal made by a single blue block about six months ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131710	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131711	We didn't jump in the target. We convinced the government of SF's policy, and ergo and, of course, we support that when there is a majority in favour of our policy, we must implement it. That's the way it is in the SF. We are, in fact, concerned about getting our policy implemented and not just making symbol adoptions in the Folketing. It is true that the government hasn't delivered everything yet, but we will make them do that. I agree with Mrs Mette Thiesen that it is important to teach the Mohammed drawings, not just because it is Mohammed drawings, but because it is a primary source of the greatest foreign policy crisis in recent times for Denmark, and that is why it is vital that we really ensure that teachers can teach it here. We have proposed that teaching material should be made, we have not proposed that it should be
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131809	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131810	Thank you so much. That was very quickly a little a politician's answer, because that was actually exactly what was in the text of the adoption, and I think that by far the majority of people would be very surprised that there had actually been cooperation up to, but suddenly, even if you agree with the text of the adoption, you are suddenly voting against. I can then assure Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that an overall blue block has put forward this text of adoption as a motion for a resolution, and I actually believe that it was tabled yesterday, so if the SF really means what they said to their national meeting, we will in fact soon be able to put the government in a minority on this issue, and in this way we can ensure that the teaching material is precisely produced by the state, so that the individual teacher and the individual school do not have to prepare the material themselves. Is the SF ready to vote in favour of this proposal and defend the freedom of expression of the individual teacher and the individual school?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131902	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131905	In my view, it is absolutely essential that we stand at the goal of freedom of speech for teachers. SF does it over and over again, and I mean it in this case too. What is a little interesting is that if you can get a majority in favour of your policy, will you not support that majority? Yes, we do, and that's why we made a decision with the government, and the government has to deliver on what they're actually gonna deliver on this. If that is the case, then the government will not be delivered, then we will be happy to vote in favour of your proposal, but we will deliver with the government, I have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131935	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007131937	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate on Thursday, so as to have a good debate as appropriate, it was at Clement Kjersgaard, so there are always limits to how good such a debate will be. Pia Olsen Dyhr It was Tuesday). I would actually like to continue along the path we discussed last time, which was also the case, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen mentioned, namely the care of the elderly and the free choice and the fact that there are several private nursing homes in Denmark. When you ask the Danes, it is only 12 per cent who answer that they think they will get good treatment when they go to nursing homes, and that is only 11 per cent. of the Danes who say that they prefer a public nursing home to a free nursing home. That is why I would just like to hear the overall picture of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's vision for the future: when the rapporteur looks 10 years ahead, will we have more Dagmar-like free-care homes in Denmark? Will there be more of them? As it is today, only less than half of the municipalities have a free-care home or a private nursing home. Is the vision for SF that we should have more free nursing homes and private nursing homes? I am in favour of more professionalism and more hands and debureaucratisation and all that, I do not want the rapporteur to refuse it, but is the vision that there should be more free-care homes in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132042	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132043	I really think I want if the vision and we have to allow ourselves to dream inside this room is that more of the public nursing homes become like the home of free care. After all, we cannot clone the head of Dagmarsminde, which would be a good example to follow, but I think that if we give the public nursing homes more freedom, I think that is actually part of it, but in fact I also know that I will be told in a moment that resources are not part of the solution. I think management is part of what I think money is part of it, and I think that removing some bureaucracy is also part of the solution to our nursing home. Because I believe that by providing proper public nursing homes, we will ensure that we do not create an A and B team, and I think that is so crucial to ensuring the security that can be around our elderly care.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132133	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132134	Fortunately, however, there will be no A and B teams as long as there is a free choice, that is, as long as you are free to choose a home or a private nursing home, because it is the public who pays it. They can just do something else, even if they have the same economy. What we in the Liberal Alliance think should be done is to take care of the nursing homes that are most unsatisfactory, for example what we saw in the TV 2 documentary • Care homes behind the facade, the nursing homes where conditions are deeply unacceptable, and say that we are simply sending them out in tenders, and then there is a private player who takes over with the same economy, but we are sending it in tenders. Couldn't that be a way forward? The bad nursing homes must close, we give them to people who are like those who run Dagmarsminde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132212	One could also turn it around and say: should we take action with more efficient management, should we provide more resources, and then perhaps it could be done? It is not the case when a private company finds that suddenly there is a high demand for their goods that they do not expand the company. They do, and that is really what this is about in relation to our care for the elderly. If we get more elderly, we also need to reduce some more resources. Then I think there is a pretty good example in Sweden, as Mr. Alex Vanopslagh cleverly doesn't talk about. There all the public nursing homes were offered, or at least they were tried because they were thought to be better solutions. What happened? It was a bad solution, there were a lot of older people who ended up sitting all alone and without the basic care it was actually almost neglecting.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132256	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132258	Thank you very much. And thank you for your speech. I have a question about the climate. After all, the speaker praises the Agriculture Agreement, the CO2 reduction agreement. Why is it that the speaker accepts that so much of what needs to be reduced has been postponed and based on technology that has not yet been invented? SF wrote on Twitter last year: Exactly yes, SF is ready, no hockey stick or green fixers. Then why is it that the SF is taking part in this with the hockey stick, maybe the biggest hockey stick ever and green fakes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132348	Well, I think we put the hockey stick in the drawer when we made a partial target for 2025 at 50-54 per cent, as was recommended by the Climate Council, precisely to ensure that it was not postponed to 2030, but was already delivered by 2025. So I kind of think we broke the hockey stick and put it in the drawer. That's one part. The second part is in relation to the agricultural agreement: had I wanted to see more concrete reductions in the past? Yeah, I'd love to. I know that we fought hard in the negotiating room to ensure more concrete reductions, among others. with take-off of agricultural land. Now we are up to 100,000 ha, and when you add it together, it doesn't give at all the same as if you ask the experts in CONCITO or in the Climate Council or for that matter at Aarhus University what it should actually give of concrete reductions. It's a great frustration for me and probably for others too, but I think we're actually gonna see that number coming up higher. However, in relation to whether I would like it to go faster and whether I would like it to be more ambitious, I would say that yes, there I actually agree with the alternative. But we are also a place where we always take responsibility for pushing the government and the others further, because it is absolutely crucial to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132454	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132455	Well, it's not true that the hockey stick is in the drawer. So, according to several media and green organizations, it's patched up, and it's bigger than ever, because you've postponed the real CO2 so it's bigger than ever. But I would like to ask about meat production. After all, meat production is one of the most CO2 emissions, it displaces nature and biodiversity, pollutes groundwater and destroys the seabed, and then it is a major cruelty to animals. Why is it that we have not even tried to help agriculture to reduce meat production now that the meat consumption of the Danes is even decreasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132530	Firstly, we take 100 000 hectares of agricultural land out of production. It will actually have consequences for animal production, too, by the questioner. We're both a little geeks in this area, so he knows it's gonna have consequences. Secondly, as far as meat production is concerned, I have to arrest the fact that all animal production is cruel to animals. Well, I don't quite agree with that. In fact, I think I am experiencing a great many farmers who are actually doing a good and thorough job. I just have to say that. And then I would like to say that, in this agreement, for the first time ever, I think it is 1 billion. kr., we set of plant-based production and food. It is historic and important, and I am quite sure that exactly that part the alternative will also agree with the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132612	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132614	Thank you. A central part of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's speech was about psychiatry and the really big challenge a lot of young people face because they cannot get the treatment they should be entitled to. That seems to me to have received far too little attention in this debate, because it was, in particular, an excellent speech made by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr on this point. But that is not a new issue. There are just several of them, and it does not really help us if we do not also provide concrete solutions. I cannot help thinking that, if we now made sure that the children were also given the rights that we are all talking about and that they could be respected, then perhaps we would have come a long way. In France, they have taken the consequence of the fact that things typically go wrong on the table of the economy, and they have created a children's rights court and a child's agency to ensure that children's rights, which can then enter the child's law, are respected. What does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think of that idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132732	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132732-2	I'm not really dismissive of that idea. I think I need to find out a little more about it, but I am very concerned about children's rights. In fact, I am probably most concerned that we will then get it done in concrete terms and not only make it such headlines, but I will not deny that it can make sense. Where I think we have done something with this government, where we have made a shift, is, of course, that we have secured free psychological assistance for young people under 25 years of age with anxiety and depression. I think that is important, because it must not be the wallet that decides if you get help when the psyche breaks. That is the one element. However, the second element will now be to talk about what kind of primary school we need, what kind of a child's life we need. We have succeeded in getting minimum standards in kindergartens and crèches, and I am very proud of that, because I think it is slowing down a little, but we must also do so in primary school. We must then ensure that children do not just automatically, when they are 5 years and 10 months old, move up in kindergarten and that, when they are 6 years old, they do not just have to go to school automatically, and that when they go to school they are not subjected to thousands of national tests all the time, but maybe in fact focus more on the core task. I think that, compared to the fact that we have to keep moving forward, that we are in a hamster wheel and that we have to achieve something, perhaps sometimes just have to be where we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132843	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132844	It is also a very good and important discussion, but we are just faced with some acute problems which are quite large, and we are faced with an acute problem, which is always that the children's rights that we talk so much about are not really present because there is not enough to ensure that children have their rights safeguarded. We've made a rather comprehensive proposal... it's not something I've just pulled in a vending machine, but it's with inspiration from France and the German Jugendschutzgesetz, which is, of course, a comprehensive law catalogue for the protection of children's rights... and when we're going to make the child's law and discuss all this in the autumn and the coming spring, I just wanted to know if SF would have an open mind for thoughts in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132933	Now I am a folk socialist, so as a starting point I always have an open mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132938	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007132943	Tradition must be maintained, and that is why, of course, I am asking questions to the SF's rapporteur in this opening debate. I can then say that it will not be about pollution in Grindsted, but on the other hand I would like to follow up on what the Chairman of the Left, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, was inside about SF in relation to how we solve the problem here and now in our society in relation to getting more labour. A very specific question for Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr could be: what does the SF think about reducing the limit on amounts so that we can have more international labour? I don't think so, sir. Karsten Lauritzen had an answer to that, so I would like it if the rapporteur would respond a little more specifically to that. I mean, will SF help lower the limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133048	It doesn't appear immediately on my favorite list of things I'd like to do, to lower the amount limit. Why? Because some of the skilled labour requested by the rapporteur, for example. is a sosu assistant in a nursing home. It can be an educational assistant in a kindergarten. It's not like people fall below the limit. Does the rapporteur think that we should import labour from Ukraine for our welfare services or from where? On the other hand, I imagine that we can look at the list of proposals that we have. After all, we have a priority list today, which we leave to the social partners to look at: where is the lack of skilled labour? I am, in fact, open to that; I am also open to looking at whether we can make it even easier exactly where we are missing. It can be in a local area where it makes real sense and where you lack qualified labour. I'd like to be a part of that. But I would say that I am very afraid of going down a road which means that we are undermining basic working conditions. I would also like to say that I believe that the Danes have a legitimate expectation that the welfare workers who are can understand and speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133200	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133202	Then maybe I'll have to get around Grindsted anyway, because it's actually the case that there's a fish factory in Grindsted, which is now in need of labour. And yes, then the answer could well be "I could imagine from the SF or from the Social Democratic Party for that matter that you should take some from the job center that goes unemployed. But there we have to say that there you have been. So you stand here and now and you need more hands. In fact, I hear the SF's rapporteur say that SF is prepared to go in to look at, for example. different regional areas where you want to help reduce the threshold, or how am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133242	That is that we have a positive list. The regional social partners can, of course, go in and see if they really need something in a specific area. I am not opposed to that. When the rapporteur mentions the fishing factory in Grindsted, I think it might be more obvious that some of the many thousands of unskilled people we have in this country who are not working might be able to get to work at the fish factory and if they are skilled workers that are needed, then there is probably a need for even more speed to get some of the unskilled to become skilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133314	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133317	Thank you. I'd like to talk about climate. After all, we have heard from the government, both today and during the opening speech on Tuesday, that we want the green transition and that it is urgent and that it also requires investment. We are very pleased about that in the Left. In fact, I believe that the vast majority if not all of the parties in the Folketing are, and that is why we are so frustrated by such fine words and ambition that there is no more concrete action and real priorities in it. That is why I would like to hear from the SF whether it is ambitious enough that decisions on the 70-percent target should not be taken until 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133358	Well, now we have decided on the 70-percent target for CO2 but you can say in terms of providing all the elements, all the elements of action, that they should come before 2025. Do I want it to go faster? Yeah, I'd love to. We think it is more urgent than ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133417	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133418	I hear it as if you agree that we can take these decisions more quickly, that we do not have to wait as long as 2025 to figure out how to get there. Another thing that frustrates me is that no funds have been set aside in the Finance Act to reduce CO2 Therefore I would just like to hear from the SF whether it believes that the government is fulfilling this historic green mandate when nothing has been included in the draft budget to reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133458	A great many of these things can be done in the green area, of course, if the polluter pays. I think that is a very healthy and good principle. We are applying it, among other things. on pollution and discharges of waste water and others. We have simply introduced taxes there. That is why I hope so much that we can create a uniform CO2 There is my warmest and most fervent call to the Left that we will also help to set an ambitious target, and I would say that I cannot imagine anything less than DKK 100,000. per Ton, when we're talking about a CO2 If the Left can shake hands on it, I think we've come a long way. I have not yet heard that, but it may be that I am pleasantly surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133535	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133538	In the Enhedslisten, we have wondered why SF, as a notorious green party in our major infrastructure agreement, has accepted the plan and thus backed up a whole range of new motorways and motorway extensions, including and above all, one can almost say that to date the most superfluous motorway in this country, namely the Highway of the Army, which was a mere present to the Left or the bourgeois parties. It wasn't part of the government's original plan. I do not need to lecture Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr on how stressful motorways are for our climate and our environment, including the noise impact they cause and the congestion caused by several motorways. Because we know that the extension of the road network and the extension of the motorway network also generate more cars. That is why, at the same time, we are helping to undermine the level of passenger traffic in public transport. That's why we in the Enhedslisten have wondered very much why you've jumped on all those new black highways.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133655	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133656	I have to say that I was very surprised that the Enhedslisten in those negotiations chose to use all the negotiating pots to get out of a lot instead of discussing what was wanted in the agreement. In SF, we used all our negotiating capital to ensure that a new path between Silkeborg and Aarhus came across Galten, because we believe that public transport is the way forward. Does that mean that when you are negotiating and just want to have such a large element that almost cost 3 billion? I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that there is a need to make some compromises? Yes, it does. Was it grown in my backyard to build a highway on the Army Road? No. Do I think it will mean increased tribulation anywhere? No, actually, I don't think so. I believe that the extension of the army highway, which will be between Vejle and a hinge at Herning, will allow some heavy goods vehicles to get around the road system, and I think that makes sense. Why did we go? It was because we were about to agree to the agreement on the Highway of the Army to make sure that all reservations were made, including those on the Highway of the Army. was at the Vejle Å Valley, which is unique nature, was abandoned. I don't care about any unique biodiversity in Denmark. That's why we chose to go with us to lift it, but make sure that the motorway wasn't completely crazy either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133810	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133812	Yes, and when you get involved in discussions about the route, you just move the problem from one type of nature to another type of nature, and you move the way from bothering one group of citizens to bothering another group of citizens. However, when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that compromises have to be reached, I would say that, if I may say so, there is a compromise with the climate, and we also believe that the climate crisis is not being invited to do so at the moment. On the contrary. We really should take action here, and motorways are moving in the wrong direction, and you have accepted a whole series of them, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133858	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133859	Now I know the rapporteur as quite competent, and I know that the rapporteur has read the agreement and therefore also knows that the agreement actually gives a plus in the climate line and not a negative effect. In other words, all the initiatives combined produce a positive effect on the climate. That's including those highways, sir. Henning Hyllested is talking about. If we had only decided to make public traffic and bike paths in the agreement, it would not have given any particular, more positive climate effect. That's the absurdity of this situation. Then I would say that motorways do not always have to be an evil either. It can reduce traffic killings quite significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133937	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007133940	Thank you. I am glad to hear that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is positive about looking at getting more labour, because we have to say that this is one of the major challenges here and now. One obstacle for us to move forward is that we cannot provide labour. We've heard these stories about, for example. the cleaning company The 5 Stars, where people have hung up when they call people to offer them a job. That's really, really regrettable. That is why I want to hear what is actually going to be done in these situations to ensure that there is more labour for these companies that have difficulty in getting it and where people do not want to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134018	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134019	Now Mrs Louise Schack Elholm mentions a company which chose not to turn to the cashier or the job centre. It could have been that you had to start there just to make sure that you got the manpower you needed. In addition, however, as I mentioned to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, we are not in any way opposed to looking at it in relation to some specific regions and some specific problems. We're open to that, and that's why we're happy to look at this positive list. I have also noted that the tripartite agreement concluded yesterday will look much more closely at whether we can recruit, among other things. European labour force. There are 15 million unemployed Europeans who want to be able to do some of these jobs, and we are not in any way discouraged by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134103	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134105	Then I think Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has simply misunderstood. For the cleaning company The 5 Stars just contacted the job center in Copenhagen to get some labour. It has also led to some consequences for a few of them that they have contacted, but not many, and they just didn't get many to apply for the job. That is why I just want to know whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr thinks that the agreement that has been reached is sufficient, despite the fact that employers say that it does not solve their acute shortage of labour here and now. Does Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr think this is enough to solve it because you made that mini-tripartite agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134137	I think we need to look at a great many elements. SF does not believe that one thing solves the major problems we face with a shortage of labour. In fact, I think it is positive that we have brought unemployment down so much in Denmark. It's a positive story. But we still have 100,000 unemployed who I would like to help make sure get to work. I would very much like to look at whether we can upgrade some of the unskilled we have to skilled workers. I would also like to look at whether some of those forced on part-time can come full-time. Perhaps some of the welfare workers that Mrs Anni Matthiesen was just talking about were also talking about. So there are many elements to be addressed. I don't believe that just a snap fixes everything, and I'm a little disappointed, if that's what the Left thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134213	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134214	Thank you. Tradition is that I have to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr questions, and this is about, among other things, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. one of the soft welfare areas, namely the area of the elderly. After all, today we have heard a debate in which Søren Pape Poulsen has also mentioned the rock map scheme. It was an arrangement for which the Danish People's Party was the banner leader, so I would like to know whether SF believes that older people should have more self-determination, precisely in relation to the fact that they have a legal right to have a rock card scheme. After all, we can see now that the funds are no longer earmarked directly, but go beyond the block subsidy, that more municipalities have saved away the cutting-card system. That was one thing: will the SF support that we simply get it written into the legislation? The second thing I just wanted to hear from the SF's rapporteur is also to write in. Today it is the case that there is no provision in Section 83 of the Service Act. It says that help and practical help must be provided, but care can be seen as a shortcoming. We have just seen the documentary on Dagmarsminde and know how much it means to care that it should be a right. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134326	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134327	I am so pleased that Mrs Karina Adsbøl 1) asks questions, but 2) also asks questions about the rock map scheme, because the rock map scheme was introduced for the first time in the City of Copenhagen by SF's health and elderly mayor Nina Thomsen. And when it was introduced, it was precisely in order to give some of the weakest elderly people the opportunity to choose, for example. a walk or an opportunity to shop, or it could just be a cup of coffee but in fact some extra time on the rock map. I have also noted that the Danish People's Party has subsequently adopted it. I think that is very positive. That's where I think we can do more. The challenge was, of course, that we put it on the Finance Act, and I myself helped to ensure that it was also in the Finance Act, but I would say that when it expired, what happens to many of these schemes happened that it automatically went over to the block grant. Well, maybe we should go back to visit it. I do not have an easy solution to that, but I do think that the rock card scheme is a way of supporting some of the weakest elderly, so that they can also get more care in a dignified way. I'm out of response time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134428	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134432	I'm glad to hear that. But what then puzzles me is that when the Danish People's Party in the last session put forward proposals for an old law which gave the elderly the right to a rock card scheme, the SF voted against. The draft law on the elderly also included the fact that we had to write care into the legislation in relation to the elderly. The SF also voted against that part. So I would be glad if we could then meet and come to an overall agreement that older people should have more self-determination, in relation to what help they want, and then could have the rock card scheme incorporated into the legislation, including care. I'm thinking that's in SF's interest too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134511	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134513	Now there were actually a lot of elements in that bill, and it did so that SF voted against. But I think we share the intention with the Danish People's Party that our elderly should have a more dignified old age, that there should be time for them. An important proposal by the SF is, of course, among other things. to get regular teams in the care of the elderly. It may sound a little nerdy, but it basically means that it is the same people who have to come into your home, that it is the ones you are closely attached to and that you know each other. There are many older people, for example. has challenges with dementia or other, and it's nice that it's the same people who know you and know what your needs are. That is basically what concerns caring.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134550	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007134600	Thank you so much. Are women and men in Denmark equal? If you ask my colleague, sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens is the answer, at least the last time I checked, probably yes. Equality problems are something that feminists squander around and invent, they don't really exist, and we have If you ask my colleague Mrs. Marie Bjerre from the Left, the answer is probably no, because no male colleague at Tinge is shown to take her baby to work, as Marie Bjerre was, it should be Mrs. Pernille Skipper. But can not both be right at the same time, so that we have both gained significantly more equality in Denmark over the last 50 years, but are still not in the goal? I think so. I also believe that in 50 years' time we will look back on women and men having equal maternity opportunities in 2021, which is just as obvious right as it was that we stopped beating our children and that sex requires consent. For me, earmarked maternity for fathers is an achievement for men and women and a proof that politics can actually set people free. And I know that over the past six months I have spoken a great deal about the fact that politics has broken down on some stretches, because divisions are being cultivated, man or woman, mink killing or the rule of law, child breaking or law breaking, and then the nuances disappear: because, although we try not to, we politicians are still chasing clicks and likes, while the climate is raging and the economy is now boiling and one in six children is leaving school without being able to read, write or count and without thriving, and because politics is still being made over people's heads and, at least, that they continue to lose more and more confidence in politics. And although I also see that we are trying to do so, it has not changed sufficiently over the last six months, and that is why we need to think about new things, including the way we conduct politics. In July Germany was underwater, while the rest of the world sweated during the warmest summer that man has measured on planet Earth ever. In August, the world's leading climate scientists made it clear to us: climate change is man-made, it happens faster than expected, and we reduce our children's opportunities to live meaningful lives on Earth in the future. Climate change is here, and I also think it has been emphasised today, fortunately. But whether we pay tribute to the individual or to the community, believe in a strong state or a strong market, or want Denmark to enter the European Union or out of the European Union, we do not get around the fact that climate change is here, and we do not find a solution to that problem, but all other problems over time become indifferent, and that is precisely why the climate crisis is the place to start when we are trying to reinvent politics, because it is most urgent here. I think the government really knows that, and that is why I am also disappointed to see that the hockey staff is being replaced by a plan to draw up a plan to achieve the objectives we have been agreed on since 2009, but which are already obsolete, and that is also what was asked about before. I understand that it's really hard. It's really hard. But I also have the experience that most of us really know that we need something completely, completely different. So think, just think, if politics wasn't just the place where we patched the gaps in the society we have, but where we actually dared to dream of creating a radically better society where we live radically better lives. No more trench wars about whether we should bet on the good or the green life or on making it cheaper or greener to be a Dane. We must then dare to dream of a society that is both much greener and much better. We have such a dream in the Radical Left, and yes, we call it 110%. green. The dream is about completing the green transition of Denmark by 2040 and helping the rest of the world to the goal, so we become a country that gives more to the globe than we take. For many decades, humanity has tried to repair the damage after 200 years of industrialisation, so the time has come to repair the past so that we can get started actually building the future, and it is, I experience we agree, a greener Denmark in a greener world. But I believe that this requires that we also have the courage to rethink politics. So imagine if we gave up the idea that politics is the mother of all change, or at least that we have to control all change from here, and instead used politics to free the people who are actually driving our society, for in the work we've done with this dream and with these games about 110 percent. Green, I have again been surprised at how far our cities, our companies, our organisations and many others are actually in the development of the green Denmark of the future. They are light years ahead of us at Christiansborg. It is not because it is not serious, but we are discussing reduction targets and sectoral requirements in how many meetings was it? However, if we are to resolve the climate crisis, politics must not stand in their way, and we are doing so today. Our pace awakens their astonishment, and it is not because we do not have the pace of our work, but because we do not have it in our decisions. Our paralysis also arouses their indignation. And no, politics must instead set free, pave the way, create a framework for the successes, so that cities, businesses and many, many more themselves can create the green change that we all dream of, because we know that many of the really big changes that have shaped Denmark into the fantastic country that we have are not created by state or by politics. It is created by people in communities with a dream that they together made a reality. So imagine if politics could create the framework for a climate alliance that made the dream of 100 percent. Green to reality. It also requires that we dare to rethink the way we work together at Christiansborg, and I have said it before, but now I say it again, and I hope you will take it positively: think if we actually dared to put the back marks a little bit in the door in the morning, so that we not only divided ourselves by opinion, which we talk so much about, and it is important, but so that we actually dared to concentrate on our views. And I know that we are not the same, that our values are far from the same, and that this will continue to be so. We look differently at the world and its problems, but we also have something quite fundamental in common, namely that we are chosen by Denmark to make Denmark better. That is the responsibility that rests on us: to solve the problems for the whole of society so that we leave behind a greener and a freer and a stronger country than what we took over. What if we gathered a little more often than just the other Monday night, and imagine if we also dared to invite someone else in? For the climate crisis is not only solved by Christiansborg, but it is also solved by Christiansborg, and despite our diversity I refuse to believe that we are so different that we cannot find a more common path here, perhaps especially if we open up and do so together with others other than us who have been elected to parliament. It will not be less democratic. Surely we must be able to gather together to pass on a planet to our children, on which they can live meaningful lives. We need to be able to gather together on that, and I see support for that. However, we must be able to show that political and political work contributes significantly to resolving the climate crisis, otherwise the issue from the outside continues to be that what should we actually do with it, and that is our responsibility. I hope you agree, and I also hope that you will share in trying out some new formats. We need to think about new things, including our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135625	The first brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135630	Thank you, Mrs Carsten Nielsen, for the rapporteur's speech. I can say that I do not believe that we in the Left agree that the people's rule has broken; but if we do nothing, we risk it being broken. At least there's been some disease, a mild corona that can get worse. And I do not believe that the solution is to discuss this at the opening debate in Parliament. I think that we should do that elsewhere, and we would, of course, like to take part in it. But I would also like to challenge a tiny bit, because in relation to the climate, which is an area on which my party has moved a great deal, I actually believe that we are more green than the current government. And one of the reasons for this is that we are willing to give priority to room for manoeuvre, and that is where there are some disagreements, and I suppose we will have to recognise them as well. And it is my question whether the rapporteur does not recognise this, namely that money can only be spent once. If, as a government, you have the policy of being red before you are green, then you cannot spend the money you want to spend on welfare on the climate. In other words, does the rapporteur not agree that we can only spend the money once?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135740	A very short answer to that is: Yes. You can only spend the money once, and we must make sure that they are there in the future too. It is a huge challenge for our society if we do not, and we have been incredibly good at it. It really is a very high floral arrangement that is here. I'm sorry to hear about that, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, that I can't see him. And then I just hope 'cause I'm really excited about sir. Karsten Lauritzen's opening, effort and reflections on our democracy that we also have to discuss it in all kinds of other forums. But I also think that the opening debate where people are watching must be a place where you can actually think and reflect on it. I am very pleased with the reports that I hear, sir. Karsten Lauritzen on behalf of the Left I assume that we have come along so that we can actually take care of our democracy in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135836	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135839	Thank you. Now I have to stand up and I'll be easier to see, but I can hear the answer and thank you for it. We would very much like to be involved in this and, fortunately, it is also a process that has been set in motion. Now all we have to do is make sure that it ends up with something, that is, this doing things differently. I think that some of what is lacking in Danish politics, and that is my final question to the rapporteur, is that we recognise that we cannot do everything. Well, politics is choices, and you can't say we want everything. It is then back to my original remark about what we are spending the money on. Well, couldn't it help if we now realized that we can only spend the money once and then stood by that we can't do all of it? That's the honest answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135919	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007135920	It is a good recognition to be made, just as I hear and am glad that the rapporteur says that the Left is green before perhaps everything else is a priority. I would like to see something more of that, and I will look forward to it very much. However, I agree with this, because I actually hear a call for something more to be prioritised and also for a genuine green space to be given priority, because we will have to invest in the green transition. The basic thing I read or hear more in the question is that we will need to create room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140002	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140004	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen is very fond of this plant-based thing. You just have to remember that we have made a great deal on Monday, where you just have to remember that there is also room for me to eat pork roast this weekend, because I look forward to it very much. And that is what we agreed, namely that it should go hand in hand. So the fact that there are more people asking for the plant-based is fine, but there must also be room for us to have an agriculture that develops within what we have had tradition and are proud of. But what I really want to ask Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen about and it is not to mess with quotes from party colleagues and something like that is of course about borders and being able to guard your borders. Because I understand that the Radicals are now saying that it is legitimate for a country to be in control and to have control of who comes into the country. So it is legitimate to have control at your borders. There is then a discussion about what such controls must be about, but I just need to confirm that it is legitimate and that it is the country itself that finds out and decides with itself what is necessary in order to have control over who enters the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140118	I'm really happy with Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's enthusiasm for the thousands of green jobs we are going to be able to create in agriculture by the international publicity that I hope the government has noticed we have got for Europe's largest investment in plant-based research and development and in plant-based jobs. It's gonna be the new bacon. There's not gonna be a replacement for Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's bacon will allow him to have it but it will be the new export adventure if we do this right for the benefit of Danish economy. I think that is fantastic, and if you had to shut up in the Chamber, we should celebrate it with such applause. But we can't. It is true that we think that Europe's external borders are, of course, legitimate to take care of for the countries that lie there. Our policy is that this should be done in a joint European effort, with a pan-European framework for how we are doing it here, so as to ensure that it is fully in line with the convention-specific right to seek asylum and that people are properly treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140223	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140224	Well, it is fantastic when the Radicals and the DF have found each other in relation to developing agriculture, and agriculture wants to produce what consumers want, whether it is plant-based or in fact on the basis of meat. Anyway, as far as the border is concerned, I just need to find out where the Radicals are now, because the Social Democrats have come to regret the fact that in 2015 quite powerful things were actually said about Hungary, when Hungary was controlling its borders because of the situation that was there. I understand that the Social Democrats have regretted going out at the time and actually talking very condescendingly about Hungary's need to guard its borders. Will the Radicals similarly say that Hungary also had the right, as it did today, to find out for itself what is necessary to guard the borders of the country so that the Hungarians decide who comes into their country?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140314	I had just hoped that it was EU policy where the Danish People's Party and Radicals had found each other, because then there would really be a new break in Danish politics and the opportunity for real results. But no, it wasn't. No, that is to say, you should never talk derogatoryly about other countries. However, the treatment given by Hungary to people who were on the run at that time does not in any way seem to me to be something to commend or support. We want a common European policy so that we have a common framework for dealing with people, how to control who comes to Europe, how to distribute and how to finance them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140359	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140400	What is it with you radicals and your eternal song that more foreign labour is needed? Wasn't it an idea to turn that song down a little bit as long as we have 26,000 seniors without a job, 10,000 young people looking for an apprenticeship, 15,000 looking for a flex job, and 70,000 between the ages of 15 and 29 who don't have an education, aren't doing one or don't have a job? Was it not an idea to turn down the talk about foreign labour when we continue to have 90,000 registered as unemployed and when people with disabilities find it extremely difficult to enter the labour market? Yeah, it's gonna be hard to solve these challenges, but it's the only way forward if we want a community that's connected. And I know it's a lot easier to grab the phone, and three days later there's a labour market crew from Romania, but Denmark is a society, it's not a factory.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140456-2	I think that maybe sir... Karsten Hønge had to turn down his obsession with the Radical Left. But when it's set aside, I just heard Mr. Karsten Hønge's party chairman said that there is every possibility of getting labour in the EU. There is, but it's not here, so it's not that easy. For the Radical Left it is not a either-or. It is not the case that you can either fill the posts that the labour market is currently screaming for, for example. a skilled skilled worker from somewhere in Europe, or, if it were up to us, with someone outside Europe or qualifying a unemployed person right now, because there is no training from those courses right now. But it has to be so, as Mr. Karsten Hønge well that we invest in upgrading and continuing training, and should be able to afford and afford to train the unemployed and the young people who are particularly outside the labour market, there must be a job for them, and if the companies have moved out in the meantime, we will be much worse behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140606	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140607	It is simply not true that it is not easy to search in Europe. The only thing is that employers in Denmark, far, far less than employers in Sweden, for example, are looking for European platforms where they can search for labour. But it's more to this tunnel vision that the Radicals have, where it among other things. is about the limit on the amount, but the limit on the amount is, of course, about people outside the European Union. This is where the logic goes completely, because it is evident that we have to lower the threshold, while at the same time talking about attracting highly qualified engineers, doctors and researchers. As far as I am aware of the mechanisms in the labour market, you will have no more people to look for if you lower the limit on the amount, then you have to raise the wage. And frankly, should that limit be any limit at all? The limit corresponds to what a Danish primary school teacher serves. Is it really necessary to set that limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140653	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140654	I think the logic is getting rid of the tunnel vision that Mr. Karsten Hønge has, namely that Danish companies are not engaged in filling the vacant positions they here. Surely it would be a little easier for them to apply within Europe or in Denmark than to have to pick them up outside. They're deeply concerned about that. With the current limit, only specialists can get in, and they earn well above the limit. Such people will, of course, continue to need them, and there is global competition for them. This is about all the other positions where people cannot be brought into fine and decent pay today. After all, we agree that wage dumping and ill-treatment of people must be combated.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140736	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140736-2	Thank you. Actually, for a rare time, I was a little fond of Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question, because it shows that I am not the only one who has had little difficulty in finding out what the Radical Left really thinks should happen to the EU's external borders. Now I understand from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that we need common European solutions, and I think that sounds very good. But I would like to ask Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen: are fences, walls and barbed wire part of that solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140806	I am very pleased that the Enhedslisten will also be involved in common European solutions. We're gonna really need that. This will also require that the European Union should be able to help solve the challenges. I do not think and for a Radical fence, barbed wire and walls is something we should pay tribute in any way whatsoever. However, if it is what Greece needs to build in order to be able to control which people cross the border as long as they treat those people properly and according to the rules and that you have the right to seek asylum when you need protection, then we will not be going against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140843	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140844	But what does Greece need when there are so many refugees? It is then that the countries in our part of Europe are taking some more refugees, that we say to the Greeks: we want to help you; we take 200 refugee children from Lesbos or 2 000 adult refugees. I can come up with many other good figures which I think would help both refugees and Greeks much more than fences, and I must say, Mrs Carsten Nielsen, that I am sincerely sorry that the Radical Left has bought into the idea that fences could solve anything. Because it buys in on the premise that people should flee to No, people are fleeing so I am actually a little discouraged today by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's answer, but there are probably others who are really happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140931	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007140932	I fully agree that fences and barbed wire in no way solve the challenge and that we should take a much greater responsibility for solidarity in Europe in order to distribute the people who need protection, finance it, create a Marshall Plan for Africa. But that requires a commitment to Europe and a desire for pan-European solutions, and that is where I have no support from the Enhedslisten to push the Socialists that way. We cannot do that if we do not want Europe's cooperation. It's like the challenge here. But we will continue to work hard for this because, of course, it is not a solution in itself to anything. Unfortunately, there will also be others other than those in need of protection, and that is where we in Europe need to be able to sort. There are people who just want to go for a better life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141020	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141023	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech, and thank you for our good cooperation in fighting for more labour, regarding the previous debate. I hear there's some way we're gonna go yet. I would like to ask you something else entirely. I heard Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen say that we should have a greener, freer and stronger Denmark, as I think it was said, and we should dream. I very much agree with all that. In relation to a freer society, I think that on many fronts the Radical Left is a pragmatic party, and when it comes to much of economic policy, we usually find each other. When it comes to freer society, should we not make sure that the people who are now old and need help actually had a genuinely free choice and that we informed them that they have a free choice? For there are very many older people who simply have no idea, and no one is telling them. So shouldn't we be doing something to give you a free choice when you're old? It is not about whether you need the help of the municipality or private help, it is about whether you can choose for yourself and that it happens on your terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141134	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141135	Well, we would really like to share both with you on the rights that you already have, but we really want to set the municipalities free, free them to find the solutions they want in this area. And then you don't have to say: then it has to be this way that you set yourselves free, or exactly this way with this exact one requirement or this other requirement, because then they're not free. I would also very much like to free local democracy to find the solutions that need to be experimented with and tested by. I'm also inspired by this free-care home thing, just like we have something in the free-school area. It is also fundamental to us Radicals, but it cannot be the case that it should then be in a very specific way, because then we did not set them free.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141225	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141225-2	I agree with that. I just do not want to help free municipalities so that they can abolish the freedom of people, that is, abolish free elections. At least it is in my world to misunderstand liberation... that's what I think. And when we are at the municipalities, the problem is for a great many who provide private care, that it can be completely unclear how the municipality has arrived at the hourly price which costs it, that it is quite unfair conditions to offer as a private person. That is why we have proposed a motion for a resolution which I hope Radicals will consider making sure that we have a place where independent people figure out whether the municipality has set the right price. It's not about whether it's private or public. I don't have to decide what to do, but at least it has to be the right price.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141307	Yeah, but we've been studying that at least this thing about making sure it's not completely opaque. It has to be clear what it's like to spend the money. And, in relation to free municipalities, if that is what the citizens of that municipality want, I would say: I think that will go out of fashion quite quickly if you simply abolish any kind of freedom. I guess we have that faith in the citizens too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141334	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141337	Thank you. Now the rapporteur was kind enough to mention me in the speech, but it is not quite right to say that I am saying that there are no gender issues, because that is the case. The rapporteur is right. But I do not believe that there is such a man-chauvinist, practical structural fundamental repression of women in the Danish labour market. But there are gender challenges. One of them we see, for example. in section 109 of the Service Act, and therefore I would like to ask about it, because it is a very obvious place where there is no equality. Why did the Radical Left vote against giving equal treatment to men and women there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141410	I think I need a little help just so we don't miss each other. I mean, are these shelters we're talking about? Yes, thank you. Well, we did so because we would like to see the improvement in providing better access, better help, we are absolutely not opposed, and we are also very interested in providing even more help. We ourselves have had it as a proposal under our Finance Act to provide additional assistance to men at shelters.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141438	That is simply not correct, because New Citizens' motion for a resolution B 148 on giving men and women equal rights in the area of aid in crisis homes. The Radical Left voted against it. That is why I ask: why is it that we are voting against a proposal that genuinely provides equality between men and women in a crisis home, now that we are talking about the equality debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141500	It was because it was originally about giving some more opportunities to the very women who are exposed, and there are many of them, yes, yes, but we are voting against motions for resolutions in which there is no funding or where we do not agree with the funding. Then we have put forward proposals on this in connection with our own draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141517	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141520	Thank you. I would like to address some of what Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen mentioned at the outset about the lack of equality in Denmark. After all, there is something that gender researchers call the gender paradox. The paradox of equality is that in those countries where men and women are the most equal and the most free and freed, the differences are, in fact, the greatest. In other words, the more equal we become, the more free we become, the more men and women will make different choices of life because they are free to do what they want to do, and this is due to the rather simple explanation that men and women are generally different. That means they're not the same, in general men and women are different now you're looking at me weirdly. On average, men are higher than women. This is an uncontroversial view, and we are also different in other areas, which means that on average there are fewer women than men who want to be truck drivers and that on average there are fewer women than men who want to give up family life and the like in order to promote a career. If the lack of success arises from a free choice in relation to what one thinks makes sense in one's life, is that really a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141632	Oh, it's gonna be hard to answer that in two minutes. It is basically a question of whether the individual has, from the outset, a completely free choice in the society into which one is born or whether there are structures in the society which also prevent one from being able to make some decisions. We are free in our heads and people in our own right. I agree with the rapporteur on that, but we have a gender-based labour market and a gender-based educational choice, and is there some expectations, some stereotypes, some socialisation? Yeah, I think there is, and I think it means a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141710	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141712	Then I can't help but return to this gender paradox. In fact, it is in the Nordic countries where it has to be said that culture is least marked by gender stereotypes, where it is seen that differences become even greater because people have a free choice. How can Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen know when a man or woman makes a choice based on a false consciousness, and when can Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen know that it is actually just a real free choice, even if it is not something that means that one wants a great career or something like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141746-2	I do not attribute anything to a false consciousness I am too liberal in any way to have such an approach to it. But what is also at stake with the gender paradox is that there are a great many people on the labour market. We are talking about the paradox that exists in the labour market and the choices that are being made there where there are just not very many women in other countries' labour markets, and then it is also easier not to see a paradox of equality because there is inequality outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141818	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141820	Thanks for the speech. In response to the agricultural agreement, everything wrote: the agricultural agreement: the hockey staff is wallpapered together, and everyone holds it. It is, of course, excluded from the alternative that is not included in that agreement. Will Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, unlike SF's leader, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, admit that we still have a lot of hockey staff mechanism in Danish politics, much of the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007141857	It is true that there is not enough concrete CO2 I also think that my speech was marked by the fact that I believe that in the way we work we are not able to make enough decisions quickly enough in this area. And I do not think we will be in the Folketing if we do not involve those who actually have to implement it in reality. This is a problem because it is urgent in this area. I am still very pleased with the ambitious agricultural agreement that was adopted because it binds. It is binding in relation to the reduction targets, just as the 2025 target is, and then a number of initiatives have been introduced, with the good help of the bourgeois parties in fact. Two billion dollars has been set. kr. to set aside agricultural land. This cannot be translated into a figure for concrete reductions in the systems that exist here, but it has to come out of it in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142001	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142003	But an agreement cannot be binding if it is based on technology that has barely been invented yet. What I am wondering is: if the rapporteur has the concern, how can Radicals be included in an agreement that postpones two thirds of CO2 e.g. Novo Nordisk says this: "The best thing the government can do for us is not to postpone the difficult decisions, but to create the necessary clarity and roadmap for the whole society in order to achieve the 2030 target. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142039-2	I agree with Novo Nordisk, and I am sure the rapporteur too, and that is why I am included in the agreement, so to ensure that more and more decisions are taken. We must return to that agreement in order to ensure concrete reductions, and that can only be achieved if we have binding reduction targets. They're tying us to find these reductions, and if they don't come in a way, they're gonna have to come in a different way, hopefully also through a green tax reform with a uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142109	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142111	I am glad that the Radical Left is part of that agreement and that, after all, the party does not subscribe to the water-grave and reed-shoe model, as the alternative does, although the party recognises great ambitions in the climate area. That's good news I'm here with an article that was part of them in the spring, where Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen in Jyllands-Posten apologizes for a law that means that Syrians are told to return home. We were naive, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is quoted as saying in relation to the law which gave temporary residence. When Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen came to the conclusion in the spring that we were naive about this, why would we not support the KD's proposal during the negotiations on the Afghan interpreters that they should have permanent residence? Instead, we ended up with an agreement that said that they have two years of temporary stay without any possibility of extension. Now, we know that if the acts of war have stopped in Afghanistan in two years' time and they can't document personal persecution, and it's a little difficult when they're here, they'll end up being sent home. Will Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen say again: we have been naive?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142230	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142231	I find it difficult to imagine that there will be a situation in Afghanistan in two years' time, in which we will be sending people who have been threatened and on the run back there. And I think it is unacceptable that it is not also suspended to send people back to Syria, for example. So I agree with the questioner. It is, of course, about which agreements you can create a majority for and achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142300	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142301	But no one would support the Christian Democrats in the view that we should have learned from history, especially in relation to the Afghan interpreters. Because we know that the authorities go out and sit at the airport, and then they say: here is peace and quiet. They did that in Mogadishu. And they don't care that Assad is still in power in Syria. There's peace and quiet! And what's it gonna be like in two years? I really hope that I am wrong when I fear that we will have some repatriations that we will not be able to be familiar with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142343-2	Yeah, I hope so, too. And we will certainly not support this in the Radical Left if the situation remains as it is in Afghanistan and in many other places, including Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142356	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142359	I'm gonna try something new. I do not want to ask a question, but I would just like to thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen for her comment on the equality debate. I think it's great that we can recognise each other. Although the Radical Left and the Left are far from agreeing on many political issues, I think it is very positive that we can recognise each other when there are some important issues, as well as the Radical Left and the Left, neither do we agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper's policy in the Enhedslisten. However, I think it is nice that we in this Parliament can recognise each other when there are some important agendas such as the gender agenda. So I'm actually just gonna say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142440-2	Thank you, and thank you for standing together in the Left, too. There are a number of women in the Left who have come forward and put on the agenda what they are facing in terms of stereotypes and harassment, which they sometimes face because they are women, just like others, because they have a different background, are men or other things. So thank you very much for that courage, because I personally know what it costs to put forward further comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142524	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142528	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen for the orderlyness that you often use in your replies, and, speaking of goodness, I would also like to follow up that thanks with a question. And it is that the Radical Left has helped to guarantee the families who own a mink farm that they must start again through the agreement on the hibernation system that we have made. That is why I would like Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to confirm that you will stand by the promise that they will be allowed to start up again, i.e. in good conditions, of course, but that the starting point is that you have to have mink in Denmark again, if you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142613-2	Thanks for the rose, too. I could sense that something came there afterwards, and regret the long name, which may sometimes curl a little, but it may not get away again; now I have kept it for so long. But we will look at the professionally sound and all the other professional arguments. So no, I can't promise that the Radical Left will move somewhere. Now the decision to postpone it has been taken. I also believe that we disagree on how we view the health authorities' assessments, and that is quite fair, and I also think it is fair to ask questions about that. But for us it was basically the case that it would not be reasonable to open up again now, and we are going to make the overall consideration of both the health and the animal welfare aspects of restarting such an industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142719	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142720	I just need to get this straight. If it is healthy to abolish the hibernation regime again, which the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have signed and promised the families that own a mink farm, does the rapporteur now say that this promise will not be upheld?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142746	No, it is, of course, an overall assessment of what will be safe in terms of health. That is an overall assessment, and that is exactly what the agreement says, and that is what we will be deciding when it will be available next year or when it will be available.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142804	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142806	I do not want to thank you, but I would like to ask a question. I understand that Mrs Rosa Lund is asking this question about border fences, because the fact is that Europe has not been good enough to secure external borders. And what does the Radical Left really mean? For Mr. Andreas Steenberg has been out, as I understand it, to back up the fact that border fences are made on the external borders, but then Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen says something different about it. So it is a little difficult to know where the Radicals stand and whether you as a country have to secure your own border. But it may be that the rapporteur can make us wiser. And then I would just like to say, in relation to equality, that there has been a marked failure of the Radical Left. After all, it is not about equality when it comes to men, because there we have seen Radical Left voting time and again against the proposals also put forward by the Danish People's Party to ensure that men could receive psychological assistance and that men were enrolled in section 109 of the Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142917	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007142918	Is it so difficult to find out, or is there also a great interest in making it difficult? I fully agree with Mr. Andreas Steenberg said that countries at the EU's external borders should be able to legitimately set up control posts, i.e. have control over who is crossing the borders. However, I also agree with Mrs Lund that this is no solution at all in itself. People who need to legitimately seek asylum in Europe have the right to seek asylum, to have the opportunity to do so and to be treated properly. On the other hand, I also agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl that there was no control over the EU's external borders, because this was certainly the most obvious fact at all in 2015, because the countries of the European Union cannot agree to have a common policy, because Denmark, for example, does not want to take a joint decision on how to take responsibility for people who are entitled to asylum, how to distribute the task jointly between us, both in relation to the distribution of people who are entitled to protection and in relation to funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143030	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143031	In fact, the Radical Left has failed, they have failed all of this area, and they have failed Denmark to secure Denmark against the immigration of many unintegrable people, and factually it is also the case that when we talk about equality, the Radical Left backs up the need to cover up, and the Radical Left also supports the fact that one should not impose a ban on gender-separated swimming, because the Radical Left believes that special consideration should simply be given to minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143113	No, the Radical Left is in favour of the fact that it is not politicians who decide what clothes people may wear, no matter what background they have. We do not think this promotes equality and freedom in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143127	The next brief remark is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143130	Thank you. After the summer break, as you know, we had a treatment of this legal intervention in the dispute between nurses, which they had been engaged in for as long as 10 weeks, when they had been on strike for equal pay. The nurses themselves say that it is a politically created problem with the civil servant status in 1969, and therefore it must also be resolved politically. That is why we also put forward a proposal to say to the nurses: we understand what you are saying, we agree that there is a problem and there must be money in a payroll committee if it is the case that we are ever going to solve this. But the Radicals voted against that proposal. Now we face the perfect storm. The health service is breaking down, the nurses are furious, so I have to ask the Radicals: was it a mistake to vote no?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143238-2	It is true that this does not seem to be possible to resolve at the public contract table alone. We have an equal pay challenge in Denmark. We believe it should be resolved by the parties to a tripartite agreement, for example, and we would very much like to support in the Radical Left that funds should also be provided in such a tripartite agreement, but in a tripartite agreement everyone has to contribute to the solution. We couldn't take it out, because then the model would fall After all, equal pay is a problem in several occupational groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143318	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143319	One of the responses to which the civil servants and nurses in particular responded was the fact that there is no point in saying that this is a task to be solved by the parties. There is a need for a signal to be sent that money is also being used to solve a politically created problem which cannot and yet the Radicals voted no. That's what they're reacting to out there. There was not even a signal that we would ensure that money would be used to create that solution once we have agreed on what the right solution should be, because we do not know it now. So how are the Radicals going to calm down the staff? How are the Radicals going to send out a signal as to how this problem should be resolved, so that we may be able to create some calm and perhaps even hope that we will really solve an equal pay problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143411	Precisely: to really solve an equal pay problem. This cannot be achieved by a single blow to the air in the collective bargaining that could not succeed there. After all, it was the work of the parties that did not succeed and it was in accordance with the rules that the parties have with each other. Therefore: If this is to be done properly, you have to negotiate in a tri-party where everyone contributes. I hope that some proposals will emerge from the pay committee that can be worked on. And I agree with the rapporteur that if it is to last, it is also necessary to put funds behind it, and then all parties to it will have to contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143456	Thank you. It may be that I should remind you once again that when the President gets up, it is because the speaking time has been exceeded. It may be that I have to start standing three seconds before, so you can round off. The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143507	Thank you. One of my colleagues put an excellent question to the Socialist rapporteur in the past. It was so good that I thought I would pass it on to the radical rapporteur. The question did not sound literal, but rather rather that the impeachment was about whether or not an illegal instruction was given. It's not about baby brides. So what do you radicals think the investigative commission is about? Is it not about whether the Prime Minister and the Government were aware of the lack of a legal basis when the order to close the entire mink business was laid out and about how the government acted afterwards and not about corona or health?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143552	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen wants to know that the Radicals helped so much to set up this committee of inquiry, because it must be examined in depth who knew what and how things were going on. I think that this should be done in respect of the work of the Commission as it was when we finally set up a commission on the violation of the law. But at least I agree with Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen in that it must of course be examined to the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143637	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143639	It is common ground that, regardless of the time the government became aware of the fact that there is no legal basis for the ongoing action to kill all the minks, the government chooses to continue without a legal basis. How would the leader of the Radical Left describe such behaviour in a community governed by the rule of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143705-2	Quite seriously and with respect to the work of the investigating commission: when we set up a commission to explain exactly who has committed what and when what was said, it would be quite premature to conclude before they are finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143725	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143729	I would like to ask you a very direct and brief question: will Radicals help to reduce the unemployment benefit rate for graduates in the coming period?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143744	This proposal has now been brought up by the government and, incidentally, by several opposition parties, not by the Radical Left; it is not something we have wanted. We have had other proposals on how to contribute to increasing the workforce that we really need, also acutely and now and here too. We can easily see ideas in that one looks at the graduating rate, also looks at both the rate and the period. We think it is too hard a proposal that the government has put forward and would like to help adjust it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143819	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143819-2	Then I would like to ask whether the Radicals have considered what an overall impact it has on the resilience of the benefit system itself, if one imagines that the entry into it will be as much complicated as the government's proposal now makes. I am fully aware that this is not the proposal of the Radicals, but if that is the case, what are the views of the Radicals on the future development of our benefit system?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143848-2	We really feel reasonably convinced that it is still really attractive, fortunately, to be a member of an unemployment fund in Denmark. It has to be. We have a good system. We in the Radical Left pay tribute to this, that is to say we have an insurance system in the way we have. It will continue to be attractive for graduates to join an unemployment fund, because you can go to a rate wherever it lands, which is an insurance and a better place, and it is quite easy for graduates to join an unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143929	Then it is time for the last brief remarks to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007143936	Thank you. Then I'll be brief and thank you for your speech. I would like to talk about some of what Sofie Carsten Nielsen did not say. In general, Radicals always advocate education and our young people, but there was no mention of this, and young people, education and well-being, too, in Conservatives, are extremely important. In fact, it is our most important raw material. That is why I would like to hear: why have the Radicals agreed to an agreement that would force students to be allocated to high schools? How can a forced distribution that removes free choice lift both professionalism and well-being? Isn't it exactly the opposite we can see happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144019-2	I am pleased with the question, because it was also really hard to cut the part of the speech that was about school and education, for me as a radical, but there was no room. I simply had to give priority to my messages today, but I speak as often and as gladly about what I can at all. When we are in that agreement, it is because there has never been the full freedom of choice in high schools and upper secondary education in Denmark, and we simply have to give some more of those who have never had the free choice a free choice. Where I am stationed and also out in the West, I have come year after year in high schools where they have said: it is very good to go here, but we are sorry that there are only young people with second ethnic background now; we have wanted it and that and that as our first, second and third priority, but we did not get it because we live here. We have to come together, including in youth education, and therefore smaller mechanisms have been created so that there is still a marked freedom of choice. It has never been a full and completely free choice. We must also go on youth education together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144122	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144123	Thank you. Now we have also removed other opportunities to move both to private gymnasiums, profiling gymnasiums or other things that could just do that, for example. Fatima from Albertslund could attend the business school in here at Niels Brock, which I have also visited. That opportunity has been cut away. But why did not Radicals, when we were sitting around the table talking about youth education, look at how we should actually have helped more young people to choose freely and to take up vocational training? Now there is nothing to boost vocational training; on the contrary, everyone is holding onto it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144203	It was about how we got a better distribution, including on the stx area. I am very open to talking much more about vocational training and it is a ceiling on private colleges that is to be found. It is also a compromise that needs to be found. When others leave the negotiating table, we stay there and try to find the best solution at all. But it was not for us an opportunity to continue to abandon all the young people we have left behind and who never had the free choice before this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144237	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. That concludes 45 minutes of questions. And the next rapporteur is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Mai Villadsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007144249	Thank you. It is a happy day: 14 Danish children and their mothers have come home from the terrible prison camps in Syria. It was a hard and hard fight to get here, but at last they are safe and secure. All we need now is the rest. While I became a member of parliament, I also became a climate and environmental rapporteur, and I was actually a little nervous, because what did I really know about the huge and complex areas? I hadn't exactly been a science geek, so it was something exciting. But of course I threw myself over the areas with everything I had, and it actually became really interesting, immersive and, indeed, almost the most important thing in my whole world. And all of a sudden, I stood there and threw myself in words like carbon capture, pyrolysis, aerosols and biomass, displacement requirements and geothermals. Not exactly verbal words, nor expressions that very many people know what means. It's not really that good. And now I think I have come to a conclusion: the climate debate needs a little first aid. Maybe it's been that way all along. After all, we are throwing ourselves around with targets, percentages and hard words, and I am really guilty of that myself. This makes the debate an expert conversation, and a very, very technical conversation, which is often very far away from ordinary people's life and everyday life, and which alienates rather than engaging. And the debate is polarised: on the one hand, there is a large group of people who are afraid of losing their jobs, afraid of losing opportunities when the transition comes. And in the second camp there is a very young generation that fears right into the heart that they are being deprived of a safe and secure future. Everyone fears the consequences, and that is understandable. Very few, on the other hand, talk about the opportunities it could create if we actually make a radical green transition to our country and to our world. In short, I think that the green imagination and the great climate visions of our society have become far too cramped. I think we lack the ability to imagine a better and completely sustainable society. I think it is time for us to make climate policy a little more concrete and present. And many people also spend a very long time talking about the terrible consequences that we will see if there is no action on climate change too. But I think we need to remember one thing: we cannot only motivate people to climate action by drawing up horrible scenarios for what happens if we sit on our hands. And as I have said before and have been quoted as saying: climate policy must not only become a policy of fear. I think it's time to create a little hope in the midst of hopelessness. For when the welfare society was being built, it was not from scare pictures, but from the idea of what could be gained. At that time, I do not think many people dared to believe that a society of equal access to health, education and childcare could be established. But some brave people, shop stewards and women, stood together and fought for the right to proper pay, weekends, holidays, shorter working hours and pensions. It was a fight uphill. They fought for a well - being with equal access to schools and hospitals and nursing homes no matter what wallet or background. They did so because they believed so much in the future, and they believed in their ideas. Now I think we should do the same: talk about building the green welfare society. And those divisions, I'd like to unfold a little today. In the green welfare society, climate action and social justice are not played out against each other. The big climate bill is not left by the newly educated, unemployed or ordinary employees. No, it does with the richest, those who already own the most, and those who emit the most CO2 It is thought and acted far beyond the next quarterly accounts, financial law or parliamentary term. Power has moved from those who make money on coal-black investments and to those whose future it actually is. Here the green transition is not just something that you are taught on television by politicians and experts, but a place where you go to work and where everyone has the right to a green job. Here agriculture absorbs more CO2 We take global responsibility and do not just use the green transition as Denmark's advertising agency. Here the bees are buzzing along the wild ditches of the cycle path, our drinking water is running out of the taps again, for spray poisons are a thing of the past. Here we share more about cars, books, wedding dresses, and our use and throw away culture is replaced by reuse, repair and quality. We live differently, but we live freer, because we have more time and tranquillity. We live in a way that our planet can hold. It may sound very airy and equally legitimate visionary, but it is the society that we must dare to build together, just like the generations that preceded us and who were about to build up the welfare society through hard work, through struggles and great imagination. In the green welfare community, there has also been a calming of public welfare. There is time both for caring and for security and for play. Decades of cuts, narrow necks and tax discounts for the richest are past. Instead, bourgeois slogans, such as the fact that the government has to drive longer on the liter, which has been stressful for years, are gone. Now is actually the time for what is important. The Earth's order only focuses on one giving birth at a time: the woman she has followed throughout her pregnancy. She has time to hold hands, breathe together. Have the opportunity to check on the small new family the next day in the maternity ward and make home visits the following week. At municipalities and job centres, the citizen feels he did not meet as a number in an excelark, but as a whole human being with all his forces and bodies in the cargo. And the social worker he meets has a real opportunity to help, to make assessments even without asking the bosses for permission, because there is confidence in professionalism. The parents of the child with disabilities no longer feel like an unpleasant lottery where they must be lucky to live in the right municipality to get the support they need. There is proper help here, of course, and the nurse feels treated equally at last, because there is of course equal pay and enough colleagues. In fact, we look back with amazement and horror at a society in which the majority of the Folketing left to year after year, while traditional women's professions were paid less than men's jobs. In the green welfare community there is of course no difference in health, for welfare is extended: Whether you break your leg or break a tooth, the community helps you. This should already be a reality and not a vision. In the green welfare society, everyone contributes. There is no one here who makes devastating fortunes on the work of others, while others have to live by watching their children grow up in poverty with fewer opportunities. Here hardworking people like the cashier, the cleaning worker and the educator helper have more money between their hands and afford to live in the big cities. In return, the director and her with the Palevililla pay more to the community. Here, decades of rapidly growing inequality has reversed, and we are moving towards being a society with shorter, from top to bottom, where we grow up side by side and know each other across boundaries. Distance and suspicion have been replaced by equality and trust. There will always be those who do not believe in the ideas, who oppose and stand on their hind legs and who would rather hold onto their privileges, fortunes and petrified ways of life than they want to create something new together. They met the people who built the welfare society, too. But now, as then, we have to believe in vision, because a better world can do much more than stand still and fear of change. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145301	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145308	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It's always nice when you hear visions and thoughts about how you want to see society. I really think that's a good way to build it up. In other words, I have asked for the floor to congratulate the Enhedslisten, in other words to say that I really think we should also congratulate other craftsmanships. I have been asked by journalists why on earth we had raised a question debate about the foreign warriors in Syria, since it was so obvious that I and my party agreed with the Prime Minister of the country. For the Prime Minister said when I stood in this Chamber on 3 March this year, and now I quote again there are many quotes:... but they no longer have a home in Denmark. Foreign warriors cannot come home to Denmark. Denmark is not their home. They have turned their backs on us; they have left Denmark; they have joined the Islamic State; they have confessed to the face of terror... Those people landed last night, and the Enhedslisten has demanded that the Social Democracy, the governing party, yield and take these people home. Now Mrs Mai Villadsen says that now all we need is the rest. Therefore, the question: In the Enhedslisten's optics because we have to count on that being what's going to happen... who's the rest?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145421-2	But the rest is for us in the Enhedslisten to see the remaining children, who are still in terrible Syrian camps where you are in serious danger of life. Five children are Danish. And I simply do not understand that a party like the Danish People's Party does not also think that those children naturally require protection, in and with them are Danish citizens. But yes, we certainly work for them to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145449	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145450	That's interesting. Can we then say that these are the five children involved, and that is it? For I have only previously had the belief that Enhedslisten wanted the people, i.e. the adults, the foreign warriors, who have been deprived of their Danish citizenship and therefore have no opportunity to come to Denmark, also had to go to Denmark because they should have their case tried in Denmark. But can I understand the fact that it's Enhedslisten gone away from it, so it's now and I think it's wrong enough, but we're politically different from this area that's all about the five kids, and then it's over, or how is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145526	Well, the rapporteur knows very well that we think that the children and their mothers should go to Denmark, but something I do not understand, and which I actually think is a little "yes', to be quite frankly hypocritical, is that you have a right wing who has been saying for a long time that criminal foreigners must be sent out of Denmark. When you expect other countries to take such responsibility and when there are criminal Danes abroad, why not also take responsibility for perhaps criminal foreigners? Then why don't you take them home? I think that is just so double standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145557	The next brief remark is from Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145602	Thank you. Recently, several media have described how a number of Muslim women are held to unwanted religious marriages. I would therefore like to know whether Enhedslisten agrees that one of the major challenges for integration is the parallel law that holds women in marriage, even if they are divorced from Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145628-2	First of all, I would just like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Halime Oguz, for her work against negative social control. It's so infinitely important because there are really, very many women in this country who have really big problems. I have also read the same articles and was disgusted that there are some who do not follow Danish law, and despite the fact that the marriage has been dissolved by Danish law, it is not anyway. I was also able to read that there are problems with legislation in relation to psychological violence, and perhaps it can be tightened up. I hope that the SF will be involved in this, so that perhaps we can, indeed, actually prosecute some of the imams that hold women in a grip that we cannot be served with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145722	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145722-2	But it's just one of the problems with these closed environments. There are quite a few other problems as a result of these closed environments. I am therefore somewhat surprised that the Enhedslisten, which is a party which is very concerned about freedom, equality and the rule of law, is opposed to the parallel society package, which, in my view, is the most ambitious social policy effort that has been made so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145756	And I must say that I am also extremely surprised that the SF is in the ghetto law, which not only stigmats some areas, but also throws people out, sends them from house and home. They don't necessarily know where they're gonna have to live or if they can afford it. I very much believe that it will have very big, bad social consequences, also for some of the women who live in negative social control, so I actually do not understand what the SF is doing in that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145823	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145826	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I have such a special love relationship with Enhedslisten, because it is such a party that confirms me in how different we are in this society, and you are so clean in the attitudes, and I love it, and I just want to praise Enhedslisten for the style you adopt. I never think Enhedslisten has had as much influence on Danish politics as they currently have, you are really pulling the government and it flew in your direction, and praise for it. I'm not thrilled, but I'm grateful for it. So I would like to ask: does Mrs Mai Villadsen think that it should be possible in Denmark that older people, for example, should be able to do so? can live in a home home, a private nursing home, can receive a private home help provider, or should it not be possible in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007145920-2	First of all, thanks for the rose. I think it is important that we, as parties, show what we mean and want and that we dare to show vision. And thank you for saying that as a party we have influence. I am glad to hear that there are others who notice and can see that. In relation to the welfare and freedom of care homes, it is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten think it is wrong that one should be able to withdraw profit from welfare, that one should thus be able to prey, I believe, on our common money and could make large million profits to shareholders through such large welfare companies. Does that mean I don't think there are problems in welfare? No, it is there by God, and there are obviously also a lot of people in the free-care homes who are extremely skilled at doing a great job, and that is why I believe that we should set the public sector much more free.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150022	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150022-2	But it is interesting when you hear about profit on welfare, or there could be some public offerings that are just really poorly driven. If you are able to withdraw a surplus from a private institution, it may also be because it is well run. Or does Mrs Mai Villadsen think that all public, municipal institutions are simply driven to perfection, that it is lean that not one crown is wasted? Because then you would basically do the same thing there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150103	No, and you could just take the Folketing, and I think we can spend a few crowns less, and that's how it is everywhere. There is no doubt about that, and that is why I say that trouble, bureaucracy and control must be replaced by public confidence. But I just don't think it makes any sense at all that my, your or others' tax dollars should go to the point that some shareholders can make a plunge with money to drive welfare. There I think it has been very wise in the area of school where you can actually set up free schools, but you cannot draw money out to shareholders.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150135	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150137	We are still farther away in many areas. I'd like to know something. Enhedslisten has presented an economic plan that reduces bnp by 18 billion. kr. and draws 15,700 in the bad direction of labour supply. My question is: who should look after the sick and the children and the elderly when there are fewer job vacancies?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150205	After all, over the next many years, the supply of labour is actually growing as a result of some of the policies that have been adopted and something is good and something is very bad. However, I would like to start by saying that we in the Enhedslisten are very, very critical of the consideration that just because you whip people at the bottom of our society and give tax relief at the top, it necessarily creates labour supply. We really want to help ensure that real people get into real jobs, and we need to do that, among other things. by getting some of the many unemployed in our society into employment, getting people with disabilities and people with a minority ethnic background, which is at the end of the application pile, into the labour market. We need a lot more internship. There is a great deal we can do, and employers are also very welcome to look around the European Union where there are 15 million unemployed people to hire.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150303	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150305	Yes, we agree that employment is increasing, but we also agree that if people are pulled out of work, this will increase the problem and we will need sosu assistants and other professional staff. At least Enhedslisten has said so repeatedly. So I just need to hear: Does Enhedslisten recognize the concepts of labour supply? Because New Citizens have often been criticised for wanting to go the other way based on labour supply. So is it the case that the premises and methods of calculation used by the Ministry of Finance are recognised, or is this only true when it goes the way of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150334	I know we have not criticized you for the work offering effects on your various projects, but for the content. And no, we are deeply critical of the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance, which says that if you take a little money from the millionaires or the director, he will work much, much less. I do not believe that at all, and it is the case that it has been rebutted time and time again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150358	The next brief remark is from Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150402	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur in connection with this Commission study: if one or more ministers have violated the basic law, does the rapporteur think there is a basis for impeachment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150420	Now we'll have to see what the investigation commission's gonna come up with. We think it is very sensible that it has been set up, because of course all the stones must be turned around in the matter, and then we will see what they come up with. We don't rule anything out in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150439	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150440	It is up to the rapporteur to see what is being achieved. Let me give you an example: if you have violated the basic law it sounds as if the rapporteur suddenly takes such a little light on our basic law, the constitution, and whether it should lead to an impeachment case, but if you violate the basic law and that is what comes to a clear conclusion from the Commission study, is it not relatively simple for the rapporteur to say whether it should lead to an impeachment case? We have heard Enhedslisten say in the past that there are no special rules for the current government in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150519	There are certainly no special rules for the present government in this area, and if you have deliberately violated the constitution, I find it difficult to see that a committee of inquiry will come up with anything other than an impeachment case. But now we have to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150535	The next brief remark is from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150539	Thank you. I want to talk about the same thing that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen did this because it's the great minds think alike that Enhedslisten will ban profit in welfare. I just need to understand it correctly: Well, you will close Dagmarsminde, where the elderly are incredibly happy, where they can get rid of the medicine, where it is replaced with meaning and community and presence; you will simply shut down Dagmarsminde because they seem to have some profit. I have to understand the logic: you want higher wages for people working with older people in the public sector. They may profit from it; they may profit from working with the elderly. However, if some of the public employees choose to do as the owner of Dagmarsminde and become welfare entrepreneurs and live out a dream of starting a business where you can take good care of the elderly in a care home, they must not earn money if they become owners. However, if they are employed in the public sector and work immediately, they must be paid more. What on earth is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150638	I simply find it difficult to understand why there should be such large welfare groups, which should make money from basic care and welfare in our society. After all, we have seen the scandals in the field of disability, where millions of kroner have been pulled out to some owners who have simply done something that was by no means proper. So, if it were to the Enhedslisten alone, no, then you couldn't pull out a lot of money and make a plunge on all of our tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150712	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150713	So just to confirm it: The owner of Dagmarsminde, May Bjerre Eiby, who is not a large capital group, must simply be forbidden to operate Dagmarsminde. Should Dagmarsminde be closed according to Enhedslisten? That's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150729	Now I don't know the company structure or much besides seeing the program about Dagmarsminde, which seems to make it formidable. But what we think, and that will be the message to all those who are profiting on welfare, is that no, if Enhedslisten gets 90 mandates, you have to rewrite so that the money drives into the community and is spent on the elderly instead of going to some people who earn rushing with money.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150756	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150800	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Both the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten are very concerned about young people and education. Before the summer a very broad agreement was reached on the relocation of education, which we Radicals and a few other parties are outside, but which Enhedslisten is part of. I would like to learn more about Enhedslisten's reasoning in order to be part of that agreement. It is difficult to be against the idea of having education throughout Denmark. We would very much like to be involved in this, and we would very much like to be involved in building up education. However, the idea that we benefit by cutting down and removing something where there are actually well-functioning education is hard for me to see reason in, especially when everyone including Enhedslisten's own hinterland, I understand, has warned of the consequences of what we can now see, which are savings and cuts, which mean fewer study places in large cities, despite the fact that we have about 45,000 young people who have no education. Would it not have been better to get hold of them instead of hitting young people who want to be trained, as we will of course come to with the agreement that has been reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007150857	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Stinus Lindgreen and Radical in general for really, really good cooperation in the field of education. After all, we have been rapporteurs together in the field of research, and thank you very much for that. I think there are a great many challenges in the agreement that has been reached, but there were some problems in the current system too. After all, young people are becoming smaller and, therefore, the institutions around the countryside are becoming increasingly starving, and more of them are closing. This is the challenge we face if we do not do something now and make sure that some training places are moved out. I can give my own sister an example. She was educated as a social worker a couple of years ago and had to commute and spend a long time over one hour a day. ▪ Although she lived in Herning, in order to become a social worker, now there is an education in Herning. I think that is very good for the future. It's the same with my parents who have become teachers from the same area. You can't stay in the area where they are. That's a problem. If this does not present any challenges for universities, for professional education and so on.? Yes, it does. That's why I'm glad we got a milder phase-in in this deal. We must, of course, look to preserve the small study environments and be careful, but the status quo would also be a deterioration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151017	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151018	Thank you. As I said, I agree with the issue. I just do not agree with the solution that has been found, even though it has become better than the starting point. The rapporteur himself now mentions, among other things: the training of teachers, and it is clear that there are courses, it is easier to create new places in the country. We would very much like to be involved in this. But there are educations that make very little sense in moving just a part of. These are particularly the research-heavy courses. Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur really think that 10% can be taken. by e.g. a nuclear physicist education and move it from the capital to another place in the country or take other research-heavy knowledge-based educations and just move them on an equal footing with others? It is not because they are qualitatively better, but because they are just different.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151058	I think that there can be enormous challenges by splitting up relatively small research environments. You are so infinitely dependent on the sparring and exchange that you have with each other when you sit there physically. That is why it can also cause major problems. So, yes, there are major challenges in the field of research too, and I hope that we in the contracting circle can help to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151123	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151126	Thank you very much, and thank you for an exciting and visionary speech. When Enhedslisten joined the so-called green car agreement, which sends 600,000 more cars on the street in 2030, I asked Enhedslisten's previous forewoman, Mrs Pernille Skipper, what Enhedslisten is doing in that agreement, and she answered me with such a slightly disarming smile something like, as far as I remember: Yes, I hardly know either. I would now like to put the question to the current President of the Enhedslisten, Mrs Mai Villadsen: what on earth is Enhedslisten doing in this agricultural agreement that has shot a lot of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151209	But, to put it mildly, I have not been silent about the fact that we in the Group of the European People's Party think that the Agriculture Agreement is, to put it mildly, inadequate, that it finds everything, too few real CO2 2 and why are we in it? Well, the rapporteur knows as well as I do that if you are to find more CO2 what we are doing in the Enhedslisten, which I think is absolutely right, is to bite us on the edge of the table. It is to stay inside the negotiating room for the next nine years with all our visions and good green ideas, so that we actually have an impact on meeting the targets and when some of the technology the government is setting up and the agreement is going to fail, then we are ready to implement better solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151319	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151321	It annoys me that there are no more parties in the Folketing who want to maintain their credibility and their integrity in saying: Enough is enough! There is, of course, a huge criticism of this agreement on agriculture from the green organisations. There are indeed many who had hoped that Enhedslisten would also be involved in saying this, and not anymore! This could also help to push parties into future climate agreements by knowing in advance that there are limits to what they want to be involved in. I understand Enhedslisten's desire to influence the nine years, but I have to say, and perhaps it is most of a comment that I am disappointed that we could not stand together and resist this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151358	I would have wanted us to be together, too. I read a quote some time ago which sounded something like: Sometimes you have the choice between doing what is right and what is easy. And how easy it would have been for us to stand out on the sidelines shouting and screaming, but in two days' time it would have been a disaster for the climate. That's why we stay inside. It is also because in this agreement there are quite no deteriorations. These are major improvements; they are just not good enough at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151426	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151429	I think this is a really healthy philosophy, because politics is not about being right. It's about getting right, like Mr. Kim. Christian Mejdahl always said. I think that's good words, you can put yourself behind your ear. There are two proposals for adoption before us here today, one of which rejects any fight against poverty benefits, and the other says that there must be a fight against child poverty. That is why we have chosen the proposal for adoption that says that there must be a fight with child poverty. I would like to address this to Mrs Mai Villadsen, because perhaps Mrs May Villadsen's party is the most vocal and explicit support party in the demand to the government that, in the context of the Commission on Child Welfare and the negotiations we are holding here, there should be a fight against child poverty and with the benefits that lead to child poverty. How far is the Enhedslisten willing to go in the pressure on the government here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151529	To start with, I would like to thank the KD and the rapporteur for the courage to stand as part of the blue block and yet be very, very clear about the fact that poverty, especially for children, does not belong in our society. I think this is really, really important, and I really hope that it can be a new break and push some of the other blue people in this Chamber. So thank you for that. I mean, we hope to be able to cooperate with a great many parties, among others. KD, about getting something done about these poverty-creating benefits. Because I think it is quite crazy that we have a society where some children simply go outside the community because their parents have somehow ended up in a place where they do not have much money. We cannot be served with this, and that is why we are ready to press the government very much on this matter, and I very much hope that this can be the start of joint cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151627	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151629	Yes, it can most certainly be, for making poor people can never become a civil virtue. We don't mind people getting rich if they work for it and make money, but you don't have to hit people in the head to feel your own freedom. It is a strange calculator philosophy that has come into the bourgeois Denmark unfortunately. So there we are completely on that agenda. But where does Enhedslisten see the biggest problem in the Recommendations of the Service Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151706	I think there are a number of challenges in what the Service Commission has come up with. On the one hand, the actual education was to feed the dog with its own tail, if I may say so, it was a cost-neutral starting point and, on the other hand, especially young people with great psychological challenges have become the losers in the game that has come. They are losing huge amounts of money, and it is about someone who has really, really hard to get into the labour market or into the education system like that. So it just can't be done. In relation to bourgeois virtues, I would just like to acknowledge the Christian Democrats for having the courage to say about the benefits of integration that this discrimination does not belong in our society either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151749	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151752	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In the Left we have noticed that Enhedslisten in among others. the agricultural negotiations in one way or another, it seems to Denmark as a climate cheese bell understood in such a way that it seems that Enhedslisten does not recognise that the abandonment of production in Denmark leads to production elsewhere. That's one. The second is: Does Enhedslisten recognise that production in Denmark and the fact that we have a large export is a foundation for our welfare? Or is it the case that the Enhedslisten says: Denmark is a cheese bell, and therefore we work within the cheese bell? Does Enhedslisten believe that it can ensure our well-being in the long run?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151848	Of course we live in a global world, and there is the exchange of goods, people and everything across borders. We are not a cheese bell; neither are we when we look at the climate. But I actually want to put down two bourgeois myths. One is that if you turn down some production in Denmark, it only occurs 100 per cent. other places. It's not gonna happen like that. I think that was also the reasoning behind the fact that the Left itself was included in the agreement to turn down oil production, because there were studies that pointed out that even if you do, it does not just pop up 100 per cent. Somewhere else. So I would urge the author to listen to the environmental economic wise men who say exactly that. So it is not quite true that production is simply moving. The second myth, which I hear time and again, is that in Denmark we have the most climate-friendly agriculture. In some sectors, yes, farmers do very well. However, there are also quite considerable problems, including those relating to the environment. with pigs fed soy directly from the rain forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151947	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007151949	I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur is of the opinion that in the global market for example. pork Denmark can play a role. Denmark's production is a tiny part of what is happening in the global market. Does the rapporteur not think that, after all, there may be 80% contamination in leakage? And does this not at all play a role in the deliberations of the Enhedslisten about jobs and export earnings?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152023	There is no doubt that climate leaks are taking place. I don't know what percentage of pig exports, for example. I am very sorry that we did not succeed in this agreement, even though I think it will also create many jobs, is to prohibit the transport of piglets across national borders. This is something that many of us think is not in any way in line with animal welfare, but which in fact also harms Danish jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152055	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152059	Thank you for that, President. I'd like to follow up on that question, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl explained that Enhedslisten has fought to get foreign fighters back to Denmark, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl then asked how many more Enhedslisten want to Denmark. It might be interesting to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152127	I really want to give that back. According to my information, there are now five children and their mothers who, unfortunately, do not come to Denmark this time because women have been deprived of their Danish citizenship because they are double citizens. The children, on the other hand, are Danish citizens, and that is why I think we have a responsibility to help them and take both sides home.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152152	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152153	One must then assume that it is about five that Enhedslisten will fight for to be returned. But what is interesting in this discussion is that one woman has dual citizenship. Will the Enhedslisten then fight for her to be deprived of her Danish citizenship because she has now, like Denmark, turned her back and there is an opportunity for this woman to have her Danish citizenship withdrawn? Is that something that Enhedslisten is in favour of? After all, we also have more criminal foreigners in our prisons who are to be expelled to a country other than Denmark, and it is a little difficult to find out in relation to the Enhedslisten and also in relation to the police negotiations that are under way. But will the Enhedslisten secure it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152243	Now I think those trials must take their course for the women who have come home. Something that puzzles me is that both the Police Intelligence Service and I also think that the Defence Intelligence Service have been out saying that it is most safe for Denmark to make sure that these people are on Danish soil, because then we can keep an eye on what they are doing. Then we know that the children are not being pulled out and radicalized, and we are all actually safer. I simply do not understand why the Danish People's Party, which I otherwise experience as a party that listens a lot to the police, chooses to ignore it completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152316	The next brief remark is to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152320	Thank you. I'm going to follow up on that, my colleague, sir. Thomas Danielsen mentioned earlier, namely a possible impeachment case, and I think perhaps the rapporteur misunderstood the question as the rapporteur replied how the Commission might submit its report. What was asked was how the Enhedslisten, if the Commission gives a report that is that not only the general laws, but also the constitution have been violated by one or more ministers, will then stand as a prosecutor. We are members of parliament in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152359	Unlike the Left, we do not decide whether there should be an impeachment now until we hear the basis of a committee of inquiry and we have to see what it says. It is clear that if it clearly states that there has been a deliberate breach of one law, another law and third law, and they then recommend an impeachment, then it is difficult to see that we have to oppose it. However, contrary to the Left, we do not draw conclusions in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152429	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152431	No, but that is also why I put forward a prerequisite in my question, precisely so that we do not have to philosophize on further conclusions. I said: if the premise is that the investigating commission arrives at a breach of the Constitution, what is the Enhedslisten's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152442	We will have to consider whether or not they will recommend an impeachment and if they recommend it, I find it difficult to see that we are opposed by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152456	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152500	Thank you. I wasn't really going to take the floor, but then I just got a little provocative, and you can always get up. It was because the rapporteur said that it was bad that the SF was in the ghetto agreement, because ghetto is a stigmatizing word. I was a little surprised because, firstly, the Minister for Housing has said that he will not use the word ghetto, and secondly, we have just reached an agreement where we abolish the word ghetto. So now Enhedslisten is the only one who uses that word. I would just say there if Enhedslisten thinks it's a wrong word to use that we are some others who have stopped using it. In addition, I really think that we need Enhedslisten to get into the fight in terms of ending decades of misguided housing policy. I come from a municipality where we have four vulnerable residential areas and where, when I grew up, there were three different gangs, one in each of the three areas. I have worked at a school where reeducational trips, punishment of the girls in the form of wearing scarf when they were given menstruation, and social control was a totally normal part of everyday life. We have problems with high schools where there is an overweight of bilingual pupils, we have problems with primary schools, and we have to make legislation on day-to-day provision. Yet Enhedslisten still hasn't made a single offer on how to do this. So isn't it too easy just to stand and criticize it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152613	First of all, I would like to take up the rapporteur's point about not using the word ghetto. I'm sure we won't. However, I still think it is an agreement that is deeply stigmatising because it points out that because people have a particular ethnic background, it is possible to classify the areas as special. In addition, however, I would agree entirely with the questioner that there are major problems in the housing market in Denmark. I myself have lived in a common home in the Northwest for a very many years in a very vulnerable area where there are huge problems in schools, in the institutions, in crime and everything else, and that is actually not true when the questioner says that we have not made any proposals on the part of the Enhedslisten. We have made a number of proposals, for example. to how to require private landlords to take particularly vulnerable groups into their homes. We have come up with a whole host of different policies. We have an entire housing policy programme which deals with this issue. So I'm sorry we haven't gotten far beyond the ramp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152715	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152716	However, it is a good idea for individuals to take in more, but it will not change the fact that we are not getting rid of the residential areas that have been built in a completely insane way that create such closed parallel societies. When I look beyond the map, the parallel community agreement has led to development plans being drawn up in all the municipalities where there are problems. rip down to open up the areas. Many of the places have Enhedslisten even, as far as I remember, been there for themselves. So isn't it creating a scaremongering? Because what is happening in the country right now is that more people are getting training, that more people are going to work and that we are breaking up in those areas where there have been problems. And it creates a lot of positive effects, also in our welfare institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152756	After all, the consequences of the parallel social agreement that you are involved in are that some homes are sold directly to private people. I do not understand that it can be SF policy that some homes are being demolished, while some people simply do not know where to live and may end up living in housing that is even more expensive, even though they are having a difficult time already. I don't understand. I've lived as a neighbor to such a ghetto block myself. My block was probably almost as exposed, but people were white in the skin, and that's why you weren't part of the parallel society package. I just thought that was crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152827	The next brief remark is from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152832	Thank you. I can't help but follow up on my good colleague, sir. Preben Bang Henriksens, question. To me, it is not in the commission of inquiry to recommend either a yes or a no to an impeachment. We are not going to have such a clear conclusion. On the other hand, it is the Folketing which has to make that decision. What, then, does the rapporteur say with that information, if now and there is something suggesting that the basic law has been violated? We're not getting a clear answer from the investigation commission. But if we get hints, but not clear answers, that the Constitution may have been violated, what will the rapporteur and the Enhedslisten be like?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152917	We are awaiting the conclusion, and then we have to look into whether the basic law has been deliberately violated, and then I find it very difficult to see that we should not back up an impeachment case. However, I do not understand that the Left has any more rather more creative questions than the one to ask today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152935	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007152937	We can also discuss all sorts of other creative things about graduation rates and inequality in society and a lot of other things on which I think the rapporteur has an opinion, but that is not what I want to ask the rapporteur. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is what the rapporteur means in the first place? If there is anything suggesting that the constitution has been violated, it is very, very grave in my world; it is a huge problem. But what does the rapporteur put in the word deliberately versus any suggestion? We just want to know where Enhedslisten is on this legal issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153013	I could also use other terms as intentionally or intentionally. It is, of course, like what is in the word deliberately, and then we have to see the conclusion. I don't think I can get much closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153027	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153032	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech, and thank you for your good cooperation in drawing the government in a greener direction. That's what we needed. Having said that, we do not have many of the same common wishes, dreams and longings for Danish society; not least when it comes to economics, we often disagree. Right now we are watching that Enhedslisten many times seems to have invented some money trees from which some thousand kroner notes can be pulled down at will. But the biggest problem in Denmark right now is actually the lack of labour, and it is quite serious when it comes to continuing to have growth and also being able to invest in green conversion. We have among other things. proposed that the limit should be reduced from DKK 37,000 to DKK 27,000. We hear that Enhedslisten is talking about social dumping, but the rapporteur really believes that DKK 27 000. a month is about social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153124	I am glad that in the new Agriculture Agreement we have jointly set aside a great deal of money for afforestation. I didn't know it was money trees, but if it is, I'll be even happier. However, I do believe that in the Enhedslisten we are funding all our proposals, perhaps not in a way that Conservatives particularly agree with or like, but we are doing so after all. In relation to the limit on the amount, which we have discussed quite a lot here in Parliament during the day and understandably enough, because it is clear that there is an acute shortage of labour in some sectors now and here, I simply do not think that the limit on the amount is the way to go. I do not think that we should compromise in any way on wages or working conditions in Denmark, but that we should, for example, compromise on wages or working conditions in Denmark. Instead, we should look at the 15 million people in the European Union who are unemployed and then make sure that some of the people, those who are a little outside and on the edge or outside of the labour market, enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153222	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153224	I think there are many things we can do in terms of securing labour. There is no doubt about that. Conservatives have also made a number of proposals, both in relation to those who stand and do not have a job in Denmark, and in relation to being able to get people to do something more, thus giving an incentive to it. But the question is: Does Enhedslisten believe that it is social dumping with DKK 27,000. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153247	It is certainly in one way or another to put out the people who are in the European Union and in Denmark and who could otherwise have taken the work, and that is why we are extremely concerned that it should be this way, and I must also just say: the labour market is, after all, a market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153317	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153320	Thank you. I'd like to go back to the investigation commission. The rapporteur said that if the Prime Minister deliberately, intentionally or intentionally • I think these were the words the rapporteur used • had violated the Constitution, Enhedslisten could not see any way around an impeachment case. Now, of course, I am not going to be wise on Enhedslisten's world picture, but in my world picture there is no one who deliberately, intentionally or intentionally violates the constitution, but there may be people who do so because of gross negligence, and if we now assume that the Prime Minister, on the basis of gross negligence, has violated the Constitution, will the Enhedslisten vote in favour of impeachment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153408	Here, in the fourth question from the Left, I simply will not go further into the matter. Unlike the Left, I would just like to say that we in the Enhedslist have not drawn any conclusions in advance. The former was seen when, as a party, you voted for impeachment without actually knowing what to say about the background properly. It's actually one of those days when I've been most shaken here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153433	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153434	I understand that it is painful for the rapporteur to answer these kinds of questions, and I also sense that the rapporteur is getting so annoyed that we in the Left continue to return to the committee of inquiry. But it is a serious matter, and it is also a serious matter, if the Prime Minister, by manifesting gross negligence, has violated the constitution of the Kingdom. That is why I think that it cannot be a question which is difficult to answer. Then the rapporteur could not try to answer: what is the position of the Enhedslisten if the Prime Minister has been grossly negligent?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153512	I would like to come to the rapporteur as far as to say that it is extremely serious. It is extremely serious that there was no legal basis. I fully agree with that. And the reason why I might get a little dicked is that some parties have simply taken a position in advance without seeing what the committee of inquiry brings in. I simply do not think that is the right thing to do in this matter, and that is not what we are going to do in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153537	Then there will be room for one more brief remark, that is. a set of brief comments. It's from sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153544	Thank you. Now the rapporteur has wanted, I think it was creativity from the Left. I shall then try to contribute to that on the last question. I would like to focus on the situation around Kærshovedgård. When I think back to the final debate in this Chamber, as I remember, Mr. Christian Juhl, that when he moved in the area, he did not experience insecurity among the citizens. Now it has happened in the meantime that about 1,000 citizens have signed that they are actually so my question to Mrs Mai Villadsen is: How do you think the government is handling the situation around Kærshovedgård? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153625	I do not think we should belittle the fact that there are people sitting over there who are insecure. In fact, I think we Christiansborg should take this seriously. In the Enhedslisten, we do not think it makes much sense to create such large exit centres, which is why I am sorry that no alternative solutions have yet been found to this problem. But, of course, you have to take it very seriously that people feel insecure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153652	Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153653	Thank you. Quite briefly: could the rapporteur enrich us with what Enhedslisten's proposal is to solve the problem of Kærshovedgård?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153708	From the Enhedslisten side we have come up with a proposal earlier, when there were discussions about Langeland and about other areas, that instead, when the legislation is as it is, we do not really agree with the fact that we should do much, much smaller centres that are distributed around the country, also like in the vicinity of the larger cities where there are far more people employed as social workers, in the police and in all possible ways that could meet this challenge as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153742	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then the 45 minutes for questions have been completed and the next rapporteur can be welcomed. It is the rapporteur, and the chairman, of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007153758	Thank you. I think that many of us have seen it when we drive through an industrial area or go for a walk through the pedestrian street: in windows there are more and more signs that here you can get a job. We need hands in Denmark. It's like we're standing in the harvest season, the grain is ripe, the weather is good, but the harvester's gear doesn't work. The growth in Danish economy roars away, the orders come in from abroad, and Danish companies are ready to make money and pay even more in tax. But we need manpower. Right now, we're gonna miss the harvest. Every day, Denmark and Danish companies miss orders and growth. The Prime Minister's opening speech addressed the same problem, but I do not think we came very close to the solutions. Denmark lacks 32,000 sets of hands. The lack of labour results in a social loss of over 30 billion. kr. a year. Six out of ten companies see the lack of labour as their biggest challenge. How do we expect to afford welfare if we say no to foreign orders? We know the solution: we need reforms and we know which ones work. At Christiansborg there are solutions that everyone knows work, but which produce almost allergic reactions to parts of the Folketing: You should not talk about tax cuts, for think now if you are allowed to keep a little more of your own money. Imagine if the inequality in Denmark rose a tiny bit in one of the world's most equal countries • Uha da! Take e.g. The top treasure. We raise the top tax limit by just 44,000 kroner. Honestly, I think you should be extremely jealous if you want to think that this is a problem. In the Conservative People's Party we want to lighten the tax both at the top and at the bottom, for the director and cashier. We want to lighten the tax for everyone. Because we know that this will mean that more people take an extra job, so both they and the company in which they work will earn a little more for themselves and Denmark. Another solution we know to work is to open up more foreign labour. Here in the Folketing we already have an arrangement that we can use, which both solves the challenge and which is good for foreign policy. I am thinking, of course, of the system of amounts, which, as everyone knows, is a system for admitting qualified foreign workers. It's pretty brilliantly screwed up, because it works in such a way that you can only be in Denmark if you have an annual salary of DKK 445,000. or more and abide by the law. If you lose your job, you have to go home. In other words, only law-abiding and contributing citizens have a stay in Denmark through this scheme. We should expand that arrangement. This can be done by lowering the limit, for then more can contribute to Denmark's growth. In Denmark, we have a common understanding that we need a public sector that works and a business sector that works. And I would like us in Denmark to be able to afford to deliver a high level of welfare. I also recognise that it will cost more money. That is why I have made a vow of welfare on behalf of my party. I'm not gonna promise I'm the one who's gonna spend the most money. In fact, I think I can guarantee that both the government and the left can beat me when it comes to spending. But I promise I'll spend enough money. I promise that the tasks must be done with dignity, dignity and care. And just as important: Conservative People's Party will always be watching for a healthy economy, so that we can afford our welfare. I am thinking, not least, of our older people. Many times I have talked about the documentary • Care homes behind the facade, where we saw Else Marie Larsen from the nursing home Kongsgården suffer severe neglect. When we close our eyes, we can all see Else before us, and the diaper that is not being changed. But today I am not going to focus on failure, but on care as experienced in the new TV2 documentary...It's not over yet. The documentary is about the home Dagmarsminde in Grassted, where difficult demented lives. Here we meet, among other things. the former apothecary Thorkild, for whom everyday life can quickly become incalculable, and loud sounds give rise to both shock and frustration. Thorkild and his wife, Vibeke, are new residents of Dagmarsminde. Thorkild doesn't want to move in, but he embraces and meets with recognition and tranquility, even when it's difficult. Here most medicines are replaced with care, and in a beautiful way Thorkild and Vibeke are allowed to live their lives as they can, with self-respect, because of the concern and patience of the employees, even when it is the end of the evening and Thorkild for the third time insists that now he must again wear a coat and a trip down to the henhouse. Imagine being so lucky when you're in that situation, getting old there. It is the epitome of dignity, and it is driven by clear leadership and properness. At Dagmarsminde they live life, even though not all of them are so far away. Now I come to the marvellous thing: the money for them is the same as for municipal nursing homes. This is the example of the fact that public sector solutions are not just sending more money. Last week we launched a new elder initiative that is deeply inspired by Thorkild and by the treatment of the old ones. Because you have grown old and maybe weak, you have not lost the will to decide for yourself who comes to your home and what food you want to eat. We propose that we provide a better opportunity for the private initiative to live, we propose the creation of more senior homes and free-care homes, that the rates be calculated fairly in the municipalities so that the private ones are not kept out involuntarily. We will make it easier to choose home help from private suppliers, and we want to double the clip card scheme so that the elderly can choose for themselves. We want all nursing homes to become more like Thorkild's Dagmarsminde. This is done through clear management and more dignity, but it also requires that the Danish economy is in a position to succeed, so that in the future we can also afford the Denmark that we all love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154541	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one to be heard is Mr Beazley. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154548	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I should like to ask whether the Conservatives believe that we need more people taking vocational training in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154558	Yeah, I definitely think there is. It would be almost stupid to say the opposite. We can see that. If we are to succeed in the green transition, we need more young people who want to take up vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154609	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154610	I am very pleased and also very much in agreement with that answer. I am asking because the Conservatives in the draft budget for this year have chosen to abolish the option currently available for vocational training of 110%. of the daily allowance rate and instead have chosen to spend the money on a large number of tax cuts. Is this a sensible priority in the situation we are in, where we need more people who are taking vocational training, especially more who are lifting from unskilled to skilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154636	This is probably where we look differently at what we're going to do and what there's going to be money for in the boxes. I mean, about 110%. We have just chosen to say that we are not the first in our priorities to give priority to the long list of things we want to do. There we would rather families have some more money for themselves, so that they can give priority to taking another education without having to have 110%. in cash benefits. It's a priority we don't look at the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154705	The next brief remark is to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154710	Thank you. In SF we are very happy and also quite proud that we have managed to get free psychological assistance for young people with anxiety and depression, albeit only young people under 25 years of age, but we have to start somewhere. We are because we know that our young people and children are more pressured than they have been in the past, and Corona has only made it worse. I think it is worrying, and therefore I am also surprised that Søren Pape Poulsen, on the National Council of the Conservative People's Party, reduced the alarming development to the general nervousness of exams and girlfriends' sorrows and even of spilled milk in the great recess. For me, anxiety and depression are real mental disorders that require professional treatment. Does Søren Pape Poulsen still stand by that statement, or does Conservatives also think that it is a good idea that we actually provide help for those young people who have anxiety and depression today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154811	I'm really glad I get that question, and I expected it too. I have to say that I was really, really sorry about the way in which the Chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr. Jacob Mark moved down by using my National Council address to make a fictional quote of something I hadn't said. I think that is a bad way of discussing this. Let us discuss the positions we have and not invent quotes. I feel that we must, of course, treat young people seriously and take this seriously, but my point was that if we are to have the advice and the manpower to do this, I would remind you that it is not, after all, because we have piles of unemployed psychologists in this country, there is also a need to be things that can be difficult and that can hurt our lives, which we may need to start by going to the family rather than going to a psychologist. You can't get it all, and that's why I used the picture with the girlfriend cares, because it could be the result of this free psychology approach, which SF originally suggested. I know that's not what it ended up with, but that's what you guys originally proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154920	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007154921	Some arrangements have been made around the municipalities which ensure this a little more free access, and of course it is not a reference to the doctor, but from here it has always been with medical reference. And it's not because we want to make up quotes, but Søren Pape Poulsen said: In fact, SF has suggested that the public should pay for a psychologist whose school pupils have girlfriend cares. So it's not to make up a quote. That is what the rapporteur said. So I would just like to hear whether the rapporteur does not think we should take it seriously when so many young people have such great psychological challenges as they have today. And isn't it really reasonable that when you get public help, when you break your leg, you can also get help if you break your psyche?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155004	That's what we're gonna do. We must take this very seriously. Maybe we're also about to have a conversation in this society about why so many young people are in a bad way. After all, it is somewhere thought-provoking in a society like ours, where we feel so good and are materially fantastic that so many young people are fighting so many things. That should call for a greater discussion which I do not think we can take from here. But I just want to say just as quietly what I said in my national council speech: Young people may need professional help. Too many lose their spark and are plagued by negative thoughts and unreasonable self - blame or anxiety. I think that we should give priority to helping them The public sector should not be a roof-top table, because we should be doing that my whole sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155051	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155055	Thank you. I think I have sensed such a positive vibration that I hope we may even be able to fly on here. Then let me try. The aviation industry itself, in its climate partnership, the climate partnership for the whole sector, has proposed a climate fund for the conversion of the aviation industry in particular. Are you Conservatives prepared to introduce this climate contribution so that we can really have that industry transformed, because a future without being able to move around the globe is probably not something, neither the rapporteur nor I imagine?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155139	No, the idea that we stop flying, I think, is quite a challenge, and that will never happen, I think. Then we should also like to have the conversion of the entire air traffic. And our rapporteur, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen was out to comment on it yesterday. What we want is what the industry itself has proposed in private terms, namely that they levy a tax and ensure that it is invested in research into new fuels. We're glad about that part of it. We think it should be kept there. We do not think it should go into the treasury of the Finance Minister, because then we could suddenly risk a majority in this Parliament saying that we should not spend it on something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155216	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155218	However, if we are all to contribute precisely a climate contribution, we need to have a structure around it. Then we can talk about how and how we will deal with it, as long as we agree that the transformation of the sector in the way proposed by the climate partnership will be the way we listen to it, so that we do something about it; that we make sure that the conversion is really speeded up, that we get air in, whether you like, and poured fuel on, which is green, so that we succeed. Otherwise, we will be lagging behind, and this is one of the very, very large areas that we have not tackled in terms of reducing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155300	In fact, I think that the industry itself has proposed this, that is to say that we should not do something that we take in the industry and which we invest in fuels, shows what I think is actually characteristic of Danish business, namely that very many parts of Danish business are far ahead of the political debate when it comes to the green transition. They're on their way, they're on their way. We're gonna go crazy. And then we have some things to do here, like it, I think, excellent deal we got together the other night.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155325	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155329	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen on behalf of the rapporteur. I mean, I'm an enthusiastic man today, because Conservatives have jumped out in relation to talking so much about older people and older people's politics. I think that is absolutely fantastic, and I have really looked forward to having to come to that day. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen will have to excuse me, but I have just the slight suspicion that this is also due to the fact that there are municipal elections on 16 November. So we just need to figure out how deep it is. I do not demand that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen remembers the proposal in detail, but we tabled a motion for a resolution this spring on strengthening the rights of the elderly and strengthening the rock card system, etc., in other words some of the things we have talked about today. There may well have been things in it that were not quite as the Conservatives would write it. I would just like to say that we have put forward such a proposal. We did this in order to get the government to take the area of elderly people seriously. At any rate, I would like to invite us to work together on this, because then we could re-submit the proposal and also show that in practice, when we vote in this Chamber, we really do want to do so. For, unfortunately, the very motion for a resolution we tabled did not receive the support of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155438	It might be that sometimes, in some areas where we can find each other, we should sit down and say: can we work this together? We voted against the motion for a resolution on an old-age law because, I believe, minimum standards were also included in it, and we are so fundamentally opposed to that. We were also opposed to minimum standards in the area of day care. But I believe in the agenda. And I also said in my question to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Full recognition that DF has been raising this agenda for many, many years. I think we should see if we could sit down and find each other in a number of these areas, and I would like to see more parties. Then we can see if we can push it through so we can secure this dignified old age for our old. I think we owe it to that generation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155525	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155527	It's super good, and there's no copyright in politics, so it's just that we find each other together. And if we could have such a thing as the rock card scheme legally and expanded, then it is also, you might say, a kind of minimum right that you get as an elderly person, because then you will have a right to have some time that he can have, that is, some time that is made available, one that comes and helps you, and you can have a greater right for yourself, in relation to what the time is spent on giving the individual elderly quality of life. Of course. I believe that these are places where we must be able to find each other with the exchanges of views that have been held here during today's day. I'm so excited, and I'm just looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155602	I'd like to make a promise, too. I should have done that in the first round, but now I get the second round to do it in. I promise you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that after 16 November I will also be equally involved in this discussion, because I actually think it is really, really important. I think it is important that we take some of these debates. I'd like to catch my own bosom, too, because I remember my own mayor's time. There I could think it was a bit in the way when Christiansborg wanted to define what things should be like. But I also have to acknowledge that when you get the money over the frame, sometimes it happens that the arrangements can ebb out a little. We're gonna have a talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155635	The next brief remark is to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155638	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Conservative People's Party for joining many of us, in other words helping to ensure that people were evacuated from Afghanistan when we saw it burst together here recently. After all, it was both former interpreters, embassy staff and also some NGOs that we got out. I'm really glad that there were many of us who could figure out how to do that together. Now we're just in a situation where some of these NGOs are still missing down there. Many of those who are now in danger of the Taliban are women's rights activists who have been profiled and who have worked on the Danish Women's Rights Project. They've been stalked by the Taliban right now. Many of them sit and hide around and have gone underground and cannot get out. We have an opportunity from the Danish side to help them out. We were very, very close to making a political agreement on this a few weeks ago, but unfortunately Conservatives and the Left withdrew from the agreement just at the last minute. I would just like to ask you a few more questions about this, including here in the Assembly, in other words how Conservatives can defend that precisely those women who have worked so hard for freedom and women's rights in those years, we will not give a helping hand now and ensure that they can actually get to safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155748	We have said that we were in the original agreement. We have to say that it just became a little more than the 100 you were expecting. We have wanted to take responsibility for that part, that is to say for those where we can document it and where we can say that they have had a job so that they are in danger. We have helped to help Denmark. But I also feel that we must not equate it and see that if you have ever, as NGOs, been involved in digging a bread or doing something similar to Danish, you are automatically in danger. So we simply do not accept that premise, because then what, and where does the limit go? Are there 15,000 Afghans who have done this, or 20,000? We've just said where the boundaries are. If you can document it and say that these people are in danger because they have done exactly that and that, then we have always said that we are happy to look at it. However, the point about saying that if you are NGOs... the Taliban also needs the NGOs... we see that... we don't want everyone to just have the right to come to Denmark. I can't do that. At least we will lose the support of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155851	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155852	But I'm sorry, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, that is simply not what was at issue here. Of course, all the NGOs that can still stay down there and work must stay and work in Afghanistan, because that is what we need. However, we know that there are women's rights activists who are personally and directly persecuted and who are hiding from the Taliban now. What we were talking about was an agreement that could evacuate up to 100 people. That's not a lot. There was a clear ceiling of up to 100 people of exactly those here who had worked for Danish NGOs and who were in direct danger. That was quite clear. So when Conservatives don't want to be involved, it's very, very difficult to see it as anything other than forsaking your responsibility to these very women who are now in deep danger and that you might do so because you are a little concerned about foreign policy. So it's just an appeal and really an outstretched hand for Conservatives to reconsider this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155941	There was an outstretched hand. Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007155942	Thank you. It's always good with outstretched hands. But if it were because we were afraid of foreign policy, then we would never have agreed that 900 could be evacuated. Well, we agreed to this because we could see that there was something we were supposed to be involved in lifting. I hope, then, that we are equally ready to carry out the task once they have come here, that is, those who have come to Denmark. Because now we have to make sure that these children go to school and that the adults come out to order something so that it doesn't end up and that they just sit and look into a cash aid in 5, 10 and 15 years. But if it is clear that you have been in danger, then we have said that we will look at it. But it's not a free draw right.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160021	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160023	Thank you. I remember, too, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen mayor's time. We have known each other for many, many years at all. Perhaps, therefore, it is not so strange for us to consider Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen as Prime Minister of bourgeois Denmark. I've seen sir. Søren Pape Poulsen's work, and it is always an advantage that you have a good municipal knowledge. I can just wonder a little bit about it, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen said about his background, that is, what he said earlier in the day, namely: I do not want to help give the municipalities a right to do something I do not like; it is about free elections. But why not let municipal autonomy decide for itself how to organise your home help? Why do things always have to be dictated from in here? Why do we have to define what the right free choice is and what the right way to do it is? Why not let the municipal councils do it themselves? I'm quite sure that when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was the mayor, he also wanted to have a little more freedom of decision than was the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160131	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160132	I think it is in the local political job that the least possible interference can be seen from anyone. When I just reacted to it earlier in the day, it was because I was stitched that it was a little absurd to try free municipalities, to set the municipalities free, and that that freedom would then be used to take the free choice away from people. I feel that it is simply too much for me to be completely honest. Then I agree that municipalities must of course have the freedom to do some things, even if I do not think this is a good idea. It shouldn't be different. You also have to be able to test some things and set the municipalities free. I also grabbed a little bit in my own bosom. I have actually done a lot in connection with the older political discussion we have had because when I was mayor, I could also take care of myself thinking that it is easier in terms of structure, if we on the part of the municipality can just make all the plans, because then it is more lean. There could be too many things coming in from the right and the left, and it could be some trouble with this free choice, etc., and now it shouldn't get out of hand either. There I just feel that there are some things I look back on and say that perhaps we should have been even better at looking at the old ones that we have to help and that it is not the systems that should be well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160239	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160240	Then there were also a few free space things that didn't go quite as they should. - Sir, you can. Søren Pape Poulsen well remember. It was something about cleaning and stuff where the municipal then had to go in and clean up. So it's not always that simple. Let me turn to another point, which I have also asked about in others, and I can also use Viborg as an example. I remember that, after the economy had been well cleaned up, the municipality, among other things. under Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's mayor's time actually had plenty of money. Then we would like to invest in different things, but we could not, because there was a service ceiling. What does Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen to free the municipalities in connection with the service ceiling, if we have the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160324	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160325	I know that every year the municipalities do a little thing about it at the KL meetings: who should deprive any plant, and who should take out any service to make it connected? I also believe that if we are to be able to control the economic situation in Denmark it was Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also mentioned a little earlier this day we need to have some framework. Then we can always discuss where they should be, but that there should be a framework for the economy of the municipalities, I think quite simply necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160351	Then it's mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160354	Thank you for that. Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for a good speech, and not least thanks for stating that there should be enough money • enough money for welfare. That is why it is very obvious to ask whether this also means that the Conservatives will allow the money for welfare to follow the demographic trait, so that when more children and more older people arrive, the money goes with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160420	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160421	No, we don't, because we think that's wrong. Even the Ministry of Finance has been out to say that you have to be careful about the demographic trait and how to interpret it. I simply do not recognise that one can always say to one that one more gives the same price. We are therefore saying that all development and innovation, everything in the public sector, must stand still, and I do not think that should be the case. I simply think we should be something more ambitious, and I will not just fill it, it is 69 billion. kr. in the demographic trait.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160458	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160500	I fully agree that we cannot leave it alone. We also need innovation and the development of the public sector, and of course there are plenty of places where things can certainly be made smarter. However, by 2025 it will still be 8.5 billion. kr., we talk about when we talk about the demographic move, that is, if you keep the money going, there must be 8.5 billion. kr. more than there is today. However, it is a great deal to have to find in a short time through innovation and work in new ways, so the consequence will surely be if we do not keep up with the money, so there is as much money as there is today, per year. citizen of the care of the elderly, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen said in his speech that the quality of everything else will be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160537	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160537-2	But we have not said at any time that there is no money to keep up. We've just said that we don't want to fill the demographic trait. There's a difference between whether you want to pay you or whether you want to give it something out of the way. In relation to this whole discussion, I feel a little bit that this welfare law is just a consumer law; it is for me. It is only a law that says something about how much money we need, not about quality, not about what kind of society we want, and not about what kind of care we need to be provided, and that is where I think the welfare law is going to fail, because it has to be about quality and not just about measuring how much money we spend.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160609	Then it's Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160611	Thank you. Conservatives' website states that Conservatives want an ambitious climate component for 2025. At the same time, Conservatives have also criticised the government's agreement with SF, Radicals and Enhedslisten on a sub-target of 50-54 per cent. Now we are about to vote on this in the autumn, so where is Conservatives now? Conservatives will vote for the 50-54 per cent milestone.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160641	It will come out when we deal with the matter in this Chamber very soon. I'm just reminding you of the history of this case. The Climate Minister writes on Twitter on 7 May that now he calls the support parties to conclude an agreement, and the government believes it should be 46-50 percent. He wrote that on Twitter, and then you came out with a deal where it was 50-54 percent. I think it is deeply provocative that the parties that have made an agreement on the Climate Act are not even invited to conclude that agreement, but just get it presented. We have then asked: can we then see any evidence that we can actually make it? Because we must set ambitious climate targets, that is something we cannot discuss at all. We do, but I think that the parties that enter into an agreement should be invited in at least. We will, of course, look at it and we will of course ask whether we can get the documentation now that the support parties, together with the Minister, have just as clearly indicated that they have done so. Then we'll look forward to seeing it. We would like to adopt ambitious targets and we would like to do so on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160739	Anne Paulin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160740	That is not a very clear answer, but it may be that I can, on the other hand, get a clear answer to the next question, which is: what are two or three concrete Conservative climate initiatives that can really battle, and which are conservative climate policy, in addition to a green tax reform that we are already working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160803	There's 30 seconds of speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160804	Thank you. Yeah, I got 30 seconds. May I just say, before we come to the second, that it was not an unclear answer I gave just now. I said very clearly that we have ambitions in this area. I'm not saying we don't want to be with them with the 50-54 percent. I'm just saying that the shoving of parties so as not to be part of an agreement that you're not invited into, I actually think that's something weird. After all, we have said on several occasions that we are ready to agree on binding targets, that we are ready to invest in the green transition. Well, we're on this agenda. I think we have been clear and visible. I think it has to be said, with all due respect, that we made our vote clear in the Agriculture Agreement we have just adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160839	Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160840	Thank you. I just want to follow up on my colleague's question here. What do the Conservatives want to be two or three tough climate targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160856	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160856-2	For example: We were the first bourgeois party to say: our policy is to achieve a 70-percent objective. That is what the Conservative People's Party said. The Conservative People's Party was also the party that was first included in the very first Climate Law that was made. Then we have also said that we will invest massively in the green transition. We have said that more needs to be spent on research, because that is the way to ensure the green transition. In the agricultural sector as a whole, we made a proposal. So we have put forward a lot of policy in relation to the green transition, and fortunately we can gather together on that. I don't hear any conflict in this. I am simply delighted that this is one of the things we share.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160938	Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160940	Thank you so much. I'm also glad you're part of an agreement, but can Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen mention two or three proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007160949-2	I do not know, but is it the socialist economic policy spinner that has decided to ask the same question? Then I'll try to answer it again. We had a proposal for a 70-per cent target; we have advocated a major green conversion and to invest massively in research; we have made proposals in the field of agriculture; we have made proposals in the field of waste; we have made proposals in the field of energy. Now the questioner's party colleagues referred to our website and many other places. I should like to send a list to the Social Democratic Party, with the great interest there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161027	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161029	Thank you. And thank you to the Conservative People's Party's rapporteur, who has joined the Older People's Party. We are very happy about that in the Danish People's Party. I'd like to follow up on that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also asked about this draft law on the elderly, which we put forward precisely in relation to the rock map scheme. Was it a clear and clear yes that the Conservative People's Party would like to participate in the legislation, that the elderly have the right to have the rock card system? Because we can see that there are huge savings in this out here in the municipalities, where many have opted out of the rock map scheme. I think the answer was not so clear. So if we can just confirm that the Conservatives would like to participate in the legislation, that would be fantastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161122	Yeah, well, in the older game we brought in last week or last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161131	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161132	Yes, but what I'm asking is that we get it written into the legislation Dansk Folkeparti made this proposal for an old people's law, among other things. because the elderly should be entitled to the rock card scheme. I do not think that the rapporteur for the Conservatives has answered that clearly enough, because it only requires a loud and clear 'yes' for that to be done. In relation to the second part on free elections and welfare agreements, the rapporteur is quite right in saying that it reduced the opportunities for the elderly; that is to say, it reduced the opportunities for the elderly to appoint their own helpers and all these things. But I would like to know whether you want to be a part of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161208	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161211	I think we should be careful that we don't talk past each other. If we are talking about the draft law on the elderly, which we voted against, Mrs Adsbøl, among others. Because it was part of the proposal that there should be minimum standards, and we are simply not in favour of that. As I also said to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Let us then sit down and find a number of suggestions in the area of older people where we can meet each other. Because I hear that we are in complete agreement on the cutting-card system, if that is what is being asked for. We need to ensure, when we make the rock map scheme, that it is carried to the pointy end so that it is not just taken over the frame and abolished for the elderly afterwards. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161249	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161250	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen started out by saying that we lack labour in Denmark and that is true in a way. We do. After all, we also have 100,000 unemployed; we have 18,000 over 55 years of age who really want a job and who are used to going to work, but have difficulty finding a • perhaps because of their age. And we have between 10,000 and 16,000 young people who need an internship to complete their education and become workers. In addition, we have 15 million unemployed Europeans, for whom we do not need to spend money or anything else, but who can come to Denmark as it stands today. I have not yet received a good answer as to why, among the 15 million Europeans who lack a job, that labour cannot be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161356	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161357	Well, I don't know, and I just don't understand that we think it's okay. In other words, if it is just one of the 15 million unemployed EU citizens, it is quite fine to come because it is a matter of free movement of labour. If there is not a plumber from Spain who wants to look for a job in Denmark, why is it so terrible for the trade union movement and the whole left that there will be a plumber from Ukraine looking for the same job for the same salary? That's what I don't understand. Well, I just feel like Italians and Spaniards can just come here and take the jobs if they can. But if they don't seek, we just have to say that it's too bad, and then we have to lose wealth and welfare every day in this country. Surely we have a common interest in getting richer as a country. Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen will spend more money on the public sector than I do, and the prerequisite for that is that the money will be made in our companies. So the proposal we are making should be embraced.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161451	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161453	But that is simply not an answer. Well, I'm told there isn't a plumber in Europe that's what Søren Pape Poulsen says. In other words, there are 15 million people in Europe who do not have a plumber. I just don't understand. We do not agree that we should get richer in the way Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen thinks, for Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is interested that there are some employers who can print the salary we are not. The rapporteur may laugh, but when we have an amount limit, it is to ensure that people from some of the poorest countries in the world cannot be exploited as cheap labour. That's why we have an amount limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161535	Here you go, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161536	Yes, and that is the limit we propose reduced to DKK 360,000. Apparently, you are very, very wealthy in SF when you think that 360,000 DKK. is a pressured salary on the starvation line or whatever it is. Well, isn't there a plumber among the 15 million? Yeah, I think there are a lot of plumbers. But I'm just saying that I don't understand that a plumber from Spain is not a problem, but that a plumber from Ukraine is a huge problem. I just don't understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161607	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161610	Thank you. I'd like to thank you very much, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen to pull up the clear lines, among others. in relation to the previous rapporteur, and to show that there is a marked difference between Enhedslisten and Conservatives. 'Cause I didn't hear sir. Søren Pape Poulsen say that the inequality was not so significant that it increased a little bit was not so significant? Well, that naturally puzzled me somewhat in the light of the very sharp increase in inequality that has taken place over the last 30 years. I have to say that, in view of the sharp rise in inequality that has occurred over the last 30 years, the Enhedslisten has put forward an issue of inequality and I have to promise that the Conservatives were responding to this proposal, and it was about proposing that we should have a slight increase in progressive taxation in relation to higher incomes. Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, that it is quite unreasonable that those with the highest incomes pay more taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161718	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161719	Well, the ones with the highest incomes are certainly paying a lot of tax today. I hope we agree on that and I completely disagree with the Enhedslisten. I do not think that inequality is a problem in Denmark at all. I believe that inequality can but to say that Denmark as the seventh most equal country should have a problem, I simply do not agree with it. I know that Mrs Jette Gottlieb will probably not be able to support tomorrow, and there is no majority for that in here and then we went from the seventh to the eighth most equal country. Don't make scare pictures of inequality in Denmark. Inequality is not a real problem in Denmark. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161816	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161817	Well, I am a little puzzled because if I am listening now, I simply hear the Conservative rapporteur say that we lived in a disastrous society under Poul Schlüter. That's how I understood it, because under Poul Schlüter the marginal tax for the richest 73 percent was, and we don't even go that far. We go up and say that a couple and sixty percent would be reasonable for the very highest incomes. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen puts a deep distance from the way our tax system was made in Poul Schlüter's time. Does that make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161854	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161855	I think there was a reason why Poul Schlüter abolished the property tax. I think there was a reason for that, and it was probably because he thought it was wrong. We must also say, to put it mildly, that we had a completely different society. We had a somewhat smaller public sector in Poul Schlüter's time than we do today. So there was much better in Poul Schlüter's time. I fully agree with Mrs Jette Gottlieb on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161918	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007161920	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very good speech from the Conservatives, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen about these foreign warriors who have come to Denmark. It is a major topic of debate, and many Danes care about it. The Conservatives have helped create this foundation, this task force to ensure that the people in question came to Denmark, and we were, to put it mildly, dissatisfied in the Danish People's Party, i.e. that the Conservatives and the Left were involved in it. But the race has run, you can say, and now there are three mothers from the Islamic State and these 14 children and are actually in Denmark right now, and I would like to ask the Conservatives: is this the end now, so can we count on and can we get a guarantee that the Conservatives will not agree that there will be more warriors from the Islamic State or their children to Denmark? Can we have that guarantee today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162017	I think it is important if someone is sitting there and coming with us, just as quietly to say that we were on the basis that we were supposed to examine how this was supposed to be, but we were not in favour of the mothers going home. We weren't part of that deal. We have said openly and honestly all the time that the Danish citizens, who are children, thought we should go home. Children are not guilty of the actions of their parents. But we didn't think the mothers were going home. They've come now. A majority in the Folketing has said that, and I think that is a pity. I remember the arguments: that mothers and children should not be separated. Well, it's happened now. Well, now they're being charged, and then we'll see. It is up to the courts to decide this, but at least they are charged with a paragraph, so if they are found guilty, they will be in prison for a long time, and then they will be separated anyway. And now I assume that the municipalities are going to start looking at whether there is a basis for preserving custody of children that has been treated in this way. So, children who are Danish citizens, I acknowledge that we have said that we should go home, but not the mothers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162122	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162123	So that really means that the answer is no to the question I had whether there could be a guarantee. For what the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Radical and the Socialist People's Party have had the government forced to do is to take these 14 children and three mothers from the Islamic State home and, as I understand it, we would like to have another five here. And let me just say in parentheses that with children there can also be family followers; there can be family reunification later, etc. etc. So I ask again: does this mean that the Conservatives will accept that more children are coming to Denmark as part of this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162204	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162205	Now I might as well be honest to say that now I'm gonna be a little answer guilty. The children we are talking about may be Danish citizens, but if their mothers have lost Danish citizenship, I think that the children should be with their mother. That is the argument that has been put forward all along. But then we just said that if we were going to do something in the three cases of those who have come home now, it was the children we were going to help. It was the kids we were supposed to go home, but the adults weren't going. They have simply disqualified themselves from coming to Denmark. So we don't need any more adults here, and we don't need any family together. It's the kids we need to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162241	The last brief remark goes to Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162243	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rose to Enhedslisten. We are delighted at home at the living room table when the family is together. The money must be earned before it can be used, says the bourgeois always, that is to say some ridiculous course, because of course they must. I can't buy anything down there unless I have a good bank. But you forget one thing: the money is earned, but they are also distributed again. This year there are 7,800 Danes who have become dollar millionaires. Have they been because of hard work, sweat on their foreheads or diligence, or because of riskyness? No, they're not. They have been because the central banks have conducted a monetary policy during the Corona crisis, where money has just poured into the pockets of the richest. That is what is called work-free income. Other people's money is in their pockets, some kind of cash aid for the richest in the country. Why do the bourgeois never talk about these people's ability to contribute more to society?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162345-2	After all, we basically believe that people contribute by, among other things. To pay taxes, and people do. And if you make a lot of money, you pay a lot of taxes, everything else equal. In fact, we feel that the fact that a few people make a lot of money or become millionaires does not affect anyone. I don't feel sorry for that. I think we should have a society where more families are allowed to keep some more of their own money themselves. Then we have to help those who need help instead of handing out to the big middle class so that we can all get the heist. That's what I think a society should be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162427	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162428	Well, if we take an ordinary bourgeois economic theory, somebody's gonna make the money. That value must be created before it can be distributed to anyone. These people haven't created money themselves. Anders Holch Povlsen from Bestseller has got 20 billion. kr. More in fortune while sitting on his chair. He didn't even sweat it. That is, others have made that money and put it in his pocket. He doesn't pay as much in taxes as I do. Therefore, I would like to ask once again why you are keeping your hands on the richest in this society instead of saying that, of course, we need to share the bill fairly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162506	Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162507	I think that we should be very, very grateful now that Holch Povlsen is mentioned and also grateful for others in this society who have formed and built companies that have given so many Danes a job to go on every day so that they can pay taxes so that we can have a welfare society. It is amazing that we have those who have the creative urge that have the will that puts everything at risk to ensure that we can live in a very good society. I think we should thank them for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162535	Time's up, and we're grateful to Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007162617	Thank you. Like so many other second - generation immigrants, I grew up with domestic violence. That's what a young man said to me when I met him last week. He is not one of the city's best children; he is a former gang member and now in an exit program after having endured a prison sentence for some of the crimes he has committed. Family violence had been part of everyday life. He was beaten, both by his parents and by his older siblings. No one had intervened, no one reacted; one looked away, one let it pass. It makes me angry both that violence thrives, but also that society, the state and the municipalities accept it. Because that's how it is. Too many immigrants from Muslim countries raise their children with violence. We know the numbers. We can see the consequences in society and yet too many turn a blind eye. Let me quote: FIVE CHILDREN ON THE ROCK AND A DANGER OF A KELL/ FLOW LIMITATION AND A FEED OF PIS/ WE STANDS IF A HAND FOR THE FUTURE/ FOR THE EXERCISE OF COMPETITIVENESS/ THE LIGHTING WHEN THE FRAMEWORKS/ SASTERS HOPE SO FEED/ FROM THE ONE FOOT TO THE OTHER/ PISSET IS A WATER FALL DOWN WITH HER BEN/ BEFORE THE ONE HAND AS THE OTHER/ WHEN THE SAID WILL MAKE A WRITING OF A TAL 30 OR 40 TO TIMES 50/ AND A LAST LAG IN THE ROAD WAY OUT DOOR. That's how Yahya Hassan wrote in 2013. The whole cultural radical parnas fell on the tail over his debut collection. More than 120,000 copies were sold. But did Yahya Hassan's tough poems get politicians to solve the problem? Have politicians consistently committed punishment and expulsion against foreigners who abuse their children? Have they done this to prevent this violence from taking root? And have they stopped the influx of people from a culture of violence that spreads in parallel societies? No, they haven't. Every fifth boy in the immigrant environment tells the Children's Council about violence with flat hands, tied hands or kicks as part of their upbringing • every fifth boy. Violence permeates Muslim parallel societies. And when the children are brought up with violence, violence is passed on to the next generation and into society, where it hits us all rough assaults on young people in the nightlife, unspoken Danes who are beaten down by immigrants in flock, and shots in the street from dark BMWs who in the lease luxury for black money cruises through the ghetto. Social workers, educators, municipal street planners and all other people in the welfare state army wrinkle their hands and have no idea of their living advice. Billions of good tax dollars poured over failed integration projects. And left-wing politicians repeat chanting that increasing inequality and social deroute must be remedied with more money and higher benefits. From the left, the answer is always more money and higher benefits... not a word about culture, values and personal responsibility. The prisons make up to the edge. The prisoners today live in broom closets and sleep in layers because the children of immigrants are judged over and over again. Is that picture I'm describing true? Is that what we stand in our hands 20 years after Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard formed couples in 2001 to make up for the alien politics of previous decades written by Radical Left and Social Democracy? Yes, it is. The guard parade of patch solutions has not solved the problems at most delayed the Swedish conditions. Unfortunately, there are many denyers in this Chamber who, in line with their custom, will maintain: Das schaffen wir. But then look at the numbers. Non-Western immigrants and descendants together account for just under 9%. of the population, but 25%. of all registered gang members in the police intelligence database are non-Western descendants. Twenty-nine per cent. of the cases of the juvenile delinquency board is about the children of immigrants. Non-Western immigrants and descendants account for 45%. of the raped. And a total of 94%. of convicted gang members have immigrant backgrounds. These are horrifying figures that speak their own clear language. With migration from Muslim countries, the Islamic culture of violence follows. It is devastating for our safe and free society, and it is expensive for dogs. If you originate in a nonwestern country, you provide on average per year. years of life absolutely nothing to public finances, quite the contrary. The average citizen with a non-Western background is a huge expense. The net contribution is minus DKK 31,000. per year for persons originating in a non-Western country. By way of comparison, those who originate in a Western country contribute DKK 20,000. a year after the withdrawal of the public service. That is the reality of foreign policy. When we in New Citizens say that foreign policy must be solved from scratch, it is because of these facts and a whole lot of other facts that clearly point in the same direction • facts that represent a gloomy picture of Denmark's future, if the politicians do not get their act together and act on the knowledge we have. New Citizens are founded with one very explicit purpose • we will save Denmark. We want to change the gloomy picture of Denmark's future with a bright and promising picture. Nothing else is more important. Denmark does not suffer because of climate change. We can adapt to climate change, and we do. Denmark does not go under, even though taxes are too high and the rules are too many. It makes us poorer, but it's to make things right. But if we do not solve immigration policy from scratch, the free and secure society that we love and love will perish, and that is irreversible. And we don't have all the time in the world. It's urgent. From 1980 to 2020, non-western immigrants and descendants, as well as children of non-western descendants, have accounted for almost 70%. of total population growth in Denmark. Danes have only accounted for 3%. of population growth during the same period. And, no, of course, not all immigrants and descendants of Muslim countries actively oppose our freedom and community, but too many do. And if we allow that development to continue, the damage to Danish society will grow year by year, and we end up in a situation where there is no way out of the problems. The politicians who are sitting in this Chamber today may not think that that is their responsibility. The next generation will have to deal with that. And those who sit with the left may even look forward to a future where the popular community based on Danish values disappears like sand between our fingers. I cannot ignore the fact that there is a significant proportion of politicians here in the Folketing who are willing to sacrifice almost everything to maintain their dream of a multicultural society in which Islamic values are equated with democracy, Christianity and the rule of the people. It is a naive dream, and the political ideas behind it are dangerous for our freedom and our community. Saving Denmark is a political battle. Saving Denmark is a bourgeois cultural struggle for Danish values, democracy and the rule of the people against a left who doesn't give a damn about what they've rounded up. That is why we in the New Citizen insist on our demand for a future civil prime minister candidate: undo the immigration policy from scratch; introduce a new asylum system; make sure that foreigners staying in the country support themselves; and exhibit criminal aliens consistently and after the first sentence. We must not accept that the Islamic culture of violence is taking root and spreading in our society. We have to save Denmark. That is what we are elected to do. To look after our country, the freedom of the Danes and our Danish values is and will remain a bourgeois cultural struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163602	Thank you. Let me say that it is the case that one can of course quote from here, and then one has to quote correctly, and that is the way it is. This then means that a saying can be quoted from the platform where language would otherwise not be recognised. Therefore, we also need to be careful about quotes. We shall begin the debate. It's first, sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163622	Thank you so much. I think it is essential that, when we are here in an opening debate, we also deal with economic policy a little bit. I have heard different views from the bourgeois parties, including New Citizens, and I am a little interested in hearing how ultimate New Citizens are, in relation to whether spending should increase in the public sector. In other words, I would like to ask New Citizens quite clearly and directly: can New Citizens support a Prime Minister if the Prime Minister wants to increase public sector spending?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163701	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is bad for Denmark, for every country, if you have too high taxes and taxes because it makes the country poorer. But that's something you can change. It can be changed. You can fix it. That is why people must be asked to vote for real civil parties if there is a majority in favour of a distribution policy that is destructive to our societies. It is not an ultimate requirement for us that public expenditure does not increase. But we have a clear expectation that, if you call yourself a citizen, you will also have control over the money. I heard earlier today that this was one of the things that the person who has so far declared himself a civil Prime Minister's candidate was criticized for by the Social Democracy, that is, the questioner's own party, namely that if there is to be increased welfare costs, the money must be taken care of, so that there is also an increase in prosperity in our society. Of course, we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163804	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163805	Hopefully, a few more years will pass before a bourgeois majority in Denmark arrives. But let us assume that it will come at some point, and then there are many civil party leaders... you can sense that there are more suitors to the Prime Minister's office. Now I understand that New Citizens will not make ultimate demands, but is that something you want to emphasise when you point to the person, that is to say that he thinks that public expenditure should not increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163827-2	We have said from the outset that the most important thing for us is to resolve immigration policy from the bottom up. I also think that I make that quite clear in my rapporteur's speech, and when it is so important to us, it is because the damage done to our society is irreversible. If we do not solve immigration policy from the bottom up, if we continue with these patch solutions, where we move towards ever worse conditions and do not reverse developments, then the damage is irreversible. That is why it is indispensable for us. But we clearly have an expectation, as I said before, that if you call yourself a citizen, you also have and accept responsibility for the economic growth and prosperity of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163904	Then it's Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163905	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. And also thank you for pointing out this pronounced violence that exists in some of these environments. I recognise the image of violence and, as a left-wing person, I would also like to confirm that violence can be a legitimate means of communication in some environments, and so I would also like to confirm that it can be cultural. When the rapporteur then tells of the violence and quotes Yahya Hassan's poems, one cannot help but be deeply touched. At any rate, I was very, very touched and therefore I am a little curious to hear how the rapporteur will then help these children away from violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163956	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007163957	First of all, we must not import a culture of violence, which is just like the first start, because this is horrible for the children who grow up with it. However, the spiral of violence that is developing in our societies, where children who are subjected to violence also become violent as young people, commit crime and thereby spread fear in our societies to the detriment of other young people, is also horrifying. In relation to the individual family we are pretty clear in the spit: If you are a foreign citizen and if you commit crime, you must get out. And if you mistreat and neglect your child, I hope that our authorities will say "and it will always be an authority assessment" that you are then not suitable as parents. If there is one parent who does this, then he must go out, and then the other parent may think: it was good that we got rid of him, we stay here, now we have peace and quiet. It may also be that the other parent thinks: I'd rather be with him, and then I'll take the kids with me. And I'm afraid that's the way it is. But I simply cannot stand idly by while children grow up with consistent beatings and we do nothing about this, and the only thing they respect is expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164111	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164112	Yes, it may be a strong signal, but how does it help the children? The fact that the parents are deported and the children go along and get beaten up in another country where we can do nothing at all to help them is not the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164130	This problem cannot be solved without it having a battle side, if you can put it that way. And I would much rather, and it may sound a little cynical, that one or the five or the ten families who, after we have consistently taken action against this, are being hit by it, are going to be in a worse situation than they are today, when after all they are still allowed to beat up their children. Now it is just going to be in another country and that we will then secure the large, broad circle. I mean, we talk every five immigrant boys, and if we can save 20 boys by one seeing his parents being expelled consistently, isn't that worth it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164212	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164213	When we opened Parliament on Tuesday, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that there was no reason to celebrate our democracy. So I just want to ask: is the position of the New Citizens' Party that there is nothing to celebrate about Danish democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164233	Now I haven't read Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's announcement, but I could imagine that it is a little bit about having a period when we are going into a search commission around the whole minkskandalen, an illegal closure of a profession. And again I haven't read the poster, so I'm not sure that's what's referred to. We are also in a situation where we have a Prime Minister who stood on the floor and spoke about the importance of having a democratic conversation and that we are not left to the tech giants to manage the democratic conversation, but that we strengthen Danish media. And what happens shortly after that? The Prime Minister dodges the Danish media and communicates on social media. So there is such a thing, what to say, some basic conditions, where you may well walk and pretend to each other, and that everything is good, but if you scrape a little bit of the varnish, there are real challenges, and I think in particular that the minkskandal is extreme. The fact that you can close an entire profession without a legal basis is beyond my comprehension.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164341	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164342	But just basically: what is the rapporteur's position? Is there any reason to celebrate Danish democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164353	I would like to celebrate Danish democracy when there is reason to do so. I myself think that the opening of the Danish Parliament is a party day, but I admit that on such a party day, when we are now going into a week with a committee of inquiry, it is a bit like a heavy cloud over the people's regime. And this is especially true of the many mink growers who have still not clarified their situation, that is to say who are sitting out there and who have actually been, perhaps not threatened with it, but where there have been police, defence, military, out by their property and have told them that now they should help put their animals to death. Then it turned out that it was just a recommendation. I think that is a powerful method in a democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164435	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164438	Thank you. New Citizen's website says about climate policy: New Citizen's climate policy is based on reason, scientificity and realism... Today, the approach is too much based on emotion. Then it goes on to say: "New Citizens find that there has been global warming over the past 150 years. The man-made CO2 How much this influence has been, scientists do not agree. However, there is now a new report from the United Nations, the IPCC report, in which it is outlined that we have seen that global mean temperature has increased by about 1.09 degrees Celsius, of which the human influence is responsible for about 1.07 degrees. So it is the world's scientists who have so summarized, with the knowledge we now have, that the man-made temperature rise is thus responsible for 1.07 degrees, and then there are 0,02 degrees which have other causes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164541	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164543	What was the question? Can I have the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164546	So one minute is available, and I stand up when the time is well exceeded; and so one has to cut down on the quotations. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164556	I suppose the question may be something like: when the UN concludes something, does it not mean that all scientists agree? Now the rapporteur is allowed to nod, since the rapporteur is not allowed to say anything again. Is it correct to understand that that was the question? No, of course that does not mean that all scientists agree. Well, there are plenty of areas where scientists do not agree. Therefore, one can do meta-study, which is why one can conclude on some studies, but to say that the researchers agree because there is research that points towards something is not the same. That is my answer, if that is the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164634	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164637	It also says on the website that the Climate Act is hot air, and New Citizens are not included in the Climate Act and the further work there. I'm just wondering when we're chasing this 20 million. t CO2 t, i.e. if it's the case that this climate law is just hot air and we don't have to take these climate impacts so seriously. Why is it that New Citizens are helping to impose such a requirement on agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164710	We are to save Danish agriculture, in order to save the many jobs that are in the accompanying industries, which were, of course, ready to go out of the country with the initiative that was from the government, with the support, as I understood it, of the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. It was up to 15,000 Danish jobs that risked getting out of the country with the proposal last week, it must be when we were almost done with the negotiations. Thank God it succeeded, and it did, because the bourgeois parties were good at standing together. We had rapporteurs who were deep down in matter here. We stood together, we fought until the last drop of blood, and we managed to make very massive concessions last hour on Sunday night, or was it Monday?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164755	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164759	Thank you. I would like to talk about the three indispensable demands from New Citizens to a Blue Prime Minister. This whole thing with the ultimate requirement is interesting because it's something we have experience with in the Liberal Alliance. So I think it's an exciting subject. After all, Mrs Pernille Vermund gave an excellent interview to Joachim B. Olsen some time ago, when Mrs Pernille Vermund stated that the three indispensable requirements for a blue prime minister are not ultimate but indispensable requirements. And there I got a little confused. I was pleased that it was not ultimate, it was good, but I simply need to clarify what the difference is between ultimate requirements and mandatory requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164837	We have called them indispensable from the beginning, and that is because they are demands that we do not shy away from. These are promises to our constituents. Those who want to vote for New Citizens can count on us not to shrink from this. If you speak the ultimate demands, then it speaks from my perspective and it can be seen differently; it is communication, so it can be perceived differently by others into such a real negotiating situation, where we say that if you do not do so, so and so. There we have just said that this is the prerequisite for pointing out a civil Prime Minister's candidate, that is to say that we can actually be sure that this is the key to reversing developments, is something that will be taken into account in the work of a bourgeois government; that we want to take the lead in taking it as part of our own policy, namely that we need a new asylum system, that criminal foreigners should be expelled consistently and after the first sentence, and that foreigners in Denmark should support themselves. So when I say indestructible, it's because we don't shy away from it. Then it may also be that when you are in negotiating situations, it becomes ultimate. But right now it is inevitable in relation to the Danes who will vote for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164946	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007164949	Well, by the way, these are three excellent demands, so it is not because I do not support them. But I can be concerned whether it will be so ultimate that we will end up giving government power to the current Prime Minister. But just to be absolutely sure that I have understood it correctly: these are indispensable requirements for pointing to a Blue Prime Minister, and when we then have to negotiate a government basis, they become ultimate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165009-2	If you want our mandates, that is to say if you come to New Citizens and say that if you do not want to support me as Prime Minister candidate, then it is still indispensable. And then he has to say, "Well, what does it take for you to point at me?" And then we say: well, there needs to be a new asylum system with a stop to spontaneous asylum; we need to ensure that criminal foreigners are deported consistently and after the first sentence.; and we must ensure that foreigners in Denmark support themselves. Then you could call it ultimate. It doesn't matter to me. I have just said from the beginning that it is inevitable, because that is what I am not going to turn away from in relation to the promises I make to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165047	Say it, sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165048	It is an absolute requirement on our part that international laws and conventions should be observed, and that is why we have the right to seek asylum if we believe that we need it. So there is certainly a clash there which also goes into the second discussion. I have noticed that more and more people are taking the stand and taking Christianity vainly. This is interesting, especially if you can get a little information about what Christianity is then, people subscribe to. Couldn't Mrs Pernille Vermund show a little of her Christian outlook when it is so important for Mrs Pernille Vermund to mention Christianity from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165140	When I speak of Christianity, it is the Christian values upon which our society rests, that is, our Christian culture, which, after all, lies in incredibly much of what we do. It is a Christian culture, including Protestant culture, which is different from what we see when we come down to southern Europe. So for me, it's about such cultural values. How much the individual believes and how believer the individual is and how Christian the individual is, must be up to the individual Dane; we do not interfere in political matters. But the fact that we are a Christian country rounded up by Christian values is just part of our history, and that is one of the things that has given us the free life that we have today, and the society that we have today, in which we accept that, although we have a religion, we believe in it, and that is also in Christianity, we also have a legal system, a democratic system, which lies next door, and which is not linked to religion, as opposed to Islam, for example, which is both law and religion. So for me, it is not about what I believe and think, and that it should be imposed on everyone else; it is about the values of our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165250	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165251	That is absolutely right, and I fully agree that we have Luther's two regiments, the church and the god his, and the ruler his, i.e. those of us who have the monopoly of violence, the sword in their hands, etc. That's fine; that's what we're living on. But there are also some basic values that can be taken from the New Testament, a law that trumps everything, namely, the Sermon on the Mount, with the double message of love that you must love your god, and you must love your neighbor as yourself. Is it some values that win the reverberation of Mrs Pernille Vermund?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165330	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165331	Yes, it is. But I am not sure that a former radical, now Christian Democrat, has the same view as I am of who almost is. To me, my neighbor in the first place is my family, then it's my friends and those I have close to me, and finally it's my people. That way, I'm moving outwards. For me, my neighbor would never be someone who lived very, very far away and for whom I'm not next. In fact, it is a bit like talking about this: we have to show solidarity with people in the world, people who would never show solidarity with us. That is hardly the way it works, nor is solidarity built up; it is mutual.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165415	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165417	Thank you. I do not think that Mrs Pernille Vermund should take that with the ultimate and inevitably so heavy. I just think she's actually gonna be in great company. I remember having a debate on dual citizenship with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen back in, I think it was 2013, where I blamed him for changing his mind. And then he said that he had not changed his mind, he had only changed his position. And that's how it can be hard sometimes to juggle those words. Well, now to a political question, and of course it is about economic policy, as Mrs Pernille Vermund can almost imagine. The early retirement will have to be phased out according to the New Citizens' programme, and I just think that the 300,000-400,000 Danes who are still away paying for the early retirement scheme have an interest in knowing how quickly you save the 5-6 billion. kr. By phasing out the post-retirement wage, as proposed. When will the 300 000 400 000 who are currently paying for their early retirement expect if the new citizens are given power which they have thought they are no longer entitled to be able to pay for the three years of early retirement to which they are actually paying for today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165515	Well, if it is up to New Citizens and not least in the situation that we have now, when we lack labour, you will not be paying people of working age who, by the way, are doing nothing wrong in order to leave the labour market earlier. Well, I think that's perfectly logical. It is clear that if you are worn out or ill, you must have a helping hand, but even getting a bonus for leaving the labour market when you can actually work well, it seems crazy. It is clear, then, that the money you have paid yourself must of course be returned to you, and you must have certainty as soon as possible; but I therefore believe that we have a responsibility when we have companies that are standing and crying out for labour, to ensure that the economic growth and prosperity that is needed for us to be able to afford high-level welfare and for our future generations to live good and free lives are built up now. We shouldn't just close our eyes to that. And in relation to the ultimate and absolute, we have from the beginning called the absolute, but it is not important to me whether it is called the ultimate or absolute requirement. I'm just using the word intrusive, and we've always done that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165620	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165621	Yeah, yeah. And attitude and position, and that's how you juggle. Listen, it's not like I'm blaming New Citizens for having that policy. There may be all kinds of reasons why one has chosen to have the policy of phasing out the post-retirement wage. I am merely saying that there are 300,000 400 000 Danes who are now paying up to the scheme in the expectation that they will then have the right to retire three years before the age of retirement. This right will be removed by the New Citizen, that is to say save 51⁄2 billion. kr. by removing that arrangement. So I just ask quietly: a big economic plan has been put forward about what is going to happen, so from when should these Danes imagine that the scheme is gone, so how quickly should it be phased out? Anyone who pays today will be entitled to it, but you cannot re-pay it or how will it be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165705	Thank you. We'll get answers, here we go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165706	Well, that's what I said before, as soon as possible, if it's up to us. So the idea that we have a system in which we pay people is in fact as with the graduating rate a higher benefit to stay away from the labour market. We can see what it has to do with the supply of work. It costs money. Had we been in a recession where there weren't jobs for everyone, it might make some sense, but right now we have companies screaming for labour. After all, we also have some elderly people who expect a perfectly reasonable expectation that when they get sick or when they grow old, there must also be affordable welfare for them. By the way, we have allocated 43 billion. kr. For health and for the elderly, but it is not possible to do so if the money is not made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165748	Then it is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165750	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech. New citizens have presented an economic plan, and it says among other things. In this respect, the idea of abolishing 100,000 public posts. We know that New Citizens are flirting a little with perhaps backing up a bourgeois government and now I have to put the question right so that we do not have a fight for words: how much cuts of public sector employees will New Citizens make as indispensable demands to join a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165820	We do not have an absolute requirement for the number of posts to be removed in the public sector. Right now we have a government, a social democratic government, which says that 50 000 more people must be employed in the public sector until 2035. I believe that most people in this House are in favour of the fact that the full-time jobs in the public sector cannot also be full-time jobs in the private sector, so this is about people who are said not to work in the private sector, but instead have to work in the public sector. We want another way, because we say that we need to reduce the public sector so that we release people to those jobs that are not occupied in the private sector. It is quite obvious to me that if the public sector gets too large and seizes too much of the labour we have in society, it will happen at the expense of the private sector. Not only because it is expensive, so you have to collect taxes to finance it, but also because the people employed in the public sector cannot be employed in the private sector as well. Job centers are a good example. There are 13,000 people and we would like to release them for jobs in the private sector very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165928	Mrs. Birgitte Wind, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007165931	In fact, I do not know if that was the answer to my question, but I do not think it was. I know that New Citizens have an economic plan, and when you have an economic plan, you have made some calculations, and it says black and white, that you have to get rid of 100,000 public posts, and at the same time you want to lower registration fees, or you want to get rid of them altogether, and you want to lower taxes on, for example. equity income. Such a plan is connected, because you can't just take out parts, it's connected. Mrs Pernille Vermund must surely be able to give a figure of how many posts need to be lost in order for these things to be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170005	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170006	Well, that's in the plan. We say that up to 2035 is the consequence of prioritising, as we do, and as we have committed ourselves to, removing the greed of 6 billion. kr. We are talking about a public budget of 1 100 billion per year. kr. and public spending of about 500 billion. kr. We will remove the frizz, address the frizz for 6 billion. kr. a year. It is almost nothing out of the big public budget that we have. And the consequence of removing it, for example. closing down job centres is that there are a lot of people who no longer have to work in job centres, because they have to go and have jobs in the private sector where they can do good and good for the rest of us. However, up to 2035 it is 100,000 fewer posts in the public sector and 235,000 more in the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170050	Then we move on to Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170055	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. On the main content of the rapporteur's speech, I can hear that it will be quite difficult to find a bourgeois Prime Minister, but I will add something anyway. I understand, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen highlights the climate and green transition as one of the areas where there is a bourgeois common quantity between the blue parties in the Folketing, and then I just want to hear the rapporteur whether this means that New Citizens are prepared to join the Climate Act and its 70-percent target for reducing greenhouse gases in our environment. Is that the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170142	No, it's not. The community that is among the bourgeois parties when we talk about climate policy... and now I have to be careful what I take Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I mean, it's that we don't get poorer year by year, but we get richer year by year. It is that we still have jobs and companies in Denmark that are developing and that they are not being dismantled. A very specific example is the negotiations we have just held on agriculture, in which the presentation from the government, that is. The Social Democratic Party, which had the support of the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, was a proposal in which the consequence of achieving this 70-percent target was that one was willing to send up to 15,000 Danish jobs out of the country. There was not one bourgeois party that could back it up and thank God for it. There is financial responsibility on the bourgeois side, of which I am glad to be a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170251	Sir. Orla Sea, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170252	It sounds a little hollow, as the current government has created a situation where we have a shortage of labour and where we have the prospect of a huge growth in GDP. But I have to say that new citizens cannot support the line which Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as Prime Minister's candidate will lay down. So that means that New Citizens will not point to a bourgeois Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170318	I guess it was a pretzel ending to get to there. Well, I've never heard sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. And if he does, I know that there are two bourgeois parties that he will find difficult to count on. What we agree on in the blue block is, as I said before, that there must be economic growth and prosperity in Denmark. It is true that we have economic growth right now. You just sometimes forget to tell what's the starting point and what you measure it up against and to measure it up against a corona year is perhaps a little bit fucked up. On the other hand, you've been good at increasing inequality for the last two years. I think we miss a little debate on that, but we can take that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170403	Yes, it will be later, because there are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now thanking Mrs Pernille Vermund. Thank you. And we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007170414	Thank you. I want to talk about something that I have often thought about, a paradox in modern society, indeed, a subject that I have thought about, I would go up to any closing and opening debates I have been to, but there I have always ended up talking about lower taxes and more freedom, welfare on the basis of the citizens and, of course, all the worlds that come from the government. But what I want to talk about today is the growing distrust, stress and anxiety that many young people, even children, suffer from. Fortunately, most people are safe and well, we must also remember that in that debate, but the trend towards distrust among young people is increasing, and it is not just a Danish phenomenon; it is actually something that we see throughout the Western world that youth has more evil in life, and even though we live in a time of very freedom and indestructible opportunities, yes, the opportunities for some seem to have become a burden. And in that debate there is a consensus which I would really like to warn against, namely that young people's dissatisfaction should be due to too many demands, i.e. character requirements and too high a level of professionalism, too many tests. I disagree and, unfortunately, I believe that if we start to eliminate the few concrete and, moreover, reasonable expectations we have for young people, we will make the problem worse in response to the challenges that some of them are experiencing. For we will remove the specific requirements, yes, there will be only the abstract and fleeting demands, and I will come back to them. But before that, I would like to quickly mention that I was at a debate at Aarhus University on this subject a few weeks ago, and Professor Christian Bjørnskov said very precisely that the curriculum has been reduced enormously at the university. The objective professional pressure has probably never been less in the Danish education system. We have in no way, objectively speaking, greater or more demands on young people, yet many of them face historic performance pressures. So what's going on? Yeah, for once, I don't have all the answers there, but as always, I have some offers. I believe that it is very much an expectation of perfect life; that we must be happy and successful at all costs; that the good life is that there is an absence of failure and suffering, and that we just have to realize ourselves and achieve maximum happiness. But it goes without saying that the one hundred percent happy and perfect life is an illusion, that it is an unreasonable expectation to have for others and even worse an unreasonable expectation to have for oneself. For life is not always a dance of roses, sometimes it also offers defeat, and disappointment and grief is actually a suffering, so the expectation that we should be happy and close to perfect, yes, it is an unreasonable requirement, and it is an expectation that makes us more self-absorbed. Unfortunately, I think that we have made the problem worse by telling young people that they can become whatever they want. Most people don't. Most people can be really good at something if they try, and that is also good enough, but they cannot become what they want, nor are they entitled to get what they want. And perhaps we have even made the problem even worse by telling young people that they need to train and work with something they are passionate about. That is a well-intentioned piece of advice, but then the success criterion is no longer that you have to get by and be good at something. No, the success criterion is that you have to burn for what you do, you have to be happy for it, and it's much harder to live up to. It is, of course, well-intentioned advice, but I think a wiser advice and a more humane advice would be to find something that you can be good at and that, moreover, you can find joy and meaning in most things, if you take pains and perseverance. There are parties here in the Folketing who believe that the solution to the growing distrust is to do away with grades, with tests and perhaps also with too many professional demands in the education system. I disagree with that. It is not unreasonable to give them grades, it is not unreasonable to demand that they learn specific skills, nor is it unreasonable to test their skills, just as it is not unreasonable to tell them that they are not skilled enough if they can become more skilled than they are. Unfortunately, we have an education system and a primary school in which the concrete and reasonable demands are being phased out and replaced by the abstract and fleeting demands. Now young people have to solve world goals and climate crisis before they have to be decent and neighborly people. And in this way the primary school has been emptied of meaning, of content and of professionalism. I have previously criticized from the platform the teaching principle, i.e. the responsibility for own learning: that it is the pupils' own responsibility to find out what they do not know and what to learn, and thus it becomes their responsibility if they are professionally behind, and that is the relocation of adults. That is where the true culture of performance lies. So we can actually do something about it politically, a little, at least in relation to the distrust of young people. We can get rid of the latest reform of primary school we've been doing. We can increase the demands on children and young people, that is to say, increase the specific healthy professional requirements, and phase out the flighty and abstract requirements. And then we need to put the formation first in the whole educational system. When many young people today experience well-being challenges, it is also due to a loss of education, and it is a loss of education that we have experienced throughout the Western world, it is not just in Denmark, but it is a loss of education that we have experienced since then, probably since the 68s, with standards and expectations and traditions and to some extent also with authorities. Now it's up to the young people themselves to find out who they are. Don't worry about your roots. Never mind your community and its history. Don't worry about your family. Never mind bourgeois virtues as a guide in life. Don't worry about your sex. Yeah, no matter what's given. You must be freed from it all, you must find your own identity, and by the way, you must be happy on top of the hat. Go ahead. Go ahead. There is a roots that hold you, and there are no ties that bind you, but there is nothing that shows you the way either. I believe that the consequence of this loss of education is that the foundation we face life has become more fragile. And that is why the formation is so crucial, also because it gives an insight into our history and an understanding of it, and it is not to be understood negatively, but an understanding that we are not so special that we are not alone in the things we each deal with, but that people over thousands of years have had ups and downs, yes, the emotions are very much the same today as they once were. But when formation takes up less in primary school, yes, we have removed an important support and inspiration to cope with the adversity of life. And when we become a society with less education, that is, less focus on everything that is bigger than ourselves, with which we can feel connected, we become more self-absorbed, and it is gasoline for excessive perfection culture and probably also disillusionment. But it was the political, the school policy. I would also like to take the liberty of directing a few words directly to the young people who may be watching today or on my Facebook tomorrow. It may be a little more realistic, and I will say to them: give it finally gas, finally set ambitious goals and go after them. My message is not that you should strive for mediocrity, on the contrary, for when you work hard and do your best, then you will have the opportunity to take responsibility for yourselves and make a positive difference to the people around you. It doesn't mean that you have to be perfect, it's no one ever becomes, but bet on becoming something, getting good at something, skilling yourself, for then you can be something for someone, and there's hardly anything more meaningful in life. But this does not mean that one should think that the good or meaningful life alone comes from having a lot of external success. Being ambitious should not be confused with being self-absorbed or navel-seeing. Take it from a self-centered man who has made all the mistakes and spent plenty of time chasing likes and political titles and the recognition of others. It's like eating a cheeseburger, it only saturates briefly, and it's going to hit extra hard when you fail if you hang your well-being up on the external success. On the other hand, there may be a relief in turning your eyes away from yourself. Focus on what's bigger than yourself. Forget yourself, focus on the people around you, immerse yourself in some literature, go and enjoy nature, go to a service. There are many opportunities to forget yourself a little. And then my most important advice to the young people who might see inside www.ft.dk and watch TV from the Folketing: Trust that the future will be good. Don't listen to the doomsday prophets who say that the earth is about to end, that you must be afraid to live on stakes in the future, or that you will have a bad life than your parents. That's bullshit. And do not listen to those who are trying to sacrifice you; who are trying to make me weaker than you are; who say to you that it is all a sin for you, that you may not be able to cope with it, that you are weaker than previous generations, that it is all the politicians' fault, that it is the patriarchate's fault, that it is capitalism's fault. Yeah, you can't actually do anything but sit down and complain and say, "When will someone come and solve my problems?" No one does, and we politicians do not do it at all. So yes, life will at times be full of suffering, of sorrow and defeat, but also of joy, of fellowship, of meaning, of success experiences, and I know that you can manage it if you take responsibility for your lives and do not think that it is always the others' fault. Because in the responsibility lies the meaning. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171416	Thank you. We shall now proceed to brief remarks. First it's Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171429	I might as well say this as it is: thank you for a very good speech, and thank you for a presentation that thrilled. There's a really big part of sir. Alex Vanopslagh's speech, especially in the first part, to which I can nod and which we have also highlighted: Be persistent, do your best, be part of the present community, be committed. That makes me wonder: what is it, sir? Alex Vanopslagh is really leaning on? Because when you look at the right side of the House, in other words the Left, who wants to put more money in public budgets for example. to deal with the demographic trait, then it will mean increased spending for the public sector. And my question is to the LA rapporteur here: will we support the Left's desire for increased public spending if the majority changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171541	May I just clarify and thank you for the nice words, by the way: it is a misunderstanding if you think that community is equal to public expenditure or that community is equal to a large and strong state. Well, community is what we do for each other voluntarily. That is what is in the family; that is what is in the community; that is what is in the workplace. This is the Community that I would particularly like to strengthen, and not the community that comes from legislation or public transfers. I think the question was: will we support a left-wing government, so to speak, if it wants to carry out its welfare promise? In other words, we are going to demand influence for the mandates we have and one of the things on which we want to focus is that we should not just keep pouring money into the public sector unconsciously. But more innovation is needed, more competition is needed and entrepreneurship needs to be unleashed in the public sector so that we can have a Dagmar memory in every eternal city. This is far more important than spending more money, and if we can find a compromise in which we unleash entrepreneurship in the public sector and where the Left can then also be allowed to waste some more money on something public nonsense, then it will be all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171642	Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171644	Thank you. I agree entirely with the rapporteur that community is a great many things. A strong public sector is, after all, one of the things we think is really important. I just want to make it quite clear: so LA supports a left-wing government if you increase public spending?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171702	Well, it is not our policy to increase public spending, and we will work to ensure that we spend less of our citizens' money and that we lower taxes in Denmark. And we will work for that in every debate we enter with the Left, the Conservatives and all the others. So that's our starting point • quite simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171716	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171718	It's so good to see you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh is back in top shape, and I say that both as a colleague and as a friend. Well, then it's nice to see you too, sir. Alex Vanopslagh ends the myth I've seen widely that because you're liberal and you're in favour of freedom, you're pr. automatics against formation, norms and frameworks. It's also nice to see the showdown that because you're a citizen, you'd better be mad. You can also look at the future optimistically, and I think that was a good point in Mr Beazley's report. Alex Vanopslagh's speech. I would like to ask about the part about primary school and the requirements of primary school, because I actually agree with the analysis, even on part of the medicine that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh prescribes in relation to the challenges of our primary school. It is with the more and more clear demands. However, there are also some, especially the boys, who have repeatedly experienced failure to meet some of the demands already made today, perhaps particularly towards the end of a school run. What do you think, sir? Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, that we should do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171825	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171826	Can't I just continue with the demands? Well, I think that the problem is these many thousands of learning goals that are in primary school, where many of the requirements are such competence-based, and that you need to be innovative and communicative and all the other things I have mentioned and where the demands we have to make need to be more professional requirements. Well, what do you have to learn, and what do you have to be able to do? When the professional foundation is in place, yes, then all the creative so to speak comes afterwards probably for most. And then there's the whole question of what we do with the school-tired boys. I don't have a complete tailor-made solution like that. Firstly, I think that it would be good to have very tangible demands which we know when we have met, but in addition there are several parties in this Chamber who have also advocated that we should have more practical subjects in school. There must also be the possibility that I think it was the Prime Minister who mentioned it in his speech that you might get out a day or two a week and work in a company instead of sitting on the school bench and being tired. There is, of course, some movement in Danish school policy which I think is exciting, and I think the answers are in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171923	Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007171923-2	Thank you for your answer. I think that this is the first part of a conversation we are going to have on how, in particular at the end of the primary school course, we might be thinking quite newly in relation to them, as Mr. Alex Vanopslagh called school-tired boys, and perhaps in reality also dares to take the step further than that, sir. Alex Vanopslagh adds up here, and then says: Perhaps the solution is not in the school mattress at all. Maybe it's not even in the classroom. Maybe it's actually somewhere else. Maybe it's with an old-fashioned master. Maybe it's with the family. Is it some thoughts, like Mr. Alex Vanopslagh could be involved in developing further in the conversation we are going to have on how to ensure a better end to primary school for the school-tired boys?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172003	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172004	I just think I'll just reply briefly and say, yes, absolutely. We will continue to talk about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172011	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172015	Thank you so much for your speech. I took special note of the misfortune of children and young people. I think it permeated the whole speech, and I am very excited about it, because I am very concerned about it myself, and we are also concerned about it in the SF. In fact, I believe that perhaps it is time to throw up school policy a little in the air. Because I agree that we need to make specific demands on children, and I think that part of the formation is also the discussion of how you are as a human being. It is not only to make concrete demands, it is also a major social debate in fact to dare to put the child at the centre. Because children have to learn to make mistakes, children have to learn that making mistakes is in order to actually get better at what they're doing. And that is one of the challenges. Just look at the character system in primary school, which is based on you getting a 12, and then we're subtracting by mistake, that is, if you understand what I mean. So I actually think it's time we had the courage to rethink our primary school, and I am glad that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh just mentioned this with the practical subjects. SF has suggested, together with Dansk Industri, that we look at the primary school and try to see if we can do more practical subjects. Is that some of the things we can get started on? Is this something we dare to set free, and can we really do it across? 'Cause now I hear Mr. Morten Dahlin, and I see that the Prime Minister and Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen are perhaps having a conversation in connection with the opening debate of the Danish Parliament. And it's actually a little more beautiful than just asking questions to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172138	The broad embrace was allowed to have a little extra time, I would say. But, yes, here you go, sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172144	Well, I definitely think we can. And, of course, it is exciting with the tendencies that are at least in here purely in school politics. And the same with regard to the character system, and whether one should not return to any a la logic in the 13-scale. In other words, one rewards the extra excellent performance rather than the flawless performance, so to speak. But when we have those discussions about children and young people's distrust, where I have actually had respect for the fact that SF as one of the only parties often talks about it, I sometimes think that rhetoric becomes a bit, that you simply have to remove the demands or tests or have fewer grades. And I can be a little worried about that, because I don't think it's the character race, so to speak, that's the cause of distrust. I think it's more of a symptom of the problems there are. These are some of the few concrete demands that can be addressed, and that is why they are so focused on them. But I think the performance pressure comes from the more abstract and fleeting demands and from the loss of education. And if we just remove the demands, I don't think we'll solve the problem. But maybe that's a different talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172247	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172248	I think that is an interesting conversation, and I know that this is not meant as a conversation, but I will nevertheless allow myself to seize the conversation. Because I think that some of what we need to talk about in relation to primary school will also be how we test. I am not fundamentally opposed to examining what children have of knowledge, but when we see that we have over 86 national tests across and cross the primary school, it may not be the most accurate or measurable instrument. This is not the same as the fact that children cannot be tested on specific knowledge. And I also think we can start to move where the children have something to do with getting smarter and better and skillful. Well, I actually think we can make it a long way, so thank you very much to Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172331	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172332	Well, I'll be in complete doubt if I'm going to talk about lower taxes and more freedom next time, when I get praise from the SF. Maybe I should get back to it. Thank you, however, and I am also looking forward to further negotiations on reform of the school area. It's badly needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172347	Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172351	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh for a really, really good speech. Young people's well-being and education are also something that is of great concern to me and to the Radical Left, so thank you very much for that. In addition, there is something that both the rapporteur and I are very pleased about, namely freedom, which Mr. Mr. Alex Vanopslagh just mentioned. Freedom is quite fundamental to the democracy in which we live: the right to think freely, the right to speak freely. This is crucial for the free debate which, among other things, takes place. form the basis of the political decision-making process that we are part of. And, of course, it is the right to do research freely. Does the rapporteur think that it will give more freedom when more and more researchers, among other things. According to a study from the Danish Magisterforening (Danish Magisterforening), withdraws from the public debate, among other things. because here from Christiansborg there is criticism of specific research areas or even named researchers?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172447	In relation to that discussion: well, what is the problem is, of course, what Mr. Henrik Dahl has called pseudo-research, that is research that does not meet such trivial scientific criteria. And that's the problem. And there it is perfectly legitimate to say politically that it also contributes to the loss of education, that there are research institutions which drive political activism. Is it a problem that they do not dare to interfere in the public debate? Yes, I think that is an unfortunate consequence of that, but the fact that we address it in the Folketing has been necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172519	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172520	Of course, everyone, perhaps we elected representatives in particular, must intervene in the debate, that is clear, and research does live on criticism. That's how good ideas blossom and bad ideas get rid of. It is part of the research and the basic DNA of science. But does the rapporteur think that at Danish universities there is a pronounced problem of poor research, which the existing mechanisms of peer review, the Scientific Integrity Committee, cannot deal with? And does the rapporteur think it would be better to leave it to elected politicians in here at Christiansborg to define what is good and bad research?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172556	No, that's not what's happening either. I am thinking of an article I read in Weekendavisen a few weeks ago, and I almost also think that the rapporteur is also reading Weekendavisen about a researcher in the United States. Unfortunately, I have forgotten his name, but he became known that he wrote a lot of scientific articles, which were nonsense, in the field of gender policy and racial politics. And they were printed! They were peer-reviewed, and it was just something he pulled out of that air or his butt for that matter. And that shows that there is a challenge, and I think it is far more worrying than the self-censorship that is in those environments, that is, than there are some who feel piqued that they are getting a reasonable criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172629	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172631	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for a good speech and, in fact, I would like to continue a little along the same lines: the issue of freedom of expression, because freedom of expression is one of the most important values we have. I think that Mr. Stinus Lindgreen raises something really important in relation to the freedom of expression of researchers, but something that I have thought about is that there are studies that show that there are women and people with minority backgrounds who refrain from taking part in the public debate because they are simply being threatened. This is extremely serious for our freedom of expression. I would really just like to hear the rapporteur, who I know is also very concerned about freedom of expression. I actually have a really nice cup, actually my favorite cup, standing in my office, which I have received from the rapporteur, where there is freedom of expression on the one hand and responsibility on the other hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172729	At the risk of not responding satisfactorily, I would say that, just as we guarantee the freedom of expression of other people, in other words, by persecuting those who commit illegal acts and safeguarding the right to express themselves freely. But here it may be as much a sign of the polarization that is in time. It is not a coincidence that it is ethnic minority women who may get a bucket of shit in their heads if they take part in the public debate. I cannot help but return to this situation of the loss of education that many Western countries have experienced over the past few decades. After all, there have always been common standards and values that have bound a society together and those standards and values are breaking up, and that is why there are the tough fights for identity policy here, including the integration and immigration debate. This makes things more polarized and divisive and unpleasant. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172823	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172824	I very much agree that the polarizing debate frightens many people from taking part in the debate, but it is not only minority women, it is also other women who refrain from running for the city council, the Folketing and the regional elections, and who refrain from taking part in the public debate. The problem is greater than the fact that only minorities do not interfere. However, I agree that the polarisation we have seen in particular in the debate on foreigners helps people to refrain from participating. In fact, I think that one of the things we need to do is look at how we can better protect these people and their freedom of expression. We believe that in the Enhedslisten you can do about that, for example. to extend the racism clause. I am not sure that is the solution one. I would really just like to hear what the Liberal Alliance is thinking about, how we can guarantee the freedom of expression of these people, because it is a democratic problem that women abstain from taking part in the public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007172924	This is how we want to abolish the racism clause altogether. We must also be careful not to criminalise attitudes and views. But, of course, it is a problem that, when you participate in the public debate, you experience being sucked up on social media. I don't know if there's a gender side. I believe that men and women are made less or less of a mess, but the nature of the mess with women is probably of a more rude and perfid nature. And the best advice I can give is not to read it. Personally, I don't even read the commentary tracks for my own listings, because they are usually full of jam and hernia. So my advice is: Don't take it in; don't read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173000	Thank you. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173004	Thank you very much, sir. Alex Vanopslagh for an excellent speech, and how wonderful it is from the bourgeois side to hear that education and young people are being talked about, because we have missed something today. It is also true that there is talk of the confidence that shows that young people can do it themselves and that there are incredibly many opportunities, and also that there is a focus on education. There were many good tactics that were also recognised as conservative, and that is also the fact that it is not society's fault that made me think of an old TV2 song from 1994. But precisely in order to give young people opportunities, what does Mr. Alex Vanopslagh about this with a project about more practice in primary school early, so you get the opportunity to try more subjects and to use those skills so that you can possibly go further on a practical training course or get ready for life and go out and find a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173057	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173058	I think I commented on that earlier when Mr. Morten Dahlin asked a similar question, and we are certainly also positive about it. One should not forget that formation is not only something with its head and to read a lot of books and know its history; formation is also to be able something with its hands. A farmer is incredibly formed because he looks at what is around him and produces food, and it is really formation to be able to do something concrete in that way. So there is clearly a need to create new opportunities in primary school in this area, and perhaps we can even get more people to be motivated to take a vocational education, because that would be good. You can also look to a country like Switzerland where they really succeed in getting a lot of people into vocational schools. It is a requirement that they have an agreement with a company, and they are every week at least one or two days out by the company, and there are good opportunities to study further afterwards at the university if you want to take a superstructure. So I think there are some things we can be inspired by in this area at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173147	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173148	Thank you. I fully agree that we can learn from Switzerland, which was the last country I lived in 1 in the world on innovation. So we can be a little humble and learn from other places. However, I would like to say that I heard the rapporteur talk about requirements and examinations and tests, and grades can be a good professional pointer in making demands and the opportunity to show confidence. In upper secondary education, there is a lot about it being a character race, but how do we change it so that it becomes a professional pointer mark and that it is a requirement and that it is actually not a pressure we make against young people, but that it is actually something that helps so that we can better see where it is that you have to put in and better see where you have strong competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173247	How do we change the school students' perception of grades? We cannot change that in here, nor will I try to convince anyone that we can, because it is actually very limited how many problems in society we can solve by Christiansborg. In my speech, however, I have tried to explain what is happening in our culture, what are some trends in our society that can help to explain that there is a degree of a culture of perfection, that there is a loss of education, that you may feel more alone with your challenges and then become even more insecure in the encounter with characters, for example, and that there are a lot of abstract, flyic demands that are difficult to meet, and then you turn to the concrete, tangible demands and perhaps make too much of them. That's the closest I'm gonna get to an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173324	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173327	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. I'm just trying to accommodate it, as sir. Alex Vanopslagh says about these boys. Now I am a school teacher myself, and we really do need to talk about the need to have more subjects on the schedule in primary school and so on, so to speak about the fact that, of course, we need to set schools free and that we also need to look at this with recognition of different skills. It could, for example, be done. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. get some basic skills in primary school. So today's school is just basically designed for the quiet girls and not for the little wild boys. So was it something that the Liberal Alliance could support, in other words, the re-establishment of traditional mastery and also the recognition of the work of the hand to a much greater extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173424	I have not heard any proposals yet, as we do per year. definition is receptive to. Well, now it's sir. Henrik Dahl, our teaching rapporteur, and he is the one who is going to negotiate it on our behalf. So now I must also be careful that I promise not too much, but it is certainly not something that we reject at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173439	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173441	Thank you. Well, I actually think that a majority is beginning to emerge, so I would just like to welcome that. So thank you for that. That's all, really.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173457	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173501	Thank you. I also thought it was a very good speech and a fine presentation. There is something that I cannot really find out whether I agree with and that I would like to examine in more detail what the rapporteur thinks about. This is the part about young people not betting on being what they want or taking for granted that you should love your job. Does the rapporteur not believe that the fact that we all find the right shelf and are as close to what really inspires us as possible will make us become involved, in public and in private, as entrepreneurs, and that we are ready to go there extra meters to contribute to society when we love our work and we look forward every day to standing up for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173547	Well, it's a fantastic privilege if you're so lucky that you love every part of your work and you also find it meaningful that it's something, more and more people are asking for it, but I think it's unfortunate and not really the best advice you can give to young people that they have to burn for what they're doing, because then it won't be good enough until you're happy with what you're doing. But if you're good at it and you're happy with your work and it otherwise meets some different needs in your life, it's good enough, and that's what I really want to turn around. I come to think of a story that I was told the other day about a sibling couple who came to Denmark, actually as refugees at the time, and where the youngest, the girl, was mystified at school and in high school and got top marks all the way through, but she didn't know what to read. Then she was told, "You have to choose something you're passionate about." Then she thought: Well, I like exercise and diet and stuff. Then she read diet and nutrition, and today she has had incredibly difficult to find a job, she doesn't earn much, and she is basically unhappy that she chose to go that way. Her older brother, who wasn't as sharp at school, thought: I want to go to law school; it's not something I'm passionate about, but I guess I'm doing very well. And he ended up having a job he's far more satisfied with, and he has better job opportunities. So this is an example of how that advice can go wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173659	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173700	Well, the conclusion of that story is that it's about ending up where you're supposed to be. I mean, the big brother ends up with a job he likes, and I guess that's what we're gonna have to try. I assume that the rapporteur loves his work, and perhaps I think it is a little arrogant to say that in order to succeed with the policy that will have us re-elected, young people must accept that they should work with something that does not interest them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173726	It is also to tighten it up a little to say that I say that they should not do so. But the thing about us making it a requirement that the good life is that you're passionate about your work, I think I'm making the problem worse. I'm not so sure of it, but I think it is. Am I burning for my work? Well, I am incredibly privileged; I can work for my passion. But is there a lot of my work that I basically don't bother? Yes, but I do it anyway, because it is a duty, and of course young people must also be told.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173757	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173800	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. That's absolutely right: it's not about being happy. You can't be happy all the time. It's about meaning. And I think, like most others, that it was an excellent and very meaningful speech, as Mr. Alex Vanopslagh held here. But there's one thing that shatters a little, and it's this merkantilisation of our education system in relation to this, that with the devil's violence and power you have to be useful in the labour market before you get to know about it, and it can't go fast enough. And we're turning down ancient knowledge and some of these educations, which may not just be designed for you to build large structures, but which may make you understand the four Greek virtues, which are symbolized here above our heads with the four statues. Is it something like that, sir? Alex Vanopslagh has given us the idea that we have for a number of years been very concerned about this value in the labour market ahead of spirituality?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173921	Certainly there has been a tendency for us to talk about this as if we were practically training for the sake of companies or the public sector. It is not quite true if you have to formulate it in a different way, you can say: the education system and the primary school must not only ensure that we have something to live on in the future, but also that we are aware of what it is that we live for. And perhaps not enough attention has been paid to the latter, and it does so that it may be harder to deal with some of the challenges you face in life, because you have a weaker foundation, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173949	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007173951	Was that the answer from the Liberal Alliance to what we should do with our young people already in school? I've heard both the Prime Minister and Mr. Simpson. Søren Pape Poulsen is arguing that they should simply be allowed to enter some companies immediately instead of perhaps allowing them to acquire some knowledge and skills at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174011	Now you have to be careful not to confuse the problems. The solution for some school-tired boys may well be that they come out and have some more practical subjects or come out into some companies, but that does not mean that the whole primary school should be defined by what the companies want and that it should dominate all the subjects. I think that what is the way forward is that we scrap all those stupid learning goals that are, and that with responsibility for our own learning; that we give schools a hundred percent freedom to how what I mean, we are the only country in the world, I think that does not have a national curriculum for primary school. We could of course have this: a curriculum that defines the most important knowledge and skills in each subject. And it has to be professional stuff... not skills and all sorts of academic stuff. And it may then fill half the teaching, but it's something everyone has to go through, and the rest is up to the schools. That would be my commandment and my thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174059	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174101	Thanks for the speech. Now the rapporteur and I both have a history at Copenhagen City Hall. I am somewhat older than the rapporteur. I'm just gonna mention it, because otherwise people usually don't notice. But one of the things for which I would like to commend the Liberal Alliance is that when it comes to the rights of lgbt+ people, the Liberal Alliance has historically voted with the red block to improve things, often against the blue block. And every time you have improved the rights of homosexuals, the most conservative forces have always said that it is a frontal attack on the family that you do these things. And now I can read from the rapporteur's favourite medium Netavisen Pio that the rapporteur uses exactly the same argument in terms of giving more maternity leave to men, that is to say it is a frontal attack on the family. Does the rapporteur not see at all that it is a problem that women take nine times as much maternity leave as men do at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174149	No, I can't. It must be up to people themselves. It is fair enough that there are women who give their careers a very high priority. But I can think back to when I became a father myself. My child's mother didn't want to give up any maternity leave at all, and she doesn't care if it means less pay or a worse career, because it's so much more important for her to be there a hundred percent for our son. So I feel like it must be up to the families themselves. What we have proposed is to remove all earmarking, so that we also take account of rainbow families or two fathers, or what do I know, or some who say that grandmother would like to take something off the bar. I think that if you set it completely free, yes, there will be a development in society, and there are some things that will change, but I think that there are many families where they voluntarily prefer the mother to take a large part of the barsle. And I don't think we should work against that on the part of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174248	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174250	After all, we can all have some personal anecdotes, and I do recognize the picture that the rapporteur is talking about. But can the rapporteur not admit that there is also a problem in terms of pay for men and women, where one does not earn as much and where it can also have an impact on this? Then there may be stories that women want to, but I guess there's basically a problem that you get to grips with this way. So, does the rapporteur have another idea on how to get men to take more maternity leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174317	I have no ideas about how people should adjust their privacy. It's none of my business. I'm sorry I'm getting a little pointy. But I haven't. I don't go around dreaming about how people are supposed to organize their maternity leave. It's none of my business. It is the right of families to find out for themselves what is good for them and their children. And I am so sorry that maternity policy is being hijacked by equality policy, because maternity policy is not about equality. It's about the families and the kids. Yes, it is true that when mothers take maternity leave there is a difference in pay, that is absolutely correct, but it is not necessarily a major social problem for that reason. And those women who want to promote their careers must ask their husbands to take some maternity leave, and I really think it is right that they should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174359	Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174402	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur, because at last there will be a rapporteur with the right height, which I can see above the flowers in front of the platform. Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent speech about the product of social development, a youth or social problem. We are not alone responsible for this in the Folketing. It is also about the world around us: The development of social media; things that are beyond our control. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur would like to reflect a little on things that are beyond our control. There are others in this Chamber who think: we can do a great deal with politics. And we can do a great deal, but does not the rapporteur also agree that there are severe limits to what we can do, that is, that there are limits to politics? Some of the social problems that we are struggling with and that young people are struggling with are some that have been created by these people who are present in this room, because with the best will we try to solve problems by legislating and by making rules, and that sometimes has the completely opposite effect. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174505	I fully agree with all the words said, and perhaps we should make it more popular as a politician to say: I cannot do anything about that, or I will do nothing about it. I don't know if it's gonna be popular in the short term, but it would certainly be honest. And then I think it is a good idea to accept what is now outside one's control, whether it be private or political.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174527	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174530	There you may ask, in relation to the rules on maternity leave, what can we do there? It's a little out of our control. There is a European community that makes some rules. You can then be happy or less happy about them, but the rules are as they are, and if you are in the European Union, you must also implement them. But it wasn't really maternity I wanted to talk about. It is just because I think that the rapporteur himself is a little guilty of some things, i.e. that we can do a lot in maternity that we really cannot do as long as we are a member of the European Union. So I have to ask again: does the rapporteur not also acknowledge that some of the things the rapporteur is preaching are also guilty of, among other things. in the field of maternity, in relation to the position of the Liberal Alliance there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174609	Well, I'd like to say, "A for performance." But I don't agree. So it is not long ago that the Left had the position or position, or what to call it, that if this was adopted, it should be challenged in a court of law because it exceeded and did not respect the principle of subsidiarity. I think that is an excellent approach. We should have that tested, because it is clear that maternity policy is of course best defined in individual countries, and neither in Brussels nor in Strasbourg. So I agree with the old Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174637	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alexander Grandt, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174643	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about the economic side of the Corona crisis. Prior to a party leader's debate on 14 May last year on the Corona crisis and the cost of the Corona crisis, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh on Facebook, and I quote: We must be careful that we do not make the bill too big, and we must ensure that there are as many as possible who can help pay the bill. Will Mr. Alex Vanopslagh didn't admit today that there wasn't a big bill of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174719	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174721	First of all, may I bid Mr. Alexander Grandt welcome to the Folketing. I'd like to say that it's a happy reunion. I think the last time we saw you many years ago, you knocked me out of DM in debate, so it's kind of with mixed feelings that I say it, but nevertheless I'd like to say welcome to. Is the bill big or not? Well, it's going well in the Danish economy, and no, it's not expensive to borrow money right now. You've had a big bill? Yes, it has been massive for all the companies that have been forced out of business. There is an enormous amount of lost earnings. So, yes, of course, the bill has been large, and some of the personal consequences have been enormous in relation to misfortunes and bankruptcies and the like. But it is true that socio-economic things are going well in Denmark right now. I think we should be careful not to conclude that this is the sole reason for aid packages. The reason why things are going well in Denmark now is first and foremost that we have managed the health crisis well. Well, the corona crisis was a supply crisis... they shut down the supply of goods and production... and when the health crisis saw the end of the goose-eyes... you could open the community again, and that's why things aren't necessarily going well alone because of aid packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174820	Alexander Grandt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174821	I understand that this has, of course, been a major crisis for the many companies that have been affected and for those who have lost their jobs. But that's not what I'm asking you about. After all, it is the economy that you really are talking about at the end. Because if we now have towering employment today, if we now have low unemployment, if we now have public finances that are in balance, and a public budget that goes into zero, then that must also be due to the policy pursued. You can't quite take the politics of the equation out of the equation. Will Mr. Alex Vanopslagh does not admit today that the government's economic crisis management has been a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174856	I would also like to welcome you. But I must also say that there are some perhaps rather curious rules, but they are there, and the Rules of Procedure do not allow you to say 'you'. You might as well learn from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174910	There are a large number of countries throughout the Western world who are experiencing high employment, high growth, a shortage of labour on top of the corona crisis. And no, it is not the social democratic government in Denmark that can take credit for that development in all those countries. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174929	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007174934	Thank you. Let me say straight away that there are no questions, but actually just a brief comment. I had the feeling, particularly during the second half of the rapporteur's speech, that it was a confirmation speech. And you have to take that positively, because it was an excellent confirmation speech. In fact, I wish I had held it myself, and is it really not the case that, even when we have come up a little over the years, we need such a confirmation speech sometimes? I am very confident about the fact that the Liberal Alliance has actually created so much cohesion in the Folketing today about primary school and our young people. The rapporteur is very grateful for this, and I would just like to acknowledge from the Left that we are looking forward to entering into a further dialogue on this. So thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175029	You're welcome, and thank you for the nice words. I appreciate those.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175036	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175039	I would like to challenge the rapporteur so that he does not feel compelled to talk only about tax next time, for thank you very much for giving a speech about something very important. I agreed with much of what the rapporteur said, but there was also some of it that I thought was equally ample conservative enough. After all, it is not either-or, and when we in the Radical Left are concerned about getting more pockets in school, where there are no tests and grades and very guiding goals for teaching, it is precisely because we are going where students are not always to deal with what they are learning, but that they are actually going to have some time to immerse themselves and be absorbed in something other than themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175123	I don't quite know how this false contradiction has come about between learning and immersing. Well, I guess it's more each other's prerequisites. So I'm not sure I understand the criticism or the question. I think that learning is incredibly important. It may even need to focus more on professionalism, and where the teacher takes responsibility for professionalism, that is, it is not something that is left too much to the children. So what I fear most, the worst development I could imagine in primary school, becomes, so to speak, the adultless space. Does that sound conservative? Maybe, but that's what I mean anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175203	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175204	I think that if we are going to get to the root of this problem, we should also look at the game more, so that in our society we give more room for children to have time to play. Because if anywhere, the game is where you are present here and now and do not pursue an external goal. That is why I would just like to use the second part here to thank the Liberal Alliance for being part of our recreational policy majority, which is, for the time being, bypassing the government, but I am very much looking forward to seeing what we can use it for.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175237	Yes, but we have a common struggle to ensure both shorter school days and, hopefully, that the leisure areas are free zones, and that you do not move the hours into the recess or the recess into the classes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175249	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175252	Thank you. It is said that there is a shortage of labour in Denmark. I'm a little in doubt myself. However, I have sometimes wondered a bit about the fact that when civil politicians, including the Liberal Alliance, have to come up with what we do then it is lower unemployment benefits and cash benefits and a little whip for the unemployed, and then more will get into the labour market. This presupposes that the unemployed are lazy and do not want to work because they get too much money for not working. I do not believe that there is a shortage of labour in Denmark, but there is a shortage of skilled labour in Denmark. Why this one-track message from the bourgeois when we're discussing these things? Most people want to have a job themselves and will be independent of the benefit system or the cash benefits system, even if the salary does not carry the pleasure in itself and you do not get much more money out of it. This is my experience for many years. I myself got to work by saying that in the 1980s we could go on training while we were unemployed and get qualifications and did not have to write foolish applications and do foolish useful jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175413	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175414	I think it is beyond doubt for anyone who is not a member of the Enhedslisten Parliament Group that there is a shortage of labour in Denmark. There is a shortage of qualified, specialised workers, but there is also a shortage of servants and cleaning workers and many others. So there is a great shortage of labour and it is true that the Liberal Alliance would like to use the economic carrot. We would like to remove the top tax, so those who are already at work would like to work more, and we would like to make the first DKK 7.000. tax-free, so that those who are not in work but take a low-paid job get more out of it, and we also want to make sure that the benefits are not unduly high, because then you get a bigger carrot by taking a job, and that's why we screw those handles. Even the government does so when it comes to screwing up some handles that increase the supply of labour, and then it is reducing benefits or shortening benefits, in this case for graduates. But the same is true of others in public services. It is not the case that graduates are the only ones who respond to economic incentives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175514	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175516	Because a government does so, it does not necessarily make sense, and our benefit was when I was unemployed in the 1980s, that is, relatively higher and closer to pay than it is today. There is much, much greater difference between pay and benefits today. I would like to ask you something, and there are three things I do not understand that the bourgeois do not think about at all. Accidents at work today constitute periods of sickness corresponding to 21,000 full-time jobs, 12,000 apprentices who cannot find a place to work, even though there is a shortage of labour. There are 50,000 unemployed who lack qualifications, elementary qualifications which can be met within 3-6 months and who are not allowed to do so while they are unemployed. Why aren't there such things you're betting on? You could also take the refugees and immigrants who are here and who cannot be allowed to work. We have a lot of manpower in the country if you want to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175618	I have nothing against upgrading or exploiting the opportunities that are once available in Denmark, but the problem is great, the problem is acute, and therefore, of course, we must also have foreign labour. We also need to look at the benefits, and we also need to look at taxes, and that is not mutually exclusive. I recognise that, and I wish that Enhedslisten also acknowledged that the two things did not have to be mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175644	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175647	Thank you. Now there are many confirmation speeches starting with the speaker saying that now I am not a great speaker. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Alex Vanopslagh didn't, but I'd like to admit that I actually think that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh is a great speaker. But I think it's a little interesting to talk about the cost of corona. Because if there is something that I believe we have learned from Corona, it is precisely how important it is with the strength of a strong community, in other words that we have a strong community that can hold hands under our vulnerable and vulnerable citizens, but also hold hands under our jobs. However, a place where the Liberal Alliance has at least been willing to spend money is, of course, in relation to the so-called opt-in system in relation to vaccines. And then it turned out that an average price for a vaccine in the opt-in system was somewhere around DKK 4,250, whereas a vaccine in the public system was about DKK 218. In fact, the price in August, when there was a large supply of vaccines to the public vaccination programme, was in the private vaccination programme of DKK 43,000. for a vaccine. It must therefore be compared to what could be offered in the public vaccination system, which was about DKK 200. Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, that the regime that the Liberal Alliance fought so hard for was a sensible use of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175814	It is, of course, a sensible use of taxpayers' money to ensure that we fund over tax, that people can be vaccinated, and it was sensible to give people that freedom of choice at the time. So what you're asking is, has it been cost-effective, and could the money have been spent better and something like that? I do not know those calculations, and I cannot see through them, but it sounds very expensive, and there must be some good explanation for what I do not know, but perhaps the rapporteur does. It may also be that it was because they did not have to give so many vaccine sticks, but were paid for the same task, and the unit price was then higher. I don't know. I don't know the numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175845	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175847	No, and that is, of course, fair enough, and the rapporteur should not be able to explain that either. I can only note that it was at least the clear assessment that it was not important for the general fight against infection in the country, that it was not important for combating the spread of infection, and that therefore it did not have any bearing on the speed with which the restrictions could be withdrawn. That is why, if you make sure that you keep a system in the collective system, what is publicly funded when we talk about vaccination programmes, you can do it both better and more effectively than you can, if you do an outsourcing, what the Liberal Alliance here has apparently insisted on for ideological reasons. Because there was certainly no medical justification for this, and it has subsequently been shown that the citizens who have received this vaccination must be vaccinated with one of the vaccines in the public vaccination programme in order to obtain adequate coverage.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175940	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007175941	As a general rule, I am not much for admitting that in the light of hindsight I can well see that another decision would have been better. But it is quite true that it has been shown that the vaccines you ended up driving were actually more effective and that it was perhaps wise to wait for them. I did not mean that politically at the time. Like so many others, I was outraged that the Danes were deprived of that choice. I also expected that the scheme would be much more popular. It wasn't, and then you're smarter. But jumping from there to say that it means that outsourcing is at all times a bad idea and that it all has to be collectivised is equally imaginative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007180017	Thank you. There are no more authors, so thank you to the rapporteur. It was so good that we can now call off for a meal break, and we start again at 8:00. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007190034	Then the sitting is resumed, and it is now time for Mr. Torsten Gejl of the Alternative gets the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007190051	On Tuesday, at the opening of the Danish Parliament, the Prime Minister started his speech like this: Imagine a future in Denmark, where the air is completely pure: the feeling of breathing deeply and safely, cities with green spaces, gardens on the roofs, creeping up the facades...• This is actually a beautiful introduction to a speech. There is both poetry and hope. The challenge, however, is that the Prime Minister is asking us to imagine these scenarios. The word depicts, I think, characterises the government and the support parties' efforts to limit CO2 and sometimes we get no further than the performances. A large part of the CO2 and this was reiterated in the Agriculture Agreement just adopted. A very large part is about future pyrolysis and more fat in the feed. In this way, in our view, the Agriculture Agreement became part of a number of wretched climate agreements which put off problems rather than solving them. After all, it is counterproductive, now that the UN climate panel has been published with a climate report that says that we reach 1.5 degrees temperature increase 10 years before we expected it. The government's response was to come up with its climate statement, which is a plan for a plan to do something, much of which is after the next elections, which cements that the big heavy decisions will only be made after the next elections. In his speech, the Socialist rapporteur called the agreement to reduce the production of meat in agriculture an historic one and stressed that it helped to eliminate the political element. In the alternative, we also believe that it is historic, but when we look at the challenges that we face today in terms of climate, we do believe that it is historically poor and we do not believe that it counteracts politicians when they stand and praise a bad agreement for the clouds. We think it creates politicians. We also note that the Agriculture Agreement gives rise to a lot of criticism from both green organisations, in the media and from business, but we naturally admit that there are positive elements, for example. removal of low bottom soil, money for more plant-based foods and enhanced ecology. That's great politics. So the agreement will then go beyond the steppes, but not much closer to the distant blue mountains. It's nice little steps. The problem is that right now we need a tiger jump. The parties to the agreement failed to do what the alternative considers to be the most important thing in relation to agriculture, namely to ensure a real reduction in meat production. If we're gonna lift up in the helicopter and look down on Denmark, 60 percent. of Denmark covered by agriculture. We are with Bangladesh the country in the world where there is most agriculture. 80% of what we grow, we use to feed animals along with a lot of soy that we import from areas of the world where there should have been rainforest. So we have the black belt in animal production in Denmark. The problem is that animal production emits very large amounts of CO2 It displaces nature and biodiversity, it poisons groundwater and causes oxygen loss, and it compromises animal welfare to a very grotesque extent. For example, death occurs. 28,000 piglets a day in Denmark. By helping agriculture to reduce animal production, we could alleviate these serious problems, but from the Enhedslisten to New Citizens it is evident that reducing meat production is a taboo. One of the strongest arguments here is the argument of so-called leakage. This means that if we reduce meat production in Denmark, it will just be produced in Poland instead, and here agriculture pollutes much more. The only problem is that the leak argument doesn't hold water. The climate-economic wise men say today that the leakage rate is 25% if, for example, we do not want to see it. Makes a climate tax of DKK 100. per tonnes. This means that when we drop producing a cow in Denmark, only a quarter of the cow is produced abroad instead. This means that the argument we have heard over and over again from the government and a number of parties that animal production simply moves to Poland, if we cut it down in Denmark, simply does not hold water. Only a quarter of the meat will be produced elsewhere. The rest will not be produced, at all. I am not saying that to beat all the parties who have used that argument. I am just mentioning this to say that we can well approach a reduction in meat production without having the consequences that we all go and repeat that it has. Turns out it doesn't actually. In the alternative, we did not leave the agricultural negotiations until it was quite clear that agriculture would not be helped to reduce meat production at all. Our plan, of course, is not to force meat-producing farms to be shut down. After all, we must reduce meat production in a way that is as considerate as possible. In the Netherlands, they have a model with a quota system whereby quotas are reduced and livestock are reduced. In the Netherlands, a Pig Farming Closure Scheme has been introduced which targets the reduction of pigs. The scheme includes aid for the disposal of pigs, the demolition of stables, etc. and the scheme has been approved by the European Commission. This is just one example, and I am sure that we could also find a good Danish model for reducing meat production. The only problem is that no one in the Folketing, apart from the alternative, dares to touch it. If the parties behind the agricultural agreement had dared to talk about it, models could have been looked at and the reduction of meat production could have started, and we would really have liked to have been included in that agreement in the alternative. The Socialist rapporteur said in his speech that Denmark emits a very small proportion of the total CO2 emissions of the world. We are so small that we do not have to do anything. The alternative cannot disagree more with that assumption, although it has been repeated infinitely many times in the climate debate. We need to reduce our CO2 Firstly, Denmark is responsible for a disproportionate proportion of emissions. We have a very large climate footprint in the world compared to our size. If everyone emitted as much CO2 Secondly, as a rich and flexible country, we should, of course, pioneer. It is this part of the world that must take the lead instead of expecting the poor part of the world to deal with the problems for us. Thirdly, we must challenge ourselves. When we introduce measures to reduce CO2 climate tax, it creates innovation in Denmark. I fully agree with what the Prime Minister said in her speech last Tuesday, namely that, for lack of raw materials, we must live on know-how in Denmark. We need to develop solutions, and this requires that we think ambitiously and create a real and concrete framework for CO2 Lars Fruergaard Jørgensen, CEO of Novo Nordisk, said as a comment on the Agriculture Agreement: "The best thing the government can do for us is not to postpone the difficult decisions, but to create the necessary clarity and roadmap for the whole society to achieve the 2030 target. ▪ If we create a clear, concrete and timely framework for CO2 2 In the Alternative, we were extremely happy when the Prime Minister said in his statement on Tuesday that India will now make a partnership with Denmark to use our technology to reduce their CO2 When we create technology that the really big players need to use to reduce their CO2 It takes the courage to make decisions and set a clear framework that Novo Nordisk and many other big players in Danish business want, and I don't think the government and parties that support the bad climate agreements deliver that. Clearly something is being delivered. When India is interested in our climate technology, we deliver something, but I do not think we deliver enough, because the parties from Enhedslisten to New Citizens dare not make demands on Danish business that create clear and clear reduction conditions here and now. Instead, we deliver birds on the roof the size of the goose vulture that chose to spend much of the summer on Samsø. As the Prime Minister also said in his speech on Tuesday, we do not deliver enough, although we have one of the world's best climate laws. Therefore, we should now be setting our reduction targets by 2030 up to 75%. or 80%, or whatever science now thinks it's gonna take for us to take our share of the savings, rather than slow down reaching the 70% agreed in the Climate Act. In the alternative, we will work to get our climate policy back on track, and we are only satisfied when Denmark is at the top of the effort when it comes to reducing our share of the world's total CO2 It is clear that there is still a huge amount of work ahead of us, and there we are pleased in the alternative that the UN climate panel says that with the right effort we can still make sure that we are content with a temperature increase in the world of 1.5 degrees. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191104	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Torsten Gejl (ELDR). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. One of the big things on the green agenda is how we finance all these investments that have to be made, and it is so in relation to the amount of green bonds that there is simply not enough green bonds in circulation. How will the alternative increase the amount of green bonds?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191139	I mean, it wasn't in the Netherlands that green bonds were offered, and it wasn't 46 billion. kr., you almost got funded in a day? So, of course, this is one of the things that is really interesting. But another thing is that we also have to understand that there is Who should have known that we could use, some say up to 200-300 billion. kr. On corona? Who knew we had that money? Imagine if we had said that we would invest some of that money, and it could also be by loans, on green conversion. I'm sure those investments will come back again. In addition, in the alternative of our government programme, we have financed 20 billion. kr. a year for sustainable conversion for four years, including: by taxing pension payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191230	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191231	Thanks for trying to get an answer. The second issue I have is that there is now talk of leakage in food production, and there was a good explanation of why people do not believe in it. But what about leakage in energy production? How will the alternative prevent leakage in energy production?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191254	I am not sure that I fully understand the question, because when it comes to leakage in food production, it is about the fact that if we stop producing here, others will produce it, while with energy production I see it as the other way around. We're going to make the world's largest green outlet in the North Sea in 2030 with this huge energy island with 64 football fields filled with installations of some giant mills around. I am sorry if I misunderstand the question, but I actually think it is the other way round: I think it is the others who are about to produce very well to come with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191331	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191335	Thank you. Thank you, the rapporteur, for your speech, where you could feel your commitment. I would like to ask a slightly different question. At the moment, there is a citizens' proposal, which is, of course, an arrangement which the alternative has so far been the leader and originator of, which goes against the decision, unfortunately, the Alternative helped to take to ban the possibility of creating new private day-care institutions in Denmark and, at the same time, making it impossible to pull profits out of existing ones. It just surprises me that the alternative is part of it, because I think that when the alternative was formed as a party it was with such a pioneer spirit and such a desire to think differently and out of the box, and everyone doesn't have to be like each other. So now that they have had successful Rudolf Steiner children's gardens and made small local institutions shouting and at the same time pointing out that by 2030 18 per cent will come. more children in the daycare age, how can this be the answer to this, that is, to prevent the fire souls from engaging and making offers like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191440	Thank you for the question. In other words, the rapporteur is stepping on the sore toe of the alternative throughout the big agreement on minimum standards, which is, of course, a fantastic agreement in our view. It has not come to the end at all yet, but it is clearly in the right direction. There we have also tried, together with the Radicals, to fight for greater freedom for the small, exciting, alternative, independent care systems, and that battle is not quite finished yet. This is something we really want to continue with, because yes, we like the tiny free initiatives. We are actually getting a lot of scold from our followers, who have all-handed little schemes that they want to keep.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191523	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191524	Thank you very much for having the courage to admit that this is also a decision that is now being reflected on. I think that we are having a discussion with each other right now on centralisation and on the possibility of keeping as much local as is now possible. We have just seen that many of these services have arisen in response to the decision to close local services in a municipality, which is why it is all the more surprising on my part that this decision has been taken. But thank you for your answer. And then I hope that we can work together continuously on how to correct the mistake that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191558	Well, we're not quite done with that yet, and we'll do what we can. On the whole, we are pleased with small experimental schools, care systems, organisations and the whole growth layer of civil society, with all its volunteers too. Then it was up to us to push a little of the public economy into civil society and to involve it more in solving social tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191624	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191628	Thank you for that and thank you for the good priorities in the rapporteur's speech. I think it is well placed and I myself have also had doubts as to what would be best to do in a situation where the agricultural agreement was as it was. After all, this is a dilemma that we have experienced before, where the alternative has entered into some conciliation while the Enhedslisten was outside, and therefore there is nothing wrong in principle in standing outside in my opinion. You can be stronger when you're outside; you can also be stronger when you're in a settlement. It's a hell of a dilemma. Sorry, it's an ugly dilemma to stand in here in Parliament. It is often a question of whether you can help create greater extra-parliamentary activity by standing outside or by being inside, in my opinion, because we need that. We need the people to tell us, as they did in the election campaign two years ago: we have to move on, we have to move on a lot, and you are unambitious with the objective that is being set now. I fully agree with that. And there I would say that whether we have a leg inside the settlement or a leg outside, we have an incredibly large bourgeois dead weight on this issue. And the bourgeois will hang on because that's why they want to get into the settlement, that's to calm this down. And that's where I think we're gonna have to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191749	Well, that's showing words.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191755	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191756	Well, I don't have to say anything more when we agree, do I? So I just want to say: let us make sure that we use the primacy that exists in the population, because people think that many politicians are a bumpy brat in terms of this climate. And then we have to get some more operation in it so that they can also understand it over on the blue side, namely that much more speed is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191815	At the moment, I think that we in the Danish Parliament are inclined to celebrate climate agreements as if we were now almost there. At the same time, we see at the Palace Square that the green students and the climate movement are demonstrating. People need to be carried away from Parliament's stairs, people are starving. It makes an incredible impression on us in the Alternative that those who live and breathe for the climate are so incredibly unhappy with what we do. And there is our task, I feel at the moment, to try to build a bridge so that there is a better balance between the attitudes and the knowledge that is outside, and then what is happening inside this thing. So I think that at the moment there is a need to listen to them in reality and then learn a little and then learn a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191906	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007191909	It is now my impression that the parties here in the Folketing are doing so, but it is the case that we are elected to take on some holistic interests. We cannot simply go into a single matter and say that we are only listening to those who have that single matter. Yes, you can, but then you cut yourself off from influence over time, and that is exactly what has happened to the alternative here. What we are talking about is that we have concluded a framework agreement, which means that there are a large number of initiatives to be implemented over the coming years. Those initiatives have been excluded from the scope of the alternative. The implementation of that agreement has been excluded from the scope of the alternative. So the question is how much, when it comes to the reality, the alternative has done to reduce agricultural CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192014	Well, now the climate isn't a single matter. The climate affects all of us... it affects all areas of society. So it's not because we hear only listening to one green movement. I mentioned Novo Nordisk, and they are not the only ones from the business community who say: you have to come up with some rules that we can use in order to be innovative and create new solutions. It's no good we don't know when there's gonna be a climate tax. It's no good we don't know what it's on. So there's a demand from many in society that we solve this. What have we done? We've had to put our foot down. It is not the case that all parties are included in all agreements. Sometimes a situation arises in which one has to say: this cannot be right in relation to what we have promised our constituents, so we cannot green stamp this. We need to ensure that there is at least one clear green voice in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192109	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192110	Yes, yes, it is quite fair, and it is also quite legitimate, and we each choose, as we are different parties, when we enter into an agreement and when we do not. But when it comes to something as central and as large as Mr. Torsten Gejl so rightly says, it may just wonder, precisely with the profile that the Alternative has, that one chooses to sit outside of influence. Because there are so many things in the agreement that need to be implemented on an ongoing basis, and the voice of the alternative might perhaps have been enriching in that discussion inside the negotiating room and not just here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192149-2	Yeah, and it's always a dilemma. I'm not gonna let that down. We have received a great many statements, including from the green organisations from which we are receiving advice, that it was wise for one party to say: we simply do not want to be involved in this. It is a question of our credibility, it is a question of our integrity, and Mr. Jens Rohde will also occasionally get into situations where he has to stop engaging in things he can't see himself in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192215	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192219	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Sir. Torsten Gejl says this about the fact that he doesn't think that this climate agreement on agriculture is particularly green. I would like to ask Mr. Torsten Gejl about something. Does he think it's greener, for example? to take organic food so that we reached the climate emission target of 70%. by moving some of the organic production abroad? Or that we actually managed to reduce the climate impression of organic production by becoming more climate-friendly compared to producing organic food in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192259	I'm not quite sure I understood that question. I believe that we should have as much organic food production in Denmark as we possibly can, and it is very good to convert to ecology. It doesn't have much to do with the climate. In my opinion, it is more about biodiversity. Ecology ensures that we do not spray the fields, which means that the beetles and the flower flies and butterflies and the larks and the vibes survive. So I see much ecology as a very, very good thing for our nature and our biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192332	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192334	Then I'll try to ask in a slightly different way. See, sir. Torsten Gejl not also that as a country we have a responsibility for technology development? In addition to the fact that we have to reduce our own CO2 emissions from wind turbines nationally and which we are now proposing to do in the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192355	Yes, and if we give industry clear guidelines so that they know what can be expected and when there will be any tightening, then I think we will give them a better condition for developing green technology, such as. Apparently India is interested in. Because, yes, we multiply our influence a thousand times if we can develop the green technology as the great CO2 and think what business adventure it can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192423	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192426	Thank you. Now I love cars, all kinds of cars, but the rapporteur loves electric cars, green cars. In other words, as is currently the case, green cars are being taxed, which means that not as many people are going to drive as they could get out. Will the alternative help to remove the tax, maybe not on all cars? I understand that we may not be able to agree on that. But what if we start with hybrid cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192455	I think hybrid cars are a necessary transitional phenomenon that I'm not actually so fond of. Green cars, of course, I would have liked to make as cheap as possible, but I think the problem with the so-called green car agreement that was made is that it will put 600.000 more cars on the street by 2030. Half of the CO2 2 is therefore the most important thing for us to reduce the number of cars. We simply have to, or we have to replace it with driving a few more cars. There is no reason why we should all sit and watch a car separately with public traffic, cycling etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192540	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192541	No, that's fair enough. Now we can't all drive around on Christiania bikes and everything else. We're both coming from somewhere where we need to have a car. Now that we're living in the reality where we can't take that Christiania bike back and forth, it wouldn't be a good idea for us to do these cars so CO2 and we can do that by getting more electric cars on the roads and by removing the tax on them. What does the rapporteur say?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192605	Yes, I would like to help make electric cars cheaper, and electric cars are a transitional phenomenon until we find other fuels or learn how to turn electricity into, for example. hydrogen. So, yes, I'd like to, but notice how we sit and cheer in each of our cars. Note how we could use the cars incredibly much better. I'd like to, and it's also something we're trying to get through in the transport agreement, such an app that tells you that 200 m down the street lives Mrs. Jensen, and she's going to Roskilde, and so are you, and she hears Beethoven in the speaker all the way, and she wants to talk about plants. Then you know a little bit about what kind of company you get, and then I think you make those driving arrangements a little more flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192646	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192650	Thank you. I have a great veneration for the alternative. My old mother has been a member of your party for many years. That may be surprising for some to hear, but that is why I myself have become as progressive as I am. I didn't want to laugh there, Mette Abildgaard. I would like to ask about the relationship of the alternative to nuclear energy. Because if you are now in favour of making a green conversion and we have to have cars running on electricity and all sorts of other things that have to run on electricity, then it is important to find some power sources that do not emit CO2 I do not necessarily say that we need a nuclear power plant in Denmark. But how does the alternative actually feel about the general use of nuclear power Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192739-2	We do not think that this will be necessary in Denmark. There we are making a huge energy island, among other things. in the North Sea, the world's largest green outlet where we can supply ourselves and many others. There is a development in the field of nuclear power which we do not know how to end up. If it can, as you hope, if it really goes well, and you can produce a type of nuclear power that does not pollute, and if it is not just birds on the roof, then the next 5-10 years will show that I cannot rule out that nuclear power in some parts of the world may become a transitional phenomenon, but it therefore requires that technology is shown on its best side and that those who develop it are right, for example. The problem of nuclear waste can be reduced very, very much. So I dare not rule it out completely, and that is because we do not know whether that technology will live up to the hopes attached to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192842	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192848	Thank you. I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his speech, of course, but in fact also on all that the rapporteur has to do as the one-man army, Mr President. Torsten Gejl is. I have very, very much respect for that every day. I would like to focus the debate a little on entrepreneurship, which is also deep in the DNA of the Alternative, so could the rapporteur not this evening tell us a little about what the alternative is in terms of creating a better framework for entrepreneurship here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007192924	Thanks for the nice words. We actually have a lot of thoughts. Being an entrepreneur and getting a CVR-no. is actually relatively simple. It's not so administratively impossible to get a company up and running. What I sometimes think there might be more help with is to refine the product idea. When you have a small idea that might work, it is often, it needs to be developed and may end up in a completely different business idea from what you were doing, and I would like to get a lot more help with that process. Then I would like it to happen in primary school as in Norway, where you get a small business idea that you already develop in first grade, and then you take it all the way up through the school system and expose it to some mathematics, some language, some marketing and some social science. As it is in Norway, you actually come out with a small business idea that has been through many competences in the school system and that may turn into a business, or at least an innovative mindset has been set in motion with the student to a greater extent. It's a couple of ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193026	Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193027	Thank you. Exciting ideas, and we would very much like to contribute to further discussion on them. A very specific question could also be about the economy as a framework condition for entrepreneurship, and a concrete question could be: Will the alternative be with the Left to ensure that it will not be more expensive to operate in Denmark, thereby promoting entrepreneurship and innovation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193050	That question is too big for me to answer this. We believe that if you grow a company that really is straining the climate and the environment and nature, it must be more expensive, and if you run someone who takes care of everything, it must be cheaper. So we have nothing against green taxes which create a balance there. In general, we would like to help entrepreneurs by 80%. of the allowance for 2 years, so that in what was slightly vulnerable during the first 2 years you have some minimal budget for rent and for some things while concentrating on developing your business idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193137	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193140	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a very fine speech. Now the rapporteur spent a great deal of time talking about meat production and how harmful and inappropriate it was. And the rapporteur also spent some time on this leak. Well, we have a relatively large meat production in Denmark, and if we assume that we completely phased out our pig production in Denmark, that is that the pigs in Denmark got the same income as the minks and were completely removed, and if you believe in the leak, how much less meat from pigs the rapporteur thinks you would eat in, for example. China? How much reduction would the Chinese have of their meat consumption because we phased out our pig production?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193233	That's a good question. It's hard to give that number. What I mean by leakage is that it turns out that the financial wise men say that what we have said is that if there is a cow that is not produced in Denmark, then it is produced one for another abroad, not true. Well, they have simply revised that. The economic operators say that only a quarter of the cow is actually produced. And in Denmark meat consumption is slightly decreasing, so we should not be so sure that we are just importing just as much. And these are the things I'm trying to look into to see if we need to approach this very carefully. Actually, I'm not sure we do. In fact, I believe that if we spent more time on this, we could agree on a slow reduction in meat production, which is appropriate to the decline in meat sales in Denmark and which can also be defended, in that not only is the same thing being produced abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193334	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193335	I have some doubts as to whether that was a clear answer. But if we assume that the consumption of pork in China does not move out of the place at all, because we stop producing pig meat in Denmark, do we not risk shooting ourselves in the foot? Do we not risk that the demand for pork, which the Chinese after all have, will have to cover from somewhere else? It might be in South America, where you have to start cutting down some rainforest in order to produce the pork that will then be needed. Since we know that there is virtually no place around the world where you have a smaller climate footprint from food production than in Denmark, is it not a bad trade we make there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193424	That part of it doesn't make the trade any better. But I think that the questioner should read it out, no, perhaps rather arrogantly said it, but then examine what environmentalists are saying at the moment, because they are actually saying that if we reduce meat production in Denmark, it will not be increased in the rest of the world one by one. They simply say so in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193453	The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193456	Thank you so much. It's exciting to follow this debate. I remember when the alternative was in their days of power. You had posters with hope, and you spoke a lot of political process. I myself have been sitting in these agricultural negotiations, where the alternative was for a long time too, and I cannot help thinking that this really is a process which I believe has created hope and unity. We started with a large assembly house, and then there were a large number of meetings with stakeholders that were involved in over 30 meetings. We held together over 70 negotiating meetings, and now we have a sector, with green organisations, with a broad Parliament, which politically supports very, very ambitious climate targets. Well, in case I wake up Mr. Knox... Torsten Gejl in the middle of the night and he pinches himself in the arm, can he not see just a little bit of hope in relation to the broad agricultural agreement that has been agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193555	Yes, I can see hope for organic production, I can see hope for plant-based development, and I can see hope for some of the good things that various parties have brought into the agreement. So, yeah, I can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193613	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193614	And all that hope, of course, should be used to become a pioneer country, because there is nothing about being a pioneer country if we simply dismantle the Danish jobs. It has to be the case that the industrial nations of Germany, the United States and China are jealous of Denmark and say that up there you can produce a pig that is significantly more climate-friendly than in the rest of the world. If we just chase jobs out of the country and if we say that we should minimise animal production, where is the country of origin, and where is the inspiration for the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193649	That, for example. Novo Nordisk says: We want more clear rules of the game. Don't push the hard decisions into the future. Let's get the game board laid, so we know within what framework we are going to create the innovation that creates the green technology that the rest of the world is going to use to stop their CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193715	So, thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl and the alternative. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Christian Democrats, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007193729	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech on Tuesday. I would also like to thank you very much for the fact that we in the Christian Democrats always receive very, very fine and proper and respectful treatment when we come to the government ministers. It is not a matter of course if you have only one mandate, because then you know that in the sacred name of the mandate logic you do not mean much, but it has never at any time, either in the spring or now, slashed with respect and will to listen to arguments. I would like to thank you for that, and I would like to acknowledge that. It is no secret that we are pointing to a blue prime minister. We would like to see a bourgeois-liberal Denmark, and that is because we would like to see a reduction in taxation, for example. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive. After all, in our 2030 plan, we have proposed raising the employment allowance to 26.6 per cent. and raises the top tax limit to 800,000 kroner. We don't really believe that one gets through this side of the Assembly, if I'm to be honest. If we can get it through in the other, I don't know, but that's certainly our ambition. We also want a stop to the approach to early retirement; we do not think that we are getting anything for that, and we think it is important, like so many others, that we increase the supply of work in Denmark, and that is why we have to do the taxes correctly where they give something where we get more work and not less work. We want to set the municipalities free, but not with free municipalities. I have full respect for the fact that this is being done, because it is, of course, a good start, but we want to give them real freedom to make decisions locally. And in the real freedom of decision, and I do not know if we can get anyone on board, there is, in our view, a financial framework that needs to be considerably relaxed for the municipalities. I am also one of those who helped to abolish the tax credit for the regions at the time. I remember that the Social Democrats at the time thundered against it, together with the Radical Left, the SF and other parties; they thought that it was utterly hopeless that in doing so the regions were being disavowed at the time, it was the counties simply to be such lackeys for us, to legitimize our own decisions in here, that is, through the regions. After all, you have to stand by inheritance and debt in politics. I am one of those who believe that this was a wrong decision, because it is impossible to reconcile expectations and services regionally and locally if we do not provide sufficient freedom for municipalities and regions and sufficient capacity for action. So, in my view, it is some bourgeois-liberal virtues, just as it is to us when we say that we want to ease the tax on work for more work; in fact, it is also about the fact that we want to give families more freedom. So our starting point is bourgeois-liberal. But when the government offers to negotiate and if we can find some common rifts, we are always bourgeois voices working with the government in office at any time and will always seek with the one mandate we have so far to gain as much influence through the power of the argument as possible. And as long as we can have that conversation, we are actually well on our way, and I find that we have. Perhaps this conversation is one of the things the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech, namely the democratic conversation that I think we need to dwell on a little, even at a time when we have been waiting for a media event for 21⁄2 years now, I would say to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Finance. Why do I mention a media game? It's just a little corner of something. No, it is not; it is about our democratic infrastructure. The democratic infrastructure is the whole foundation of our democratic conversation, and we need to have the courage to take action with this area in relation to both the infrastructure, the economy and the spirit of it. Allow me to mention the cultural critic Neil Postman, who has made a rather interesting composition of George Orwell's novel, which was published in 1949, and then Aldous Huxley's famous novel •Fagre's new world from 1932. He writes like this about people who let themselves be taken over by technology: what Orwell feared were the people who wanted to ban books. What Huxley feared was that it would be unnecessary to ban books, since no one would read them. Orwell feared those who would give us access to information. Huxley feared those who would give us so much information that we would become passive and self-absorbed. Orwell feared that the truth would be hidden from us. Huxley feared that the truth would drown in a sea of indifference. Orwell feared that we would become a culture of captivity. Huxley feared that we would become a trivial culture without thought for anything other than pastime. ▪ The question is whether we have become both. It may be a little caricatured, however, because much works, but there are obvious challenges in our democratic conversation, and we cannot just point our finger at the tech giants here and say that it is their fault and that their algorithms attribute to the fact that we have a culture of debate and a democratic conversation that does not serve democracy. For now, those problems are certainly there, but there are essentially only us to solve them. And if we want to have more spirit, as the Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech, we must also start by looking at whether the way we run schools really brings the right spirit. I mentioned it earlier to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Is it the right way to go all the time to keep the focus on entrepreneurship in primary school, which has become the big mantra? Yes, it may be very good, but if our students do not learn some basic skills, and if they do not get spirit and culture with them, then they will not become the architects we want them to stay, nor will they become the managers we want to have, who think a little further than just the ordinary bottom line; for it is also about spirit. That is why the democratic dialogue always starts with ourselves and with the way we do things, not only the way we talk here in the Folketing, but also the way we act and what values we ourselves carry with us in our political work. And there are seven virtues, which are, moreover, the counterpart of the seven deadly sins, and the four of them are illustrated up here; these are the four Greek traditional virtues: wisdom, vigilance, justice and truth. It's very good virtue to go with us into our work. And then the Christian church added three more, so it turned into seven, so life shouldn't be so sad, so you don't just have seven deadly sins and then only four good virtues. I don't know if any of you know what the three virtues are, but then I'll tell you it's faith, hope and love. And it is not so bad to go along with the political work either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007194711	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's for mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007194715	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I've always been very fond of the album called "HIP" made by the Steppe Wolves in 1967. Jens Rohde, it wasn't an Absolute Music?). It was not Absolute Music, no, but it is now also a good album. However, the first Danish-speaking rock album was made here at home, and it was an excellent album. There they sing about Aldous Huxley and I have never really understood why they sang about Aldous Huxley, but I have become wiser today after hearing the rapporteur's speech, so thank you for that. And thank you for, I think, good cooperation, thank you for the praise which Mr. Jens Rohde comes along by the government and also thanks for the cooperation we have had in drafting our joint adoption text. It has been entirely constructive. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the Agriculture Agreement that has just been concluded. This is an agreement which we in the government are very pleased with and which I also spent some time on in my own speech. It is the case that we have now had binding targets both on nitrogen and on CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20211007194826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007194828	An agreement is an agreement, and I take that for granted is also a matter of course for all those who participate in the agreement. After all, it is my party chairman, Mrs Isabella Arendt, who has taken part in the negotiations on this, and she is also the one who will be following the ongoing negotiations. As long as we can all look each other in the eye and go constructively to it in the spirit that must be, namely that we want CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211007194924	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007194932	Thanks for the speech. I think there have been several good speeches today, and this was definitely one of the best. Then I am also pleased that the rapporteur mentioned George Orwell, who was a democratic socialist. Many people forget that when they use him for what should they say to beat communist communities in the head. It was precisely about contradictions between totalitarian society and democratic ideas. That is also what I think I hear a little in the rapporteur's speech. With regard to totalitarianism today, many of us are attacking the tech giants and saying that they may be the new totalitarian regimes. And how do we deal with those giants? In fact, I am genuinely curious to hear what the rapporteur thinks we can do in addition, of course, to equip our children with the education and spirit and the tools needed to be critical democratic citizens. I have an 8-year-old bonus daughter myself, and I find it very, very difficult to act as a parent in a world of social media, phone addiction, and what else follows.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195047	Oh, yeah, that part as a parent I know about, too. It's difficult. It's not something we can load the tech giants with. This is something we have to deal with ourselves. I have already put forward a whole series of proposals here in the Danish Parliament. I have also described in a whole chapter of my own book, called "Faith and hope and youth rebellion," concrete initiatives on what we can do. There is also plenty of good inspiration to get from Frederik Stjernfelt, who has also written a book on what initiatives should be taken legislatively to ensure transparency. The really big problem, apart from the tax discussion that we have, is that there is no transparency about the way algorithms are used in these large companies. Here we have a huge task; we just have to solve it internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195203	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195204	I agree with that. I do not agree that we cannot point the finger at the tech giants, because the world has never seen tools such as those being used now. The largest group of new recruits that Mark Zuckerberg had some years ago were not programmers or IT people; they were psychologists, psychiatrists and neuroscientists. It was just to understand how to manipulate our brains. Today is not the time for this discussion any longer, but I think it is one of the most important discussions we can take at all, so I look forward to hopefully continuing it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195247	I am pleased about that, and it should not be understood that I do not think there is anything to criticise them for. But it's hard like putting the education of our own children and limiting the screen use at home to Mark Zuckerberg and others. We also have to grab our own bosom. At least I belong to a generation which, through the 1990s and the 00s, was highly technologically enthusiastic. We have been so enthusiastic about technology that we have forgotten to make the necessary regulation. The first real regulation that has come has actually come with the Copyright Directive, which we had made at European level. It also caused a lot of trouble, and we're going to take a lot of battles when we lead it on. But there's no way around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195334	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech. I am here behind the flowers; some of us need something beautiful in front, so that things don't go wrong when you have to look down. Yeah, I'll get back to that, I'll find out. In relation to the Christian Democrats, I also assume that we must at least also talk about values about the importance of the family, and also about family life. That is why I would like to touch a little on what we have spent time on today and on which I have tried to ask, namely our policy on the elderly and our free choice and so on. I just need to make that quite clear, because I am very impressed by the 2030 plan that the Christian Democrats have put forward on the economy. But where do you stand around the whole free choice, free nursing homes, private nursing homes, practical help, home care, and the opportunities for private people to enter on an equal footing with the municipal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195443	That is where we have supported the Conservative proposal, for example. to ensure such equal calculation. We're in exactly the same place. We will then just have to discuss some of the issues which are real enough and which we have experienced in the City of Viborg with the cleaning. After all, there was a large company that was cleaning up in the City of Viborg, which went down, and then it was the local authorities that had to go in to clean up, and there it wasn't. So we need to find out how to do it better today than we have done in the past and at least learn from some of the mistakes that have happened in different places. But to have ideological opposition to some making money doing a proper job, I have never understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195542	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195544	There's definitely something to learn. It is also sometimes necessary to consider how big a chunk you are offering and whether those who are going to bid should also offer everything, or could divide things up. There's plenty to do about that. Thank you for your support for the motion for a resolution. I just think it is really important that we take the ideology out of this, because I do not have a goal that something should be private or should be municipal. I just think that sometimes the debate is going to be about the wrong thing. We forget what we are discussing, and we forget to ask them what it is about. We forget that it is Mrs Jensen who should be allowed to decide who should come to her home, what food she should eat and who should provide the service; instead we have a discussion about whether it should be municipal or private. I am glad if we can try to get some of the ideology out of that debate together, because I do not understand the ideology. We pay tribute to the free schools as the most natural thing in the world, but it is a problem if you want to have a free nursing home. I just don't understand. And I know we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195640-2	I fully agree with that, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen says here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195647	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195648	Thank you. Now I know that the rapporteur earlier today, and also other times, has paid tribute to it with international commitments and believes that, as a state, we must, of course, live up to them. Does this also apply to NATO commitments in relation to the 2% that we, as the government, have undertaken to give on behalf of Denmark? Is that true there, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195711-2	Yeah, that's what it's gonna do from the start. Moreover, we must discuss within NATO what counts and what does not count in relation to that commitment. Because I do not entirely agree with that, for example. our efforts in Greenland and what we have there do not count in relation to our NATO commitment. But as a starting point, I am always on the team that says: if we have any international obligations, we must also find the way to comply with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195746	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195746-2	Well, that's what puzzles me, because if you look at the KD 2030 plan, the economic plan, you can see that 15.1 billion has been set aside. kr. In addition, public spending, including the defence agreement, that is to say including, in order to be able to reach the 2%. And it costs 17 billion. kr. alone to get up to the 2%. That's why I can't make the numbers stick together. If you say we have to live up to these commitments, then I guess you have to put the money in your financial plan to get up there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195817	That is absolutely right. This is a shortcoming in our proposal, for we have simply not been addressed. So, sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195826	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195829	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde for an interesting, exciting, reflected talk with many important considerations, also about our democratic conversation. I share much of what the rapporteur said, including the part that we cannot blame ourselves on tech giants alone. They are certainly part of the cause and have part of the responsibility for changing the democratic conversation, but we must also seize our own arms as politicians and also take our share of responsibility for it, also as participants in the conversation about it here on the social media or in the news media. We also have a responsibility. But what I really would like to ask is this part about spirit and formation. For one thing is the primary school, as the rapporteur said in his speech, but the spirit and education we also get from culture and not least from Danish content, which can really highlight us as Danes and as a society and as a community. It can be a mirror we can stop each other so we can ask the right questions. There we also see a movement where tech giants in the streaming market challenge Danish content producers and those who produce the Danish content. I would just like to ask the rapporteur how he sees this challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007195940-2	I'm gonna get really tall now that I hear Mr. Knox. Kasper Sand Kjær stand and speak that agenda. That's why I keep standing in the ground after that media show, and that's why we've made a media show that invests massively in Danish media. When I first came to do so in the Radical Left, you were also about to get the coffee wrong and something like that, because come on, to go from 5.6 billion. kr. to 10 billion. kr. is a big leap. And yes, I recognize that. It is a lot of money to send into Danish media all of a sudden, but if you compare it with the budgets that those who compete with the Danish content, i.e. inside the Danes' heads, have, it is very, very little. That is why we need to find a financing structure that is sustainable. And when we have then proposed that it be introduced as a kind of media tax, just as we know it with the church tax, it is to ensure some sort of popular ownership through the visible tax. I am, of course, one of those who is sorry that the licence was removed, not because I did not think it was sensible to find a way in which the widest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens, but because the licence provides a popular media co-owner who knows it is visible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200105	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær for his second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200108	Thank you. This is extremely exciting, which is why I am very much looking forward to having this debate when we present our media issue in a moment. One of the things we agree on in the understanding paper is that streaming services should contribute to Danish content production. I would like to know what the views of the Christian Democrats are on this matter. Do we in Denmark have to commit both the foreign, but also the domestic streaming services? We probably also have to contribute more to the Danish content production so that we can send some money back into the cycle from which they are currently pulling money?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200139	Yes, the question is which model we choose. I am actually most concerned about trying to find such a kind of solidarity contribution from all the media who want to participate in the media support and who then put on top of the media tax that is levied from the Danes. For those who want media support, they must also be committed to a common solidarity in order to keep this system running. It's a model we've been working on. We are, in fact, open to discussing everything. What is crucial is that more money comes in and that we strengthen Danish media, and not least that we look at it locally and regionally. For the news deserts are spreading, and so there is no one to look at the municipal decision-makers over the shoulder, and that is no good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200233	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200237	Thank you. And thanks for a good speech that also made me smarter. It is always exciting to listen to the rapporteur. So thank you for that. One of the things that I know is also important to the Christian Democrats is family policy. One might say that one of the greatest threats that in reality is to families in Denmark today is infertility, so that we simply do not have the children we want. When you look at a school class, it is one in ten who sits there who has come into the world by means of fertility treatment. There we have presented a proposal from the Conservatives proposing to double the number of insemination treatment trials, so that we go from three to six experiments. This would mean that it would not be two out of three who succeed in the treatment and bring a child into the world, but four out of five, and the price of this would be just under 40 million. kr. I would like to know whether this is a proposal which the rapporteur could sympathize with, precisely in order to satisfy the Danes' desire to have the children that one might ever wish for when one is in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200336	Yes, absolutely. And an amount of 40 million. kr. We should be able to find funding. However, the crucial point is that we can agree on what kind of funding it is at the end of the day, and that is where we have not entirely agreed on a few other proposals. So I'm just saying that as long as foreign policy doesn't go into this, we can probably be involved in funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200358	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200359	Of course, the proposal that we have come up with will also be funded in our financial legislation, and there are, of course, a number of good sources of funding so that we can find something we could agree on there. Another proposal that we have also made is to look at introducing a treatment guarantee in this area. We can see today that whatever type of fertility treatment is involved, there may be quite long waiting times for it. Up to 1 year's waiting time is not uncommon in the public sector. There we have a proposal that you should be able to go to a private clinic and get your fertility treatment instead. Many people do that today, but there is only a quite large user fee associated with it, and that means that it is really only the most wealthy who do it today. Could the rapporteur also be interested in discussing this further with the same eye in mind, namely to satisfy the families' desire to have children and to form new family communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200448	I think that what Mrs Mette Abildgaard is presenting here sounds both right and sympathetic, so we are absolutely open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200457	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200459	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a good review of the Christian Democrats' policy. I am reading out that the Christian Democrats have a brave EU policy in that it needs to be reformed, and one of the things that it says is that tax payments must be secured, and then I think: is it because the European Union is about to collect taxes from the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200534	It has already been adopted. After all, we will have to deal with the need to find own resources, as it says, in the European system. Among other things, it has to be done. pay for the recovery package that is made. Now I know that the Left was not part of it and they chose to stay out of it when we discussed this and a mandate was to be given for the joint borrowing. But we're gonna have to deal with it. How do you do that in practice? Yes, we can discuss that and we will discuss it. We already have own resources today. They already exist in the European system, but it is we who are charging them. One need not necessarily have a European institution which collects them. We are charging them ourselves under a common set of rules. However, I am very interested, and the Left has also been in the past, when we talk about taxes, that we could at least find a common tax base in European cooperation, because it could close a lot of tax gaps, but that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200650	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200651	Yeah, I'm not sure I've gotten 100 percent clever about it. Perhaps the rapporteur can clarify this a little, because it says that it is a democratic reform of the European Union. Does this mean that the Christian Democrats are in favour of federalism, in other words that it is really in the European Union that has to lead large parts of the financial policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200717	I have, of course, made, I would almost venture to claim, perhaps the most detailed reform of European cooperation, in which I have examined all the articles of the Treaty and made a proposal to that effect. It cost me the top candidate in the Left at the time, so it must be known to the Left what I have done then, because it is about the same basic ideas that apply. I have not changed my mind about that, and Mr. Kim Valentin knows that I am a super-European on this point, and federalism is, moreover, decentralizism; it is not centralism.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200803	The next brief remark is from Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200807	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am just about to say that tradition of faith was also based on literature. We can all use that. After all, we have heard the rapporteur's confession to the blue side today, but we also heard in the rapporteur's speech that there was one but. One of these men could be the text of adoption. As we have also heard before today, it is the foreign policy section that falls to the Christian Democrats. I have looked at the blue adoption text several times and simply cannot guess what of the three areas that are being described here are falling to the hearts of the Christian Democrats. Allow me to read out a few words: a strict and consistent policy on foreigners must be pursued. There should be no higher transfer income for unemployed immigrants, and more criminal foreigners must be expelled. Could the rapporteur not help me to tell me what one of the three areas is to blame for the Christian Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007200909	Yeah, I'd like that. First of all, I would like to say that this is nothing new. That is what the Left and Conservatives do; they sometimes agree with the government without asking the Christian Democrats whether we think it is a good idea. Well, that's what you do if you can find some common rifts. What is crucial for us in relation to the proposal for adoption is that it says that we must combat child poverty. We believe in the Christian Democrats that poverty benefits, including the benefits of integration, help to make people unnecessarily ill and marginalise them in society, and we believe that it is ethically wrong to make people poorer just because they come from somewhere else. It is simply a fundamental point of value policy where we recognise that there are differences, but when they are there and we can get the government on board and other parties on board that we have to combat child poverty, we do so, and we have a common agenda with at least some in relation to the Performance Commission, and I look forward to that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007201025	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and thus thanks to the Christian Democrats. Then it has become Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA's turn. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007201040	Thank you very much. I would like to start by saying to the previous rapporteur that it does not always matter that you are only one to represent a party; you can achieve a lot of results anyway. Inuit Ataqatigiit looks forward to a new parliamentary year. A lot has happened since the last time. Four parliamentary delegations have visited Greenland in recent months and we welcome the fact that it has finally become easier to travel again. It is important that we meet with our colleagues in Greenland, because here in the Danish Parliament we deal with 32 matters on behalf of Greenland, and I think that we can serve Greenland's interests better by seeing each other regularly. This helps to strengthen cooperation on matters and ensure better involvement of Greenland. One of the conclusions of the Greenland Committee's journey was that there is a need to introduce digital registration. Another obvious case was a fasttrack scheme for which IA has been fighting for almost four years. It provides easier access to foreign labour, which we also need in Greenland. The fast track system has finally entered into force here recently, and we welcome this. Interest in Greenland and the Arctic has never been greater. Interest is also a momentum for Greenland, and if we seize the opportunity, it will create positive repercussions far into our future: a stronger economy, a sustainable tourist destination and an attractive investment country. That's where we're going. Greenland has been given a new Naalaksuisoq for foreign affairs. It is Inuit Ataqatigiit's own president and chairman of the Naala Suisut who is now in charge of that post. This is welcome, and it is a good sign of greater stability and a clear framework for external investment. Inuit Ataqatigiit is also fighting to create a secure society at home. The area of justice remains a priority for Inuit Ataqatigiit, and here we would like to thank the government for its good cooperation. Over the past few years, we have managed to strengthen Greenland's police and criminal services. The police have been given more resources, and never before have there been so many municipal officials employed. It strengthens security throughout Greenland. The police have established a new unit with 13 new employees to deal only with reports of sexual abuse of children across the country. The number of reports of sexual abuse of children has increased by 33 per cent. From 2019 to 2020. This testifies to the fact that our efforts and our insistence on an open debate provide victims of abuse with the strength to report the violations they have experienced, while at the same time building up a belief that society is ready to help. It's important. The work on criminal justice will continue in the forthcoming criminal justice settlement. However, it is also worth mentioning that our agreement on recruitment and compensation for asylum officers has meant that several former employees have returned and new ones have arrived. We must continue to do this. Finally, in the area of justice, I would like to mention that we have a job ahead of us in reducing the length of proceedings in the courts in Greenland. The processing times are three times as long in Greenland as they are in Denmark. And the competences in the courts we need to strengthen over time, and we need to have a debate about the level of measure in Greenland. It is a debate that IA will initiate in the coming year. Greenland and Denmark's joint action against sexual abuse committed on children in Greenland is a big and pioneering step in the fight for a better child life for the most vulnerable children in Greenland. So thank you for that. But the 80 million. kr., which has been allocated to the work, primarily covers a treatment need, and at best it is an emergency help. More preventive action is still lacking. Too many cases in the police are being settled because of lack of evidence, and far too many video interviews of children in a vulnerable situation need to be done better than we do today. Inuit Ataqatigiit will therefore work to establish children's houses in selected Greenlandic cities for a trial period. Another area on which we will focus in the coming year is the many unhappy suicides in Greenland. It is a very sensitive area, but also an area like the sexual abuse that needs to be discussed openly. It is in itself preventive. In Greenland we have one of the highest suicide rates in the world. When I was young, I went to the funeral of friends. Today it is my children who help bury their friends. That must and must be changed. I know that suicide is not a matter that is discussed very much here in the Folketing, and some might ask what it actually concerns the Danish members of the Folketing. But it does. Last year alone, Greenland's police received 1,200 suicide threats. This is a sharp increase compared to previous years, and every year 40-50 people commit suicide in Greenland. And it should be borne in mind that it is a population with only 56,000 people. It's violent, and it's violent numbers. In addition, we in the Danish Parliament are responsible for the arms legislation at home in Greenland. Weapons are readily available in virtually every home in Greenland. This is a large part and an important part of the catch culture that we have in Greenland. Before the Inatsisartut election in April at home in Greenland was an update of the arms legislation on the drawing board. Security of weapons can help make a difference in terms of reducing wet-shot accidents and reducing suicides. It is important that people with knowledge and experience have access to weapons. An update of weapons legislation is recommended by Greenland's police and will also be discussed at IA with the organisation for fishermen and hunters. Now I'm getting a little touched by it. We would, of course, call for the debate on arms legislation to take place respectfully and constructively, as hunting and catching are a healthy and important part of Greenland's culture. However, it is also important that we ensure at the same time that the legislation does not allow lax storage of weapons. Greenland plays an increasingly important role in its own foreign policy matters. Greenland first talks to the Arctic Council's ministerial meetings and signs resolutions on behalf of the Kingdom Community, and on Monday a new agreement was reached on a Contact Committee to ensure that Greenland and the Faroe Islands receive more and faster knowledge of confidential and crucial information on foreign and security policy matters. All of this is part of a really important development towards a more equal cooperation, where Greenland is much more involved in making decisions about ourselves. In the Arctic parliamentarians' committee, where I am chairing, I also see that there is clearly an increased interest in the Arctic. Recently, I took part in a debate with the Norwegian and Finnish Foreign Ministers on cooperation in the Arctic in the future. This means that Greenland and the Arctic are more representative of themselves, and it is important now that interest is so high. However, we also know that with increased interest there is also increased potential for conflict, and that is why cooperation in the Arctic region is so important to us. Inuit Ataqatigiit decided at our national meeting not long ago that our focus is on low voltage and not on demilitarisation, which many of you have probably heard discussed. It is difficult to achieve demilitarisation when there is increased militarisation around us, in the countries around the Arctic. Towards a future defence settlement, we will focus on further strengthening surveillance in and around Greenland, and in the same spirit as there was in the Arctic capacity package, namely to promote peace and low-voltage, we will focus on precisely strengthening monitoring. A better monitoring picture of the situation is crucial. It is a clear demand on our part that we sit in the conciliation, represent Greenland and ensure that Greenland's interests are safeguarded. With that I would like to thank you for the floor. I look forward to the coming parliamentary year and look forward to the debate. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and first of all it is from Mr Beazley's report. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202037	Thank you. I have two questions, one with low-voltage and the other with regard to arms legislation. Well, I don't know the liberal extension of arms law in Greenland. What initiatives could Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen want to see taken from here in relation to handling weapons better? The second question is, isn't the time running out of this thing to keep a low-strung level with the activity that's already there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202118	Yes, thank you. In concrete terms, I would like to see arms secured so that the weapons were, as it were, locked off, not necessarily in an expensive locker, but with a rather cheap solution that one can get so that one can ensure that a weapon, for example. Can't shoot. We can buy a rather cheap solution for that; it is something that costs 150 kroner, so I think we can afford to demand that. The second is to ensure that there is an age limit so that very young children do not suffer. And I also experienced that a neighbour had a tragic accident, and it was like a black cloud over the family that there had been this wet-shot accident as part of childhood. Because there are actually very many victims in such a case. Compared to the other with low voltage, it is a complex area. I do not know if I have the time to reply to that, but I hope that the rapporteur will put the question on it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202217	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202219	It's done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202223	Yes, thank you. There is a need to do everything we can to ensure peace in Greenland. We have signed an Ilulissat agreement more than ten years ago, which is about the fact that all eight Arctic countries want peace in the region, and I actually believe that this is a model of compliance; that we can work together. And I actually think it's realistic to keep low voltage in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202252	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202255	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. You always get a little smarter. I would also like to learn a little more about what opportunities we actually have. Greenland could learn from Denmark, Denmark might also help Greenland in relation to the green transition. What is the potential for development that we have not yet grasped? I remember myself, and it is years ago now, that as Minister for Education and Research I had a lot to do with the Centre for Arctic Technology in Sisimiut, which has a lot of fantastic exchange opportunities. It can be both the field of education and research, but perhaps also more and more in relation to the position Greenland has in terms of development and business opportunities in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202346	Thank you for the question. First of all, I think there are some good initiatives at home in Greenland which have just been said: we do not want oil extraction in Greenland. We want more hydropower, for example. But something that I also find quite interesting is an initiative that we have helped finance, and it is FabLab, which is a laboratory where innovative solutions can be developed in Sisimiut as part of the fact that the institutions that already exist. I find this extremely interesting, and I also know that there is some study going on in relation to how we can create buildings that are similar to those of an Arctic climate. It could be super interesting that Greenland not only became such a showcase in relation to climate change, but also in relation to some of the solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202431	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202432	Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about. I think that we have a task to do in fact to show both what opportunities there are and that Greenland can act as a demonstration, a showcase, as the rapporteur says, but also as a demonstration of new ideas and new solutions in this area. It could be green construction, but also other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202458	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I really would like us to create that link, including between research and business development. So there are some options where we have to invent solutions, in fact, which we do not have today. Then Greenland could also be a really interesting place. But I also know that such things as data centres are also being considered where we have some advantages over the cold that is in Greenland. So I see really great potentials in the green business development area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202526	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202529	Thank you very much for an excellent speech, which also outlined many of the challenges that are in Greenland today. So, there is no doubt that Greenland has come very, very far, but there is still some way to go. One of the things I note that the rapporteur has been dwelling on for a long time, and which is really exciting, I think, is that the government has already helped with some 80 million. kr. to deal with cases, especially in children's cases. And the rapporteur also mentions one thing, namely the establishment of children's houses. Can the rapporteur give us a few more words on how we might be able to help each other to improve both in the field of procedure, of course, but also perhaps put a few more words on how children's houses could be a gain in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202617-2	Thank you very much, and also thank you for your good cooperation, by the way. I would like to start by saying that I am hammer proud to come from Greenland. And I usually say that I think it is a huge privilege to come from a country where we are just not very many and where you can really help make a difference. It is something that is really instilled in us when you come from Greenland. And yes, the children's houses are both Danish authorities, the police and the judiciary, and then the Greenlandic authorities, social services, health services, which I believe should work together and have a framework for strengthening efforts, so that professionally you have the interdisciplinary cooperation, and that the child and family should only go somewhere. Then it can strengthen the effort in relation to these sexual assaults. And I think this is so crucial, because you can actually see a connection between sexual abuse and suicide, that is, if we resolve the prevention, it will also have a positive effect elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202716	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202717	Thank you for your answer. I also think that the government has proved several times that it would very much like to cooperate in all sorts of different areas that are now coming to Greenland. I would just like to say that I love it when the rapporteur says at home in Greenland. There is always something incredibly nice about the word at home in Greenland. And that sounds very familiar to me when you think about your own homeland. Another issue that I hope is in order for the rapporteur I am just touching on is something that the rapporteur did not mention so much, but it is an area such as the environment and green conversion. And this is one of the areas where Greenland has a very, very great potential. How does the rapporteur think we will be able to help each other to meet these very, very great potentials of the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202801-2	Thank you very much. I think that where we can cooperate best, perhaps in reality, is in the field of research. And I also know that some negotiations are under way in this area, and we have helped to secure money for a centre that looks both at climate and at what it means for foreign policy, but also looks at security policy in particular: is there anything that we can learn from? I think it might be interesting to elaborate on this, so that it is not only American investors who show an interest in investing in research, but that Denmark also comes into play even more in relation to research in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202837	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202842	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech with a great many good points, in which we fully share the view that something needs to be done about this, particularly with some of the acute problems in the judiciary. On our trip to Greenland, which we finally came on, we experienced for example. what the rapporteur said, namely that the digital registration in Greenland is still going on in the same way as before the computer was invented, even though it is the Danish state that is responsible for it and is fully completed with the digitalisation in Denmark. So there I think we should jointly call on the Minister of Justice to take a look at this as soon as possible. I would like to ask about a perhaps a little sore toe, but which is an area that I think it is a pity that we did not make any progress, and this is the emergency training. We also visited Arctic Command, which would really like more locals to come in and be able to help solve the tasks because of the skills they also have. How does the rapporteur see the possibility that we can get such an education up and running, even if Greenland is to be better able to cope with this area itself if you want to take it home someday?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007202948	Thank you for your question and also thank you for your cooperation. In relation to digital registration, it is so clear that of course we have to solve it in Greenland, and especially when you see the archive that is in Greenland's justice system. Well, unfortunately, it also speaks into this inequality that I sometimes feel, or the lack of equality between Greenland and Denmark, so that it takes so long for it to be updated in Greenland. So we need to focus on that. I think we can find a solution to this, and at least in my own party I hear that there is support for finding a solution in relation to Kangerlussuaq, and here I believe that emergency training is absolutely central, and I also know that the municipality of Qeqqata, where Kangerlussuaq is located, is concerned. So I'm kind of confident. But it is the case that Greenland would like to make its own foreign policy strategy before making the kingdom's Arctic strategy. So I think we have to respect and wait for that, and that is where I think we are going to deal with emergency training and military service.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203055	Thank you. There is a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203059	Thank you so much. I am glad to hear that, because I really think it makes sense, and I am glad that there is a process in which it may finally fall into line, so thank you for the positive tones. Then I'll ask you a little more about this justice thing. Because it's not just registration, as there are problems with it, it's a bit across the IT systems of the justice system in Greenland. I do not know whether the rapporteur can say a little more about that and about her thoughts, about how we can move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203123	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203124	Thank you. I know that this is a problem that we also share with the Faroe Islands, where there are also very great challenges with the IT system, both with the police, but also in the courts and, in fact, also with the criminal services. So again: we need to ensure that there is better access to IT, because it is so important a prerequisite for being able to work effectively and to ensure that the processing time in the courts is also reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203150	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203154	Thank you, and thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a very deep speech, also in relation to this whole issue of suicide. I think it gives a lot of thought. One thing, of course, is the whole control of arms, but I also think that there are underlying reasons which need to be discussed, including political ones. One of the things I would like to ask was that during WorldPride in Copenhagen I had the pleasure of meeting a group of lgbti activists with the rapporteur, and this is a topic that is being discussed, also in terms of well-being, here in Denmark, this is a topic we have addressed in the Nordic Council also to ensure, not only equality, but also that there is a well-being among lgbti people, where you see especially loneliness and unfortunately also higher rates of suicide attempts, etc. I would like to know whether the rapporteur also sees that this is an area in which we, together, Denmark and Greenland, could carry out the task of making life better for all people, including the Glbti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203301	Thank you and thank you for the question. I find that fortunately it goes the right way in relation to social acceptance, that is to say that you can have another sexuality and that you can have a different identity in reality in Greenland, so it is right, really positive. I remember that there are, and in fact there are still, hate crimes, and we are not good enough to register it with, for example. The police and, in this way, be aware of it, so we need to ensure that we get some figures on it, that we ensure that the legislation is also in place, so that when there is discrimination because of one's sexual orientation, it is also something that we have a second paragraph that can help to correct it, because that is just not right. Then I would say that my daughter has a female boyfriend, so I have also experienced it privately, and it has also challenged me a little as a mother, in terms of whether I have a language that is respectful enough to my daughter, and I myself have a perception that is broad enough to accommodate the thoughts and considerations that there are. I think that is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203415	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203416	Thank you for your answer, and not least that the rapporteur points to an area which is quite the same challenge in Denmark as in Greenland, precisely to register hate crimes, for example, well enough, because we are not doing so here either. So it's an obvious opportunity to figure out how to do things better together. But it is actually a call for us to take this matter seriously across the board. I know that this area has been largely reclaimed, but that is why we still have away, also as a Kingdom Community and joint in the Nordic Council, a task of raising the agenda for the well-being of people with disabilities in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203455	Thank you. There is no doubt about that at all, and we have also asked a number of questions to relevant ministers, including about the issue of getting help, if you like. want to change sex, because you have to go to Denmark, and you actually have to move to Denmark for help. So there are some border barriers that we have not been aware of in the past, but which we have addressed and which we will continue to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203518	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203524	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech that came around many things in and around Greenland. A few weeks ago, the two of us were with the Foreign Policy Name in Greenland, and there we had the opportunity to talk to many of the rapporteur's party colleagues because they are now in power. We were also given the opportunity to talk to Muté B. Egede, who is the chairman of the national government, and at the same time we also talked to Naalakkersuisoq for finance, and there we talked about the government base, the government base of IA, and it was very, very narrow. It was about many of these soft areas that were not so much around, for example. We were told that Naalakkersuisoq for profession, Pele Broberg, was preparing a business strategy. What does the rapporteur see in this strategy? After all, fishing is a very, very serious area in relation to your exports, and that is why special arrangements have now been made with regard to brexit, so what is the point of this strategy, which, I think, may be lacking in the governing body of the IA?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203628	Thank you very much. I would like to agree with the rapporteur that we certainly need a strategy for business policy, just as we need a direction. That is absolutely, absolutely crucial. And I think that if you look at my previous rapporteurship speeches, you can see how much I have talked about business development. This, together with education, is so crucial for Greenland's development. I think we will see that fishing must also be developed, because we are a fishing nation. But I also think that we are going to see some more tourism. That is also why, among other things, we are going to see more tourism. points to the branding of Greenland as part of our finance negotiations and that you will also see mining, because despite the fact that we have said no to uranium, we say such a great yes to mining in Greenland, but we must try to find a balance there. We have a very special climate and a very special environment in Greenland, which we must, of course, help protect, and I would say that the whole principle of sustainability may in fact have been invented in Greenland, where we need to think a few generations forward to ensure that we maintain nature properly for future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203735	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203737	Thank you. The rapporteur also mentioned the Arctic capacity package, which we made in February in close cooperation between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. As the rapporteur also said, there is a great deal in this capacity package about the enforcement of sovereignty, but there is also something else in it, namely this defence training, which is also the case, Mr President. Christoffer Aagaard Melson asked about before. This is how we were also in Kangerlussuaq, and we tried to talk to Arctic Command about how it was supposed to be. What is the rapporteur's view of military training in Greenland and how will it be carried out if it is the case that one's government partner, Naleraq, is not so interested in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203821	Thank you. At any rate, I know that this issue of Kangerlussuaq and emergency training is a matter of concern to many of the members of the IA, and then we have to find some sort of solution. And I think it is a little overlooked that in the agreement on the Arctic capacity package itself it has been said that it is up to Naalaksusususut to point out how we can knit it together, for it is such a stretched hand to naalaksususut and to Greenland, in relation to how it should be knitted together. So I actually see some good behavior in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203854	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203857	First of all, we in the SF look forward to a new parliamentary year with close cooperation with Inuit Ataqatigiit. It was in every way good for Greenland to have a change of government. After all, IA has this red story, and the red part of the policy is well known, but what is interesting here is that IA, if you may say so, has practically sprang out as Greenland's green party and has said that you want to associate with the Paris Agreement. Could Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen just give an update on where you are in the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007203935	Thank you. What is being reported is that it will cost approx. 13 million kr. For Greenland to accede to the Paris Agreement, and I think it is important that you see it not only as an expense, but also as an opportunity for Greenland. Right now, we are in the category of a large number of countries with which we do not identify, among others. Turkey, which has only just acceded to the Paris Agreement. So there is no doubt, at least if you ask the rapporteur that we should accede to the Paris Agreement, and despite the fact that we have just said no to oil extraction in Greenland and we just want more hydropower, it is absolutely fundamental that we also ensure that we take global responsibility. So I think it's about seeing the possibilities, also in relation to green investment in business development in Greenland, i.e. to see it as an opportunity. It is so obvious that when we live in nature and around nature and have a saying that nature is the only boss, we also take our share of responsibility. So if you ask the rapporteur, I would say that we must certainly accede to the Paris Agreement and then we must find some solutions to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204041	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204042	Former Naalakkersuisoq for Foreign Affairs Pele Broberg has made some statements about having such a special ethnic profile in order to be able to take part in decisive votes and, to that extent, also debates about the important things about Greenland's future. So, this special quota system, in relation to how one would apparently be genetically associated with the indigenous population of Greenland, I think that is both flat-headed and populist. It is a policy that I would call almost extremist national conservative, but what does the rapporteur think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204117	Thank you. The rapporteur, like a large majority in Greenlandic policy, thinks that it does not belong anywhere. Everyone in Greenland must have the opportunity to vote if there is a vote on something. That is how democracy is, and I believe that we must also respect the fact that there are people who have chosen to spend a large part of their working lives contributing to society, perhaps half of their lives. There are also people in my family who have a Danish background, and we must respect that, that is to say that we are contributing to society and that, of course, we are also part of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204152	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204154	Thank you. Congratulations on the decision to work for the Paris Agreement. It will be very good to get Greenland there. But congratulations also on the new central role in international issues. The last few years have shown that it was not cut in stone, that it should be a Danish minister who should sit at the end of the table in a lot of questions, and I think it is very good that Greenland has fought to get more influence now. I hope you get much, much more influence. I think that low-voltage thing is one of the most important things. The Ilulissat Declaration must be defended with arms and legs and with every possible talk where we can get to it with others. I hope that the North could stand together and fight for it when the big states are indifferent and want to arm around the Arctic. And there I think that Greenland can play a central role if we ally ourselves in the Nordic countries in particular and not just settle for just like our government here in Denmark to say that we have to walk and traverse the ass of the United States. I think we should try to set that as a common objective so that we can maintain the low-voltage requirements of the Ilulissat Declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204302	Thank you. I have to take action against language, that is not right. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204307	Thank you and thank you for the question. I hear this as a general comment and a question about what is happening in foreign policy. I think that the elephant in space is also a little Russia when we talk about the Arctic Council. I think it is a good idea to help ensure that there is good cooperation with Russia, and to help ensure that there is peace and low-voltage. The initiatives we are looking at in the military field by Russia are, of course, primarily defensive, but something that we are following very, very closely, because it is something that concerns people in Greenland that a fighter plane can reach northern Greenland. This is not something we look at with mild eyes. But I think that the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark is better than if it were, for example. are the Americans who arm themselves militarily in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204400	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204402	Thank you. There are two things. Greenland has a major task with the economy, but Greenland also has a very good politician at the financial post, namely Asii Chemnitz Narup, and I could see that she said that up to 55%. of the budget she is to lay down for next year comes from Copenhagen and that in principle it is a stone around the leg of Greenland. The day when you can deliver the whole economy yourself will be a good day. I would like to hear: how do you get there and how do you do it without the country becoming less equal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204444	Thank you for the question. It's hard to answer in 30 seconds, but I definitely think that this thing about having a stronger business profile and effort is absolutely, absolutely crucial. But I also see that this is something that is going to take a really, very long time, and I also think it is important that things develop over time. I would like to see more sustainable fishing. We know that MSC labelling offers a better price than if we overfish, for example. So we really have to make some wise decisions and get to work on business development, because that is absolutely, absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204518	The next brief remark is to Mrs Christina Thorholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204521	Thank you. Great respect for the rapporteur for addressing the social problems of a large number of sexual abuse and the high suicide rate. Greenland's home government has, of course, taken the social field home, which is why it is important for me, as a new rapporteur in the social and family field, to hear how we in the Danish Parliament can support the challenges that you have in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204602	Thank you very much. I also think that the question bears witness to the fact that this is not something we can just take for granted, but something that requires good cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. So thank you for that and, by the way, welcome to Parliament as a new member. I think that there are many different NGOs who work with and have a great deal of knowledge on different matters, and among other things. Children, Young & Grief has a lot of knowledge about grief and wants to establish a grief line at home in Greenland. This is one of the things we are considering, i.e. whether it could help to prevent suicide. We have a suicide line in Greenland ourselves, but with a grief line for the survivors there could be an opportunity for them to turn somewhere. Those are at least some of the thoughts we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204653	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204654	The rapporteur also mentioned before that it was mainly for the treatment efforts that had been given money from Denmark and that more emphasis could be placed on preventive action. I am well aware that Children, Young & Sorg is a prevention effort, but are there other prevention efforts that could strengthen the well-being of children and young people with Danish contributions?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204717	Thank you. As long as more sexual abuse is committed than we can treat, we are always behind, and so it has been a mantra. We need to think about the very early efforts, and that is just as much a message home to Greenland, because Greenland is responsible for the social area. But the early effort will be perfectly obvious to look at. And we believe that the effort with children's houses is too inadequate in relation to the efforts that we have set in motion jointly between Greenland and Denmark. So that is exactly what we want to point to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204749	Thank you. I'm gonna ask the people who talk in Grebningen to slow down or pull in next door. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204757	Thank you. I think it was a very good speech and I think I can say that I do not think there was a single person in the Chamber who thought it was irrelevant to hear about the suicide rates in Greenland, the deeply serious problem that I am very pleased with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has addressed, and it is certainly also relevant to address here in the Danish Parliament. So thank you for that. I would like to ask you about the possibilities of being tested for military service in Greenland. This was something we discussed a great deal up to the last defence settlement, where Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen herself was very active in pushing for it to be possible to hold some kind of session, one might say, in Greenland. And it is really important that we get more people to serve in the Danish defence, because it is incredibly important that the Danish defence, which operates a lot in Greenland and has tasks of monitoring and defending sovereignty, is not perceived as a foreign power, but that the Greenlanders can become part of it. So what can we do to get it started again, and does IA also support home in Greenland that it gets started again?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204904	Thank you very much. It makes very good sense that there are more people with Greenlandic background who serve as military service. There are already a lot of people who have taken a defensive training, there are many who were really sorry that you no longer had this test in Greenland. I know that there have been some challenges in relation to corona, and there has also been low registration for a year, in 2019, but the need to look ahead and see how we can make it easy to volunteer military service when you have Greenlandic background, IA is quite open to discussing, and I know that this is something that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security in Greenland should discuss when it comes to making this foreign policy strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204950	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007204952	Yes, what just puzzles me is that what we are told is that the national government has wanted the testing of the Guard to stop in Greenland, and I think it is extremely disappointing if the national government opposes the possibility of Greenlanders serving in the Danish defence. Both because it is very good for the cohesion of the Kingdom community, but also because it is a very good opportunity for young Greenlanders to get a good education, for example. can be trained sailor or something else that you can use civilian afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205028	Thank you. There have been many discussions in Greenland since Naalaksuisut arrived, and some of this has been controversial. In fact, there has just been a debate in Inatsisartut, where many people were very angry that there was precisely not the same opportunity to serve as military service. So I see that there is a large political majority in Greenland who wants to find a solution in this area. So we have to respect the fact that it is home in Greenland that we have to discuss it, but I see that as being quite open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205102	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205106	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would also like to ask about the social area which Greenland has taken home. In Denmark, we have an obligation to notify, and professionals have an increased obligation to notify. I would like to hear the rapporteur's view that the obligation to inform people in Denmark does not cross the Community. What is the rapporteur's position on this: does the rapporteur also want Denmark to be able to inform Greenland if you become aware of anything, for example? that there is someone from Greenland who is resident in Denmark but who has smaller siblings in Greenland, and you can inform the Greenlandic authorities? I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205152	Thank you for the question. I know that D.R. Detector has taken up this case. I was also contacted, and this was actually the first time I heard that there was no possibility of being informed in this way. I think it makes a great deal of sense, and I would like to report it as a barrier within the Kingdom community, because I believe that this is something that Greenlandic and Danish authorities need to talk about and find a good pragmatic solution to. Because there is a concern for a child, regardless of the cross-border nature of it, we need to find some solution so that we can take that concern seriously and deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205229	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205231	Thank you. I would like to sign that you take this seriously, given that it must of course be the case that if you are worried about something, and you know that Greenland has massive challenges in terms of care failure and also sexual abuse, and if there is a barrier, in relation to the authorities being able to inform, so that you can take action with help and support for children and families, so that there is something that prevents it, then you are working to ensure that it is not an obstacle anymore. So I look forward to what will come of that cooperation if it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205305	Thank you very much. In any case, we would like to do our part to ensure that a good solution is found, and I would like to do so as soon as possible. I am also talking about many of these social challenges, and I would like to say that I think it is important to remember that there are very, very many children in Greenland who have a very good childhood, so that you get a more nuanced picture of it. It is of course the vast majority of children in Greenland who have a good childhood, and then there is another group, and I have chosen such strategically over the years as to take up one topic and give it time to put some effort in motion, and that is why first it was sexual assault, and now it is suicide, but it is because I also see that there is a connection between the two things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205346	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, who is being asked to stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007205412	Denmark can do more. I think that the Prime Minister's headline "Denmark can more" is a good headline, because precisely the statement that Denmark can more, gives optimism, and that means that Denmark also in relation to those I represent can more. It's a good headline for everyone in the realm, and it makes you think about the opportunities it gives us in the northern part of the Danish realm. Because if Denmark can do more, it should also be possible to do more for the Greenlandic minority in Danish society. I would like to tell you a little bit about a family that I have recently been in contact with, a small family that has recently moved to Odense Municipality. Let's call them Nina and Jens... just bought an apartment with room for their little family. Jens is a faithful and stable truck driver, and Nina is in education but has during this period chosen to be home with the child. The family has dreams of a larger house and a family enlargement in the future, and today the young Greenlandic couple must have a simple but well-functioning working class family life to hang together. But the family dream should not remain like this, because one day it knocked on the door, and imagine how shocked Nina and Jens became when they found out that the municipality would take the most precious thing they have: their little son. It turned out that people had complained about Nina because she was too quiet in teaching, which in the municipality had also been assessed as harmful to the child's best interests. The couple were counseled to allow the child to be placed voluntarily, for other things would be considered difficult to cooperate with. According to the municipality, parents would have less right to see their child in the future. In addition, the couple had to be tested for their intelligence; a test intended for Danish language, despite the fact that the couple's mother tongue is Greenlandic. The intelligence test, which is part of the study, is based on the fact that you have a Danish mother tongue • not only linguistic but also culturally. Consider how you would feel if you had to take such a test in Greenlandic; if you as a parent had to be judged on whether you were too loud, which you would see with Greenlandic glasses as harmful to the child's best interests. Nina and Jens's history is not alone, because unfortunately I have received an overwhelming number of inquiries from Greenlandic families in Denmark. They feel powerless and find it difficult to get through to the Danish system, and one of the stories that really came through was from a female Greenlandic lawyer. She told me that she had exactly the same experience with the municipality as Nina and Jens. She explained to me that she was convinced to be able to document an unbiased procedure on the part of the municipality, where it was also made clear that if it were not for her legal background in Denmark and her understanding of fair trial, her child would also have been placed. It must be made quite clear that I sincerely believe that children should, however, in the case of Greenlandic children, it is also important that they do not cause more pain to the child by also removing the identity from them. The Prime Minister calls himself the Prime Minister of the children, which is why it is also important for the ministers to keep in mind that if placements are to be to ensure the child's best interests, one must also ensure that Greenlandic children have the opportunity to grow up with Greenlandic background, culture and language. It is very serious that Danish citizens with a Greenlandic background experience systematic unfair treatment and unfair trial • contrary to some of the most important principles of a rule of law. It is said that by law land must be built, and of course the law must also reflect the society that the country represents, which brings me to the next subject: Parliament's legislative areas for Greenland. For here, too, there is a democratic deficit in the parliamentary process. Now we start on the third parliamentary year since the last election, and although I am not new at Christiansborg, it is only 2 years since I was elected as an elected representative. I have been able to observe many different methods of political work, and I think that some of my colleagues can be thorough and seek-out in their respective committees, and yet my experience of engagement in the Greenland Committee has been that it has generally been low. I used to think that it was absurd, but after further consideration I realized that it is also very much about lack of knowledge of what measures are desired and prioritised by Greenland with the 36 responsibilities that Denmark carries out. Because if the law is to be able to build the society to which it is written, it is essential that it is also supported by the population living in that society. Therefore, to some extent it is understandable that people who have chosen 3,000 km away from Greenland do not have the slightest idea of what legal measures are needed in the country. It is therefore important that the parliament in Greenland, which represents all the democratically elected parties, also has an influence on how the legislative work in the Folketing is designed. For despite the fact that Greenland has its own parliament represented by five parties, only two members of parliament from two very different parties represent Greenland's wishes in the Folketing. And that leads to a democratic deficit. The Self-Government Act describes cooperation between the two governments in Greenland and Denmark, but nothing about cooperation directly between the parliaments The Folketing and Inatsisartut in relation to their legal work. As a result, governments have a greater influence on the legislation in force, while the influence of the legislative powers is reduced in the process. For this reason, Siumut has a concrete solution: we want to set up a parliamentary council in Inatsisartut. The Parliamentary Council shall be an advisory body in Inatsisartut, which shall be included in the work of the Folketing in relation to Greenland, and shall consist of Inatsisartut members, preferably from each party, and shall have the two members of the Greenland Parliament as observers. The Parliamentary Council must be based on the central principles of promoting the interests of the Greenlandic people in the parliamentary work undertaken by Denmark, and the Council must follow the work of the State of Denmark and ensure that Denmark complies with its obligations to Greenland. In addition, the Council must have regular contact with the Greenland Committee to ensure that Inatsisartut's requests for possible changes in legislation are heard, understood and collaborated on how the Council can contact Naalaksususut and the Greenland Committee can contact the Government regarding the wishes. In this way, we can better ensure that all parties are heard throughout the legislative work, as well as that we can help to ensure that more legislative proposals and ideas are put forward for the Greenland Committee in the light of the wishes of Inatsisartut. I have now presented a few times the idea of a Parliamentary Council from Parliament's platform with the aim of ensuring a more democratic legislative process between Greenland and Denmark, and in this parliamentary year we must make it possible. We Kalaaleq, the people of Greenland, were recognised as a people back in 2009, and with recognition comes a responsibility for the state to ensure that, with the cohesion of all the citizens of Greenland, we also take a further democratic part in the decision-making process for our country. It is also important that citizens who have their starting point in Greenland and who stay in Denmark during those periods should be guaranteed equal opportunities for a fair trial and a dignified procedure guaranteed. Fortunately, the majority of Greenlandic citizens who choose to settle in Denmark for a short or longer period of time are well-functioning. But far too many find it difficult to find a foothold in society as a whole and in the labour market in particular, and this is mainly due to linguistic and cultural differences where Greenlandic citizens are lost in the system. Denmark can be Denmark must And with those words I wish my colleagues in the Danish Parliament good work ethic and a good parliamentary year. Thank you for the word "qujanaq."
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210346	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210352	Nowadays, all people have recognized the link between the burning of fossil fuels and the dramatic consequences for climate, environment and nature. A few places in the world it is probably more obvious than in Greenland, which is why I think it is amazing that Naala Suisut has now decided to stop the search for oil. I'm a little more in doubt about Siumut's location in it. Does Siumut support stopping the search for oil in Greenland where the most dramatic consequences of climate change have been identified?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210422	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210424	First of all, it must be said that Siumut has helped to create the initiatives which are now being pursued by Naala Suisut, among other things. hydroelectric power stations and a number of other green initiatives that ensure a more sustainable Greenland. But when we get to the extraction of raw materials and oil, Siumut has also been aware that we have to take care not to harm nature. A concern, however, may be what we do afterwards, because we have seen some countries that end up importing more oil elsewhere from where it may not be appropriate either, but we clearly support the idea that it should not go beyond our nature. We think it is really bad to want a policy where you only say yes and no. So we want Naala Suisut to come up with concrete proposals that we would like to discuss, and hopefully we will come to an agreement on what is best for Greenlandic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210524	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210526	That was a long, slightly unclear answer. I'm just asking, does Siumut go in to stop the search for oil? I understand you have to look after nature, but that's not just what I asked. I asked about the consequences for the climate, because it is not just about whether accidents can happen when looking for oil, but about the burning of fossil fuels. And the current Naala Suisut has just stopped the search, so I just ask again: does Siumut support stopping the search for oil in the place in the world where the consequences of burning oil, for example, have great consequences? I understand that this is a dilemma in relation to other countries, but please try to respond a little more specifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210601	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210603	I think the answer is quite specific when we say that we need to look at how best to ensure that it is related to both the economy and society, and how we ensure that we do not just start extracting more in other countries. We think it is really important that we start discussing more concrete measures, including those from the Naala Suisut, which immediately come up with ultimate proposals. So when we say that we do not just want to say yes or no to some initiatives, it is because we want to discuss how and how exactly these measures will have an effect on Greenland and the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210640	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210643	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a once again exciting speech from Greenland with some exciting perspectives on how we can develop the Kingdom Community and the cooperation that is now between Denmark and Greenland. One of the areas identified by the rapporteur, which is also very exciting, is, of course, one of them. the Greenlandic minority here in Denmark, and there is no doubt that this is something for which we all have a responsibility, and I know that the rapporteur has worked to raise awareness in the area of socially vulnerable Greenlanders and Greenlandic children in Denmark. The rapporteur has also, together with the government, among other things. get some money set aside to investigate and illuminate this area. How does the rapporteur think that work can be done on this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210734	Thank you for the question. I will first sign for good cooperation, and I also think it is important that we talk about some sort of balance. When Greenlandic citizens go to Denmark, there is also no form of integration process, precisely because one is regarded as Danish citizens, even though under international law we are recognised as a people with a language and a culture and way of being. So I also think it is important to take care that there may be some other ways in which we need to act in relation to the case management in relation to municipalities, in relation to how we also ensure that people can follow the processes of the administration that happens when you come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210819	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210822	Thank you. The rapporteur also points out a little further to what we are discussing here: Greenlandic citizens, i.e. Danish citizens, when they come to Denmark, find it difficult to find a foothold on the Danish labour market and point out that there are some cultural challenges. Can the rapporteur elaborate on what kind of cultural challenges there may be, other than language? Because it is obvious that there is a linguistic problem, but can there also be other things than the linguistic problem in relation to a foothold in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210851	I also think it is important to take note of the fact that we need to combat some of the prejudices that a number of Greenlanders encounter when they come to Denmark, and one of the things that can also be a challenge is precisely language and culture. When we are in Greenland, we think it is respectful to be quiet and responsive, but when you do the same in Denmark, you can be called autist. I myself have been called anautist, I myself have been accused of some things, and a lot of other people of Greenlandic origin in Denmark have also been accused of being bad parents, and these are also things that we have to deal with. Because, of course, there may be some of these things that are right, but there may also be some things that are not entirely connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210943	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007210946	Thank you so much for an inspiring speech. The reason I am taking the floor is, of course, that in the Danish Parliament's Committee on Children's and Education, of which I am chairman, in mid-September we had the pleasure of travelling to Greenland to learn more about Greenlandic schools and Greenlandic young people, but also how we can get better at meeting across. We had the pleasure of visiting the high school in Nuuk, we had the pleasure of visiting the public schools in Nuuk, and we also had the pleasure of visiting a small village 2 hours sailing from Nuuk, where there were three pupils in the school and where they had one teacher. And when you stand out there in the village, you really get the feeling that it can be really far from Denmark to Greenland, and I also got the feeling that we simply meet too little in the kingdom community. There is simply too little knowledge among Danish children and young people in relation to Greenlandic children and young people. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur shares that view and whether the rapporteur has any ideas on how to improve the ability to meet across borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211057	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211058	First of all, thank you for the question, and thank you for the rapporteur's great commitment to Greenlandic affairs. When we talk about the knowledge-building that we need to create, and the understanding, the brotherhood that has to become, you can call it upgraded in the kingdom, I also think it is important to point out that part of us from Greenland are raised to know everything about the Danish language, the Danish culture, the Danish king and queen and food etc., and that there is therefore an imbalance when you come to Denmark and you are asked as one of the first whether you live igloos. So I agree with the rapporteur that something more has to be done to keep this brotherhood, believing that whatever happens in the future, regardless of independence, we will also have each other as our closest allies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211157	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211200	I fully agree with the rapporteur that it goes both ways with the two partners. It is both very important that Denmark makes an effort and it is important that Greenland makes an effort. Now the field of education has returned to Greenland, but I would like to ask the rapporteur quite specifically: does the rapporteur see any initiatives, for example. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. could take part in the Parliamentary Committee on Children's and Education, to promote it in relation to the challenge, if you may say so, and also the joy that you can meet across the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211233	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211234	Yes, I think there is something that the Folketing and Greenlandic politicians in particular can work together on, and I believe that such a parliamentary council, which was also presented today, can be very relevant to this work. Because it is not only the Greenland Committee that ends up working on the areas that concern Greenland, with 36 responsibilities ending up in different kinds of committee work, among other things. in the Children's Committee here in the Folketing. And with a parliamentary council, we can also ensure that all five parties from the Greenland Parliament are heard in these resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211316	Thank you. The next brief remark comes from Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211320	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, which I also found very, very interesting. I fully agree with this need for a closer conversation and dialogue in everyday life and a more formalised dialogue, and I also experience that there are some things where both the Folketing and Inatsisartut are not fully aware of where the cuts lie, and we simply need to talk about that if we are to solve the problems. So this is a very good proposal, which I look forward to hearing more about and working on. In relation to the second issue which the rapporteur raised with the conditions of Greenlandic families in Denmark, it is of course water on our mill, one might say. We have also been working on the fact that it should first of all be about improving the quality of the procedure rather than perhaps necessarily having an objective of how many placements there should be or such. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur could perhaps elaborate a little more on what she sees in concrete terms, that we could strengthen this knowledge of the special situation of Greenlandic families in the Danish social system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211419	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211421	The UN has also made a declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples, and Article 8 also points out that indigenous peoples and individuals have a right not to be subjected to forced assimilation or destruction of their culture, and that is why I say that, if there is a need for housing and a child is better aware of it, it is not, of course, because we have to stop it. But I also say that if there is an unfair procedure and an unfair trial because of culture, because of language, because you cannot have a legal language in the same way that you can, if you have grown up in Denmark, then you must have the necessary guidance. I also believe that a child who must be deprived of his parents should not be deprived of his culture and language.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211518	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211521	I myself, as a municipal politician, have experienced that it can be difficult to have this type of special knowledge when you sit in a municipality where there may not be so many Greenlandic families. Could the rapporteur, for example: We also have a task force, which we can draw on today, but not just in this area or in this area. The Greenlandic houses could play a role in having some expertise that you could call and get assistance from in these cases, so that we could increase the available resources in these a little more rare cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211600	Yes, I would like to agree with the rapporteur that the area of competence must be developed, among other things. through cooperation between some of the existing institutions. I know, among other things, that in relation to some of those who have been subjected to placements and in which some of these cases have been dealt with independently and individually, and where it is believed that they have been unfairly treated, contact has been made with, among others. the Greenlandic houses, which are currently in the process of examining whether there could be an opportunity to link the competences here. But clearly we also have to demand that something concrete be dropped off. So I look forward to discussing it more with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211638	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211642	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say to both Greenlandic colleagues: how happy I am that there has been a situation like now, when we are really spending time discussing Greenlandic conditions. When I arrived in the Folketing and had the first debate, the debate with each of the Greenlandic colleagues took exactly 41⁄2 minutes, because there was one question, and then it was on to the next. This testifies both to interest, but also to how important Greenland is and, for that matter, to how important the kingdom community really is when it comes to the matter. Then I would like to say that Christoffer Aagaard Melson has the Left had a very central point, and these are the tests. I think it is professionally quite unqualified and irresponsible that this should happen not only in the case of Greenlanders but also in the case of Syrians and Afghans. And I also know stories from South Jutland, where the German minority cannot actually get one to help themselves in their own mother tongue when they are in a difficult situation vis-à-vis the social authorities. Now we heard some proposals, and I think that Christoffer Aagaard Melson pointed to some of the most important ones, but what do the rapporteur think are the most important things we should do if we are to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211749	Thank you. And before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I should like to ask for some silence in the Chamber; there is generally too much background noise right now. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211757	Well, thank you for the question. I think it is incredibly important that we look at the very issue of the procedure and the very issue of the fair trial. If we look at the rights of minorities, it says, among other things, that it is a basic human right that you have to understand what a process is going through if you have done something as big as being deprived of your most precious possession, which is your child. And here it is really important that you also come in and look at • so that some people can still speak Danish, but perhaps not at a legal level, which means that you can't say, so you're going to say that you don't love your child, even if that's not what you meant. These are the things we need to be very aware of when dealing with these extremely sensitive matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211854	Thank you. Here's the questioner. May I once again ask for a slightly subdued conversation in the Chamber or for a possible withdrawal from the Chamber. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211902	Now I didn't hear the last of it, but I hope it wasn't for me. Thank you so much for your answer. I think we have to try to take responsibility in Denmark for these very serious things. It is basically unprofessional and can be really, really obscene to the families that suffer widely. The second is the Council on which the rapporteur spoke. That sounds interesting to me, because I think it fits well with the debates we have had, that when the prime ministers want to meet something more in the national community, we as parliamentarians must also make sure that we have better contacts with each other and thus exchange experiences and thus discuss all the issues that are involved. So I think that this could also be the start of that particular question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211946	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007211947	I am pleased that there is interest in this on the part of several parties. It is true that if we look at the reports of the Self-Government Act, it is very clear how we are going to make royal regulations when we have something to do with legislation, but my experience is that both in the Greenland Committee, but also among the people I have talked to at home, they think that there is not enough discussion in relation to the legislation that is actually being dealt with and where we are really delving into the reports. I also believe that it would strengthen this process if we had more direct contacts between parliaments and not just at government level.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212027	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212030	Thank you for a good speech, and thank you for a, I think, good proposal for increased cooperation, an increased dialogue between the Danish Parliament and the Greenland Parliament. It is very, very good that we have some more dialogue, and it is very good that we have heard Greenland's views more. I also fully agree with the problem raised by the rapporteur that it is very difficult, when there are only two Greenlandic members of parliament, to have such a broad representation of Greenland's views and interests and a proper dialogue. So the problem is quite real. There is another problem, however, and it is that it is difficult for a country to have several different foreign policies, and when Denmark has a form of government where Greenland is part of Denmark, it is sometimes a little difficult when Greenland also tries to conduct its own foreign policy and has a person that is called Foreign Minister, although the Foreign Minister for Greenland is indeed Mr. Jeppe Cowfoot. So how do we sort this dilemma out, and do we also respect Greenland's fact that it is the Danish government that is conducting foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212143	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212144	Firstly, I would like to acknowledge that the desire for a parliamentary council and closer cooperation between the two parliaments are being welcomed. I can only be really happy about that. If we come back to, for example... responsibilities, you might call what is distributed in the realm, then the example of foreign policy is also used here. And there I think that the governing parties have a good basis for how this cooperation is being carried out. And, of course, when Denmark, on behalf of the whole kingdom, can go out and say something about what the Kingdom's foreign policy is, it is only fair that Greenland can come out and say something about its own foreign policy. Greenland does not come out here and say anything about Denmark's foreign policy, and it is also quite clear that we have the right to do so. And I think there is good cooperation between the two governments, both in relation to the previous one and the present one, on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212247	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212248	Sometimes we simply lack a word about when we talk about Denmark, where we just mean Denmark here, and when we talk about Denmark as the kingdom of Denmark. So sometimes you get to talk a little bit past each other. I mean, when I get there, for example. Speaking of the Danish Government, I believe, in fact, that the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark, and thus also that the Danish Foreign Minister, the Danish Foreign Minister, is in fact also responsible for conducting foreign policy for Greenland. So I am fully in favour of Greenland being heard, and I fully agree that you can also have relations directly with the United States and other countries that you need, but I just think it is important that Greenland also recognizes that it is the government of the Kingdom that generally conducts foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212339	Denmark is a unitary state. I agree with the rapporteur on that, but Denmark acts as a federal state. That's why there's a problem when people from outside can't understand how this kingdom works. There is also a problem on the inside when we ourselves cannot quite find a foothold in relation to the various citizens of the kingdom, in other words how it is all connected. But there is a government and there is a parliament in Greenland that is recognised as an executive and legislative power, and we must respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212420	Thank you to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007212440	Thank you, President. When I was on the platform 1 year ago, we were on a little time trip. The trip went to 2013, which in many ways was a landmark year for the Faroe Islands, not least for Faroese exports. It was then that all European ports were closed to Faroese ships as a consequence of a dispute over fishing quotas when the mackerel dispute began. Today I will take you back to September 12, 2021 for another landmark day for the Faroe Islands. On that Sunday, 1,423 white flakes, a kind of dolphin, were driven ashore and slaughtered in Skálafjørdur. For us cousins, there's nothing unnatural about killing an animal to get food on the table, whether it's fish or sheep or pig whale. All the time our islands have been inhabited, killing has been a matter of survival. When, like the Faroe Islands, you are situated a thousand kilometres up in the Atlantic Ocean from the mainland and when agriculture is an absolutely limited option, you have at all times taken off and been dependent on the largest resource in the Faroe Islands, namely the sea. However, we must face up to the fact that not everyone shares our perception of nature as a resource for food, and certainly not when it comes to dolphins that are sweet and that many have a preference for. We need to take this seriously, as does the national government in the Faroe Islands. However, let me say straight away that on 12 September the dolphins were in many ways quite unusual. It is quite unusual that dolphin flocks are so large, and it is very, very unusual that independent dolphin flocks are operated in the Faroe Islands and slaughtered, but sometimes they are included as by-catch in grinning flocks. It is important to make it clear that laughing is a Faroese cultural heritage and a tradition. It is done in a humane way, but with dolphin catch it is different. I am therefore pleased that the Faroese lager has made it clear that regulations will be made as regards dolphin catches, when we now see the tremors it has given all over the world. A dolphin catch, which has never been a distinctive Faroese tradition, should not affect Faroese companies' export opportunities. The price of continuing without regulation is simply too high. We must not risk a repeat of 2013, when our entire basis of life was boycotted. Now for something else. When Sambandsflockkurin went to finance negotiations last year, it was with a clear purpose, namely to focus on and clarify the conditions of criminal services in the Faroe Islands, which are not up-to-date. We came up with a wish to have 1.5 million set aside. kr. for an analysis of the conditions, and we got that. The Ministry of Justice has since prepared this analysis together with relevant authorities from the Faroe Islands, and the result is clear. There is really only one way to solve all the challenges and problems facing the criminal services in the Faroe Islands today, and this is building a completely new framework. A new prison where the physical framework is built for the purpose; where there is the possibility of keeping separate detention and imprisonment; and where there is a place that is visible all the days of the year and where the weather and wind do not hinder the day-to-day operation of both staff and inmates; and for help to arrive if necessary. Now I may sound like a scratched record, but I say it because the criminal services and the police are a real concern and must be negotiated and prioritised here in the Folketing and not in the Faroe Islands. That is why I am delighted that the Prime Minister, in his opening speech, stressed the need for a boost and a new direction in the field of criminal justice. This is particularly true for the Faroe Islands. I am very much looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations on a multi-year agreement on criminal justice, and I think it would be sensible for the Ministry of Justice to follow its own recommendations when it comes to deciding how best to improve the conditions of criminal justice in the Faroe Islands. Another issue I have dealt with over the last two years is foreign and security policy in the Faroe Islands in the Kingdom of Denmark. Foreign and security policy has historically not filled much in the Faroe Islands. As you know, these are not repatriated areas, and most foreign and security policy decisions have been taken over time in Denmark with very little involvement of the Faroe Islands, with the exception of trade and fisheries policy, which are repatriated areas. The lack of involvement of the Faroese authorities in foreign and security policy decisions is perhaps one of the reasons why it has not filled so much in Faroese politics and in the people of the Faroe Islands. It's not like that anymore. The Faroe Islands have at times been forgotten by various world peoples in a literal sense, but now the Faroe Islands have really come on the geopolitical world map. As foreign and security policy is more concerned with what lies on the northern half of the globe, the Faroese interest and desire to help make decisions has increased considerably, both politically and in the population. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Government for involving the Faroe Islands more closely than ever in matters which concern us. Thank you for listening. Thank you for showing due diligence and taking care of the desire for the Faroe Islands and Greenland to have a greater scope for foreign policy. This is especially important for the cohesion of the Kingdom community itself. The newly created Contact Committee between the Faroese, Greenlandic and Danish governments is for me to see a clear example of the fact that the Kingdom Community is constantly evolving as long as there is mutual will to do so. As I said before, the iron has to be forged while the iron is hot, and now you have. We have found the melody so that together we can now be a stronger great player in the Arctic. Sir. President, the newest James Bond film, among others. is admitted to the Faroe Islands, bearing the title "No Time to Die. I am tempted to say that this also applies to the Kingdom community. Yeah, you'd think they had the kingdom community in mind when they made the title of the movie "No Time to Die." Thank you for a good debate today. I look forward to our cooperation in the coming parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213451	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213455	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I know that the Faroe Islands have been working for a long time to obtain a new and improved free trade agreement with the European Union. I know that this is a matter of great concern to the rapporteur. How's that free trade agreement going? Can the rapporteur clarify a little about this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213517	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213518	Thank you. The Prime Minister has pushed along with the lagman, so we are at the highest level in the EU with a message to von der Layen. But I have to say that my patience has been exhausted a long time ago. It's going very slow, and too slow. If I'm going to compare it to making an agreement with, for example... U.S.A., yes, then it took five months, and then you had a deal. My patience no longer extends with regard to the European Union, because it takes far too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213607	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213609	Thank you for that kind of depressing answer. I hope these things will soon move forward. Can the rapporteur explain what improvements he is hoping for from the Faroe Islands, or at least from Sambandsflockkurin?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213625	I shall be very brief. The Faroe Islands are today a country that exports raw materials. That's why we're talking about selling to Russia, selling to China, selling to the United States. The largest market is Europe with 500 million people. There we would like to have a market where we can sell finished products, that is to say processed fish in the Faroe Islands, get jobs and give the fish more value. It will also ease the pressure to sell to Russia and become too dependent on that side.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213702	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213706	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur is also a member of the Foreign Policy Group and is therefore working with foreign and security policy and also with defence policy, and in this speech there were many commendable words about this contact committee which has been made between the three governments of the Kingdom Community, and in that there is a mutual dialogue, there are very many positive words about how the gap between the things that have been taken home and the foreign and security policy issues that are on this agenda. The rapporteur said many fine things in his speech; he said, among other things, that the Faroe Islands have now really come on the geopolitical world map, which was very praiseful to the government and the kingdom community in relation to it, because now you became a major player in the Arctic. Can the rapporteur clarify a little what he thinks this contact committee should contain if it was for the Faroe Islands and for the rapporteur's party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213806	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213807	Thank you for the question. I believe that this is an historic document which has now been drawn up between the government and the Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands and the Home Rule Government of Greenland at government level. And what we lack, but which is on the way, is at parliamentary level, i.e. that in the same way in the Foreign Policy Name, also in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, we have a dialogue on the same things, so that we connect the whole system and thus have a stronger kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213850	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213852	In fact, I think it is a very good idea that we in the committee or in the committee should be able to talk about how we can do something similar at parliamentary level as the contact committee does with the ministers. I would certainly like to return to my party. I would also like to ask about defence policy, because this capacity package has also been made in close dialogue in the Kingdom Community: what might benefit the Faroe Islands from the capacity package and what does the rapporteur think about the 1.5 billion package? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007213927	As the author says, 1.5 billion has been set aside. kr. for the capacity package and approx. 400 million kr. to a radar on the Faroe Islands. That radar, as we have all mentioned in the past, must cover the area which has not been under surveillance for many years and, of course, it will also keep an eye on local air traffic and other traffic in the area. So I just think it's positive for the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214010	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214014	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for an interesting speech on many important issues. What I would like to ask is a few other issues. The first is about the decisions that have been made in the Nordic Council about looking at rights and well-being among lgbti people. This was something that was very strongly criticised by the Faroese Government, which considered it to be value-colonialism, that we are dealing with human rights and equal treatment, and I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur how the rapporteur thinks we can raise equal treatment, equal rights and well-being among people in the UK, including the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214059	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214101	Recently, two years ago, a law on the rights of people with disabilities was adopted, and there is a constant debate about following up other rights that these people should have in connection with it. At the moment there is a proposal from the opposition in the Faroe Islands, and to me the Lagtinget is divided such fifty-fifty, but what it ends up with must time show.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214145	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214148	Thank you. I know that there are proposals, and I hope that this is something we could work for, so that we have equal rights and proper well-being among all people in the Kingdom Community. Something else I would like to ask is a subject of great concern to the Folketing, especially our network for sexual and reproductive health and rights, and that is the issue of women's right to their own body and women's right to choose abortion. This is something where we campaigner much in relation to the situation in Poland, but there is also a problem with the Faroe Islands about this issue. Is this something that the rapporteur thinks we can also get across the kingdom community, in other words Denmark and the Faroe Islands together, so that women get the right to their bodies throughout the kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214236	So, the situation is almost the same in the area of the Faroese Lagting, and as I see it, there is not much moved about the composition that the government has in the Faroe Islands at the moment. There is no majority in that assembly, so there needs to be a new local government. But there are many people who think it should be different in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214311	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214313	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for a wonderful trip to the Faroe Islands with the Faroes Committee. It was a great pleasure. I had heard about James Bond being admitted to the Faroe Islands, so I sat all the way through the James Bond movie and watched when the Faroe Islands showed up. I enjoyed the beautiful pictures of the Faroe Islands there at the end of it, but I think they have cheated us a little. You could not have said that it was in the Pacific between Japan and Russia, but there is so much. But we certainly enjoyed the beautiful pictures. On our trip to the Faroe Islands we were also up to see Mjørkadali, i.e. the prison in the Faroe Islands, which you want changed. And as far as I understand it, there are three different ways to build the new prison. Some of this is about the renovation and commissioning of more. It may be that the rapporteur will elaborate on exactly what solutions there are and what solutions the rapporteur considers to be the most natural one.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214417	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214418	Thank you for the question. Yes, the Faroes Committee was up in the mountain looking at our prison options. It's all up in the mountain, and it's not an area that you can put that kind of thing in. It's an old house, too. I have said here from the platform that the study clearly shows that only one of the answers in the study shows what to do. We're gonna build a new framework, and we're gonna build them downtown somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214501	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214503	Thank you. I'll move on to another part. We were also over to visit the National Police in the Faroe Islands when the Faroe Islands Committee was in the Faroe Islands, and I could understand that there is a challenge in relation to the fact that in the police settlements that have been made, only the National Police in the Faroe Islands have been treated in a single dot, so it is not a matter of course that they follow the entire police agreement. Is it a general challenge that the Faroese police should not be included in the whole agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214541	This is clear from what the chairman of the police organization writes to us and tells us that they are once again lagging behind the Danish system. It is part of the entire Danish system. And they are lagging behind in several areas, both within IT and within other things, which are therefore quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214617	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214620	Sir. Edmund Joensen explained this in part in his rapporteur's speech about the slaughter, the brutal, unnecessary slaughter, of 1,400 dolphins in the Faroe Islands. I am somewhat more in doubt as to how deep the reflection is with Mr. Edmund Joensen and the party. I understand those grocery arguments, like Mr. Knox. Edmund Joensen has brought forward by saying that it will cost the Faroe Islands' reputation and that it is important for Faroese companies to do this. But is there any deeper reflection on sustainability, where you don't have this kind of historical account of the number of dolphins, whereas you can, far back, explain very accurately how many grinning whales you have killed? So does the sustainability aspect, the ethical aspect, the natural aspect mean nothing, or are they just grocery arguments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214715	With regard to the sustainable aspect, it is said that there are, if we speak laughing whales, approx. 800,000 grinning whales, and the Faroe Islands are known to me as the only one who taxes grinning whales, and we take an average of approx. 800 a year. So the stock is at its peak; the stock is well. What we're talking about here are dolphins that we don't usually take in the Faroe Islands. There may be some in between in the large laughing flocks; that has been historical. That is why the national government currently wants legislation that regulates these things, and that is on the way. And if you want the details of it, you can go to the national government website where the lagman in English has written an explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214824	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214826	Yes, but as I said in my question, I am fully aware of the historical account of the number of laughing whales, which has been closely monitored; we know exactly how many have been in each year and so on. I've got that all figured out. I also know that in this by-catch, which may be associated with the flocks of grinde whales, dolphins can be included. But here we are talking about 1,400 of dolphins in an independent group which, in the worst, brutal way, was slaughtered without there being any tradition of it. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Edmund Joensen complains and says that it is not just about merchant arguments because it damages the Faroe Islands' reputation, but simply because it was simply a wrong act.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214903	I think we've told you well. That is why I told you in my speech how the Faroese people are used to living off the sea and what has changed: that they cannot take dolphins today, because it is the reputation that goes completely down, and other countries shut down the Faroe Islands if it continues, and that is why the national government responds to it and wants to make regulation so that it does not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214941	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007214945	Thank you to the President and thank you for a good visit. It is both interesting and personally enjoyable when we get a little out in the countryside and have a good dinner together and talk informally, but also have seen as much of the Faroe Islands as we did that week. I understand the Faroese people when they are not entirely satisfied with the European Union, even when they are not entirely satisfied with the Danish Government, who, after all, blocked the Danish ports for Faroese fishermen, where you had to trade with the Russians instead. This kind of thing is, of course, a joint responsibility, and there is also the responsibility of the Danish Government, and we should say so. I would like to say that we have received a letter from the Faroese police, and so the Prime Minister must listen a little, and they tell us that they are part of the Danish police, but do not get the IT system that the other stations get. We would be insane in Silkeborg if the police didn't have the same relationship as in Copenhagen. The same must apply when the Faroese do not have an IT system that can be used and is up to date and can ensure proper registration for the police. We simply need to resolve this, and I also hope that the Prime Minister will make a statement on it when she recounts it later this evening or night.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215106	Thank you. Wait a minute. May I have some silence in the Chamber, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215111	Thank you. I fully agree with the questioner that we are about to update things for the police in the Faroe Islands, because it is high time we took this very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215127	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215129	Thank you. We also heard that in the Faroe Islands there is some scepticism in some circles, even in very well-educated circles, about vaccine, but I also thought we heard that the Faroe Islands have actually got through the corona crisis better than even Denmark is, and we brag about the fact that we have come through very, very well. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he could give some ideas as to how it might be that the Faroese have got through better than the Danes and that only one sixth of the population got sick from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215209	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215210	Thank you. Fortunately, the Faroe Islands got through the corona epidemic well. It was basically the salmon industry that came up with a test method many years ago, and it was introduced immediately, that is to say, that you could test all people who came to the Faroe Islands by plane and by ship, and so that you kept an eye on the epidemic in a professional way. And then, of course, we have a medical team that has been professional, who has managed, observed and advised the national government so that they could get through it well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215309	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale, please come up now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007215319	Here all hope is left out, there is above the entrance to Hell according to one of the world's greatest poetry works, namely Dante's Divine Comedy, which is the current one these days, in that it is 700 years since the poet died. I think many Faroesemen saw the same inscription for their inner eye over the entrance to Tórsvøllur Stadium, when on 4 September they agreed to see the fight between the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We had just lost 4-0 to Israel, and now we had to meet the EM Semifinalists. There wasn't much to have hoped in. But our defense turned out to be a welded construction of discipline and organization, and there was rarely danger until the 57th minute in the Danes' field, where Edmundsson jumps up and heades on target after a throw on the right side, and the ball pops into the Danes' upper lounge, and the riposte pops out to Hansson, who from five meters shoots over the almost empty target. 5 minutes ahead of time... the reverse situation. Danish deadball on the right, Wind gets his head on, it hits the post and goes in. That was the difference that night: hangs out and posts in. 1-1 had been fairer, but we weren't in Dante's hell, hope lived the whole fight. If we move from football to the less important defence policy, we live in a time when, in Dante's words, the forces of the mind are going together on purpose, which is evil, and the forces of the fighting. Here the Faroe Islands and Denmark are not opponents, but must stand together with the rest of the West and each other. That is why the new Danish-Franco-Greenland Contact Committee, which the Prime Minister spoke about on Tuesday, is a good and necessary thing. My cooperation with the government has also been good. Some cases are well solved, while others are on the way to being solved. This applies to defence, foreign, security, financial, legal, cultural and tax policies. I would like to thank the ministers for putting aside time for the big and small matters that I am bringing in. One of those whom Dante met on his journey through hell was the great hunter Nimrod, who, in his arrogance, began to build the Tower of Babel, which led to the linguistic division between people. For him all languages are like his own, for everyone else is sounds without meaning, says the poet, and as punishment Nimrod can speak nothing but gibberish in Hell forever. But the rest of us must live with the consequences of the linguistic override, and this has led to a case that has not yet found its solution: Translation of foreign sermons in Denmark. It's exposed, but it's not killed. In June, I met former church minister Joy Mogensen and representatives of two Faroese congregations in Denmark to discuss the matter. On that day in a side room in Hans Egede Church on Østerbro we experienced democracy from its most beautiful side. The minister met with those who would be hit by her announced law, which was good mood, steamy coffee, homemade buns and open talk about the matter. I am not going to refer to what the minister said, but her understanding is apparent from the conversation she had in the DR programme • Speak to me in December, where she told me that at an international scout camp she had attended a service in nature. At a time when we are praying, she says, you can hear that everyone prays in different languages. And still gone when I tell you now, I get all goose bumps because I'm just thinking, "Wow, that's crazy." What I do is something that these people I've never seen before do in their language too. It may well be that at some point we each got our own language and each our own little spot in the world, but in all our diversity, we could actually say the same prayer. I think it says all about the case. And my advice to the new church minister must be: Listen to it, and understand that with the rampart of the law you cannot break into the space of people's lives that is sacred to them. So why don't you take that thing off the table, if only for me, 'cause I don't want to talk about it anymore. And if you don't want to listen to me or to Joy Mogensen or me, listen to a third Social Democrat, Thorvald Stauning, who back in the 1930s, all in Dante's style, more bram-free said: "Keep peace with the saints, otherwise the hell is loose." Finally, dolphins! As such, it is an internal Faroese case, but I do not get around talking about it either, because it has also come to concern Denmark • most of the people in here know about it from their mouths and because I myself have received insanely many inquiries about the matter, which I will answer here under one. That will be my position. I cannot speak on behalf of the Faroe Islands in this matter, because the people are divided. Our biggest export business has condemned the killing, the layman has taken up the matter politically, and the polls show that a majority wants this kind of killing stopped. I am a member of that majority. But I can also follow those who believe that we should dismiss the criticism and nothing change. On September 12, the 1,500 dolphins had a cruel Sunday night. But before that they had a good life. The billions and billions of animals killed each year in slaughterhouses have not had that in many cases. Dolphins are intelligent, but so are pigs. They are actually more intelligent than dogs, yet they are kept incarcerated and used for meat production, as it is so cynically called. Those who eat sausages and bacon and pork have no right to criticise those who kill and eat dolphins. Animal welfare is of course very important, and on 12 September we did not meet our own high standards. But the reason why I want to change is first and foremost the concern for our business community and, therefore, our entire welfare society. We have been able to resist global campaigns against the laughing killings because we have been able to get through with rational arguments, but when it comes to dolphins, we are up against something that is beyond logic, namely mythology. Dante describes a place some souls in hell, which is boiling in tar and sometimes comes to the surface. It was, he says, like dolphins, who sense the storm coming and showing the bow of their backs above water as signs to sailors to secure the ship. So the myth said that dolphins warned sailors when storms were coming, just as they saved sailors after shipwreck. In Greek-Roman tradition, the dolphin symbolises a savior, and in modern times it is trained dolphins and films like Flipper that lead the story on. It doesn't matter to an animal whether it is given the role in human stories as a beautiful, smart, helpful dolphin or as a dirty, stupid bastard. It is illogical and unfair, but it is a reality that we must deal with. So we are up against a strong mythology; the Faroese people are not united; delfindrab is rare and without economic significance, but they threaten what actually finances our health sector, our school and social services, namely exports and tourism. We can hardly win the battle, and the losses can be very great if we fight it anyway, and it will hit the weakest. I think we should concentrate on the battles that we can actually win, such as: On 12 November the Council adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the United States of America on trade and trade-related matters between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Korea on trade and Then we'll have to see who gets the hanger out and who gets the post in. Or more like Dante: Who will make hell hot for the other, which team will be the devils, and what team will lie and boil in tar? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220303	Thank you for that, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are a little brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220309	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech and a full record of a perhaps not indifferent fight. But it is perhaps as with most men I know: you can tell exactly who made the free kick for 37 minutes in 1973. However, I would rather ask what the rapporteur says is not so important: defence policy, security policy, foreign policy. For it is the case that a new mandate was made for this Contact Committee on Monday, where equality between our three countries was achieved in relation to security policy issues. I would like to ask the rapporteur how he feels about this Contact Committee; how he thinks cooperation should be and what objectives should be for the Faroe Islands, if Mr. Sjúrður Skaale was supposed to tell us what they were supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220402-2	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that this is a very good and important thing. You have to keep in mind that history shows that if you don't do this, it'll go wrong. During the Cold War, Denmark conducted a defence policy in the North Atlantic in cooperation with the United States, and it was taken very badly by the Faroese authorities. The fact that this Contact Committee has now been obtained seems to me to be very important, because basically, as I said in my speech, we do not have different interests. There are no different interests in terms of defence policy for Denmark and the Faroe Islands. And to coordinate it, to reach agreement on the statements you want, to ensure that everyone is involved and that everyone has all the information, I think is a good thing and a prerequisite for a good relationship in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220444	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220444-2	Thank you. I also asked Mr. Edmund Joensen on this Contact Committee in relation to the equal cooperation that must be, also in the intersection between what has been taken home and security policy and foreign policy. It is also the case that Mr. Edmund Joensen said that he would very much like it to be the same kind of cooperation that must be between parliamentarians. How does Mr. Sjúrður Skaale in that view, and how will he feel if it is to be the case that we need to have closer contacts between the three parliaments' parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220523	Thank you. It's kind of hard for me to answer that. Security policy is, of course, a matter for governments under the basic rule, which then involve the committees working with it in the respective parliaments. That is why it is a little harder to exchange confidential information between parliamentarians. It is, of course, a government thing. For example, I have. I have already said that there is a NATO delegation in this House that people from the rest of the Kingdom community should also be invited in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220601	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220603	Yes, and thank you for a good company in the Faroe Islands a few weeks ago. It was a pleasure, as usual. We also sensed that we came the week after the great delinquency, because it was on everyone's lips. It was very clear, and it marked it. One of the things I noticed was also on people's lips was the issue of radar on the Faroe Islands. I know that the rapporteur has done a great deal of work both in arguing for the radar, but also in examining the development of the connection to the radar. I know that the way it came about has been a challenge and I will try to hear the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that the Contact Committee can solve such problems in the future or whether other solutions are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220659-2	Thank you. It is the case that in the Faroe Islands people have not been concerned with security policy because it has been in Denmark, awareness of it is not as great as I think it should be. That's why I've done a lot of work in that area, and I've written a report and held a big event about it the other day in Thorshavn, where a lot of people showed up and there was also participation from the government. I think that the purpose of this contact committee is to hear about a military installation in the news, but to hear about it from the right person.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220736	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220737	I'm glad to hear that if it can solve that challenge. Then I will return to a point you had in your speech, this about the translation of sermons. I understand that the rapporteur has had a meeting with the former church minister about this bill that is not included in the legislative programme. But as I understand it, it's not completely taken off the table, but it just can't be reached in this parliamentary year. What does the rapporteur expect to do with this bill in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220814	Thank you. I expect it to be taken off the table. As I have said many times, you will never catch a terrorist like that. It is absolutely impossible to translate all the hundreds of sermons in languages other than Danish that are being given. Who's gonna do that? Who's gonna read them? If I were an imam who wanted to send people to IS, for example, I wouldn't say it on the platform if I knew it was translated and sent into the government, or whatever. So I don't think it's a viable path. It will create very great resistance, very major complications, and you will not catch terrorists along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220851	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220853	Thank you, and thank you for a terrific speech. It's always good to get Dante into space. Then the roof will lift a little bit. I would like to move forward on these issues of women's right to their own body and the right to abortion. This is something we are very concerned about in various committees in the Danish Parliament, both in the European Committee and also in the Danish Parliament's Interpolitical Network for Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights. We are campaigning to support Polish women in the right to abortion. We're discussing how to get to grips with this agenda internationally. And then you look at parts of the kingdom community, towards the Faroe Islands, and it has also been up to the Nordic Council. I'm not gonna ask Mr. Knox. Sjúrður Skaale, because he has to speak on behalf of the Faroe Islands, but as a politician: How do we move forward on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007220950	Thank you. Yes, we have a very old Danish law, which is still formally away the framework of the question, the case in the Faroe Islands. But to put it quite plainly: that law is not being followed. It is possible to have an abortion in the Faroe Islands. There are many women who get abortions every year in the Faroe Islands. What is hypocritical and cowardly is what I know, words I can use about the political system, is that you do not dare to take the matter up and say: this is our framework. I expected this to be done when, a few years ago, people, family and inheritance rights were taken over, that is to say, that area of legislation. But we still have the old Danish law. One overlooks the fact that it is not being observed and leaves it to the doctors to assess, and the doctor's opinion thus becomes the law of the country, which is completely untenable in a community governed by the rule of law. In fact, I have also produced a great report on this with the desire to have a debate on it, so that we can look at ourselves in the mirror and say: this is the case here and it must be respected. Now you're a coward, because the law says one thing, but you allow another practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221056	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221056-2	Thank you for your answer. I think it is particularly important that we dare to talk about these things and that we not only talk about other issues such as security policy, but also understand that the issue of human rights is, in such a way, a dialogue that we must have and secure across the countries of the Faroe Islands, Denmark, Greenland, but also within the framework of the Nordic Council. The last thing I would like to talk about is the fact that we have been debating this subject in the Nordic Council too, which has been a very violent reaction from the Faroese Government. Is it something that the rapporteur sees that we can also raise in dialogue between politicians in the two countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221138	Dialogue is always good. Everyone has the right to have their opinion. I think it is very important to respect the fact that the decision-making process is in the Faroe Islands and that this is where the decision has to be made. Of course, all entrances are welcome, and you are welcome to have an opinion about everything. When it comes to lgbti people, the Faroe Islands are very divided into two groups. When my party was in government last time, homosexuals were given the right to marry. Now there is a case that you should have the right to maternity benefits, because you cannot have them. But the current Conservative Government says no, it does not want to. When we win the next election, it'll get through. So things are moving so slowly in my eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221219	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221221	Thank you. And thank you for the inspiration. In relation to the dolphins, I was told that there is another aspect, that is to say the natural aspect, which Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned earlier. And that is that the dolphins that were slaughtered on Friday amount to 1%. I would like to say that this is an extremely important matter for all the dolphins in all the oceans, and that is why it is also a violent operation. But I understand that they really taste good too, so if you could just take one or two a year, it could be that it could work. I understand that the Faroese think well these days. But I also think that the criticism of the treatment of pigs in Denmark is quite appropriate. The history of the translation of sermons we must soon have off the table. I waste so much time when I get around, not only in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, but also in the German minority and elsewhere where you get afraid of it. I'll bet three of the best beers from the brewery in Klaksvig that that case must be dead. It's hopeless, it's a defeat to the government, it's no good, and fortunately it's not in the law catalogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221340	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221341	Thank you. That the barely 1,500 dolphins were 1%. of the total stock, I didn't know it was new to me; I didn't know that. But it is certainly true that you have much better counts when it comes to grinning whales than you do when it comes to dolphins. We feel laughing whales regularly and keep track of where they go, and we know that when you kill a very, very small part of the population, it is completely sustainable. You don't have that number as far as I know when it comes to dolphins, so these numbers are new to me. When it comes to those sermons, we can only agree. I think it is a matter that is lying and irritating in many places dolphins may have to survive, but that case should not survive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221430	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221431	Thank you. Then I would like to say that after the trip around the Faroe Islands, I stayed up there because there was an exciting conference that the rapporteur himself had arranged, precisely on foreign policy, security policy and radar, and there I found it exciting that politicians from all parties stood on a stage and had a public debate, because the government in the Latting, I could understand, would decide whether the radar should be there, because that was what was done in Denmark; there was the minister who was allowed to decide. And then the politicians said that it was probably best to take that decision in the Latting and let the parliamentarians decide. I've never seen that before... an open debate. I think we could learn something from that and I would like to thank you for the good experience it was to be at that conference.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221519	Thank you. As far as my own party is concerned, I can say that, as a starting point, we are positive, but that we believe that this decision should be taken in Parliament, because the setting up of a new military installation is so important that that decision should be taken by the Latting. Then we were also informed at the conference that the four bases that Norway is to open in Norway in cooperation with the United States should actually be decided by the Parliament. So it's not that unusual.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221546	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are no more brief comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and have reached the privateists, Members outside the groups, and the first to speak is Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007221617	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the opening speech the day before yesterday, with which I agreed on a long stretch, and to all the Members in this Chamber for a long debate to which I have listened with interest from the back row. After all, this opening debate is the first, and I am counting on it to be the last, in the 27 years I have been here, where I take part as a partyless party, which presents the challenge of being wisely brief. I find this difficult, so I have just a few observations. The Prime Minister asked a rhetorical question on Tuesday: we have to ask ourselves how we have been able to agree to the recognition of major problems for decades without resolving them. I think that is a good question to ask. I agree, but I listened a little in vain to the answer, that is, beyond the money thing. The Prime Minister said: "Since the government joined, more funds have been allocated by agreement to children, the elderly, education and health care. Yes, of course there is, I almost said, because there has been every eternally only year in the 27 years I have been here, except perhaps from 2 years, the last time we had a social democratic government, in 2011 and 2013, when there was negative real growth. But if you count off the two years we last had a social democratic government, year by year there has been real growth in public spending, and on average it has been on the good side of the so-called demographic trait, which is now evidently to be the new ideological battleground in Danish politics. That is at least the impression I have received when I have listened to today's debate • because, as the Prime Minister said, we need deeper changes. On top of that statement that we need deeper changes, there is then a proposal for one, it is called something else, but in reality it is a spending law. It is a spending law to ensure that annual finance laws take into account that public expenditure increases in line with demographic developments. And why is that? you could ask. Does the government only keep its electoral promises if it is legally obliged to do so? Do the parties that support the government only feel confident that the understanding paper will be fulfilled if a law is passed on it? That is something we may wonder about; at least I do. But it's a quiet wonder, it's a very quiet wonder. It gets much louder when you experience how it is then wrapped into such an Orwellian new language, and you call it a welfare law: It is a welfare law. And that is what you call it, because you will then have to create a social Europe that I see when I have listened to the debate on the artificial conflict between those who in Orwellsk propose the welfare law and others who quite rightly want the same thing, but who also care a little about the money having to be there before it can be used. One, two, four have the conflict: there are some who want welfare, and there are others who do not want welfare, one has to understand. You get so tired, so I get so tired, and I don't think I'm the only one. I do not think there are many who seriously believe that one side of the Assembly Hall has a patent to want a good start in life for our smallest, a good education offer for our children, a world-class health care for our sick and a respectful and caring care for our elderly. I don't think many people believe it. And there is certainly not a single person in this Chamber who seriously believes that welfare alone is guaranteed with more public spending, and yet this theme becomes the theme which, when I have listened to the debate from my seat, in today's debate has had the most nerve. That may not say much either, but the little nerve that has been attached to it here, and then you know it all again: welfare versus tax relief, red block versus blue block. I think we are neglecting to dig deeper into a spade, and time does not allow me to go into depth, but just take the elderly as an example: yes, of course, when there are more older people there must be more money, but no, money alone does not, and it is not enough to proclaim that professional freedom must be released, for to whom should it be released? If it is for the three employees who stood completely passively around Else Marie Larsen's bed and talked about her and not to her, then free me from releasing professional freedom to them. One has to ask: are the conditions in place, is there strong enough leadership, and do the elderly have sufficient rights? How can private players be allowed to offer themselves with innovation and new ideas without automatically, as we have heard here today from among others. Enhedslisten's side, to be convicted as big corporations that just score profit, or for that matter convicted as everything's solution by others? Why not discuss, in depth and seriously, how private operators could play an active role with fair settlement on the one hand, so that there is really a free choice, and perhaps a cap on profit collection on the other, so that the profits could be comforted? That's a question you could ask. One might also ask whether our way of setting things up at all holds for a future where we have many more elderly people, many of whom have a solid private economy and will certainly not stand for one size fits all, when they have been used to going in tailor-made throughout their lives in a figurative sense. Should part of their care for the elderly instead be covered by themselves through second-generation occupational pensions? I think there are a lot of questions if you put the spade in the ground a little, and I don't have a patent on the answers. But what I have listened to today about saying 'yes' to welfare law is good, and if you say 'no' welfare law, you are the bad ones, you are at least quite inadequate, and it is certainly inadequate if we are to live up to the Prime Minister's, whom I do not really know where is any longer... Third Vice-President She has been allowed to go). She has been allowed to walk, well fair enough, I stand here and shame her, because what I wanted to achieve is that we have to live up to the Prime Minister's wise words about, and now I quote that the democratic conversation needs new vitamins, otherwise it will be all, again in the Prime Minister's own words, too fragmented, too superficial. I think it does, in fact, when, in one proposal for adoption, the ambition to expel criminal foreigners is stressed a little ritually, while in today's debate, the government-worthy parties are trying to make a contribution to yesterday's repatriation of Danish children and mothers from Syrian refugee camps, although this is on the basis of a security assessment by the police intelligence service that any responsible government would follow. Third Vice-President Thank you, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Time's up). I would just like to say that I think it is double standard that you want one in opposition while you want to do something else in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007222413	Thank you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. That is not a short comment. The next person who has asked to speak is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007222434	Thank you for the floor. I had actually prepared another speech today, but with the great focus on racism and the experience I had the other day and the experience my parents had made me change the speech I had written. I would like to build on the conversation that has also started. So today I have one message: we must stand together, together against hatred. I would like to start by saying that both my parents and I are incredibly touched by the compassion and the good energy, the good and warm thoughts you have sent in our direction on top of the racist experience we had at the opening of the Danish Parliament. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for calling on Parliament to distance itself. But I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for calling a spade a spade and calling it a racist attack. But this isn't about me. This isn't about my family. It is about all the minorities who experience racism every day. It's about all the minorities who experience hate crimes every single day. It's about the citizens, the women who get spit on and who get their headscarf ripped off when they go to Føtex. It's about the gay couple who get arrested and subjected to hate crimes because they hold hands. It is about the strong minority women who storm on education but must send 60%. several applications to be considered. This is about Ali and Mohammed, who are subjected to ethnic profiling by some officers. It's about racism, and it's about hate, friends. That is why it has been really uplifting to me to see that many members of the Danish Parliament have recognised this week that racism is a problem and that we must end hate crimes. And these are not the notes we normally hear from neither the Chamber nor the Prime Minister. And, as you know, I have pointed out several times from the platform that we, as rulers, also bear a share of responsibility for the way we talk about our minorities. Compassion is good, but racism and hatred do not disappear by condemning them. Words aren't enough. Only action can stop racism and only action can stop hatred. And all of us who sit in this Chamber, all of us who have an influence on society and can make decisive decisions, can do something about racism. It is we who can do something about hatred, it is we who can create decent lives. So if we now almost all agree that hate crimes and racism do not belong in our society, then we also have a responsibility to do something. I am a public figure, and I have a public voice, which is why I can tell you about the experiences I have with racism. But Aisha and Abrasso don't have that privilege. We don't hear about their experiences, they don't get any declarations of sympathy from the Folketing, but they're really the ones who need our help, they're the ones who I want to address directly to the Prime Minister. Dear Prime Minister: Minorities, especially our Muslim minorities, need you to act. Denmark needs the Prime Minister to act. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to oblige the government to draw up an action plan against racism and hatred. An action plan to protect our minorities from hate crimes. An action plan that at least eliminates the discrimination that also exists in the labour market, an action plan that does away with racial profiling in the Danish police, an action plan that ensures that all our minorities, regardless of their religion, regardless of their skin colour, regardless of ethnicity, regardless of sexuality and regardless of gender terms, allow you to create free and equal life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223021	Then I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Free Green Group Uffe Elbæk, Susanne Zimmer and myself: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that hate crimes against minorities, especially Muslim minorities, require political attention and action. The Folketing also notes the need for a national action plan against racism and hatred, so that all minorities, regardless of religion, colour, disability, sexuality and gender expression, can live free and equal lives. Parliament will therefore oblige the government to draw up a plan of action against racism and hatred so that we can have a fight with the racism that today holds down far too many of our fellow citizens. V (3)
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223105	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223111	Thanks for the speech. I just want to hear Mr. Simpson. Sikandar Siddique, about Mr. Sikandar Siddique is aware that the report that should have come from the University of Copenhagen on race profiling by the police has been withdrawn because it is not believed to be useful for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223135	It has been documented several times before. The DR documentary was also out of evidence that ethnic profiling takes place, and the police themselves say that they do not use racial profiling, but they recognise that it can take place, that is to say the bias, and that a special focus can take place. They then don't call it ethnic profiling and don't say that they deliberately use it, but that there is discrimination, consciously or unconsciously, isn't something you can discuss; it's a fact. Then I would just like to say that it is important for me to stress here that our police, the Danish police, are not here some structural and some cultural things, unconscious biases and prejudices that make these things happen. That is why it is our duty as a united Parliament to ensure that everyone feels equal and fair treated by our police.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223237	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223239	Well, I think everyone in our society agrees that everyone should feel equal and fair treated by our police. But what I asked Mr. Sikandar Siddique on the subject also because Mr. Sikandar Siddique has called the minister in consultation about it was whether Mr. Sikandar Siddique is aware that the report used by a prominent Danish newspaper to say that there is a huge problem with so-called ethnic profiling by the police has been withdrawn because it is flawed. My question was whether Mr. Sikandar Siddique is aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223311	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223312	I am well aware that there are controversy about the report, but nevertheless you cannot overrule the many researchers that are the case with the Institute of Human Rights and the DR, and then there are also all the thousands of stories you hear around the community that have been out pointing out that there is ethnic profiling, consciously or unconsciously. We cannot have two opinions about that. That is why I am today holding this reconciliation speech and saying: friends, you can have a strict immigration policy or a relaxed immigration policy, but we must all agree that we must fight this hatred and we must fight this discrimination. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223354	Thank you. Then a little more requests have been made for short remarks. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223358	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I think it was very touching, but I am also familiar with the parents of the rapporteur who were subjected to this verbal abuse, and that is why I am of course very affected by the situation. I would actually just like to show Enhedslisten's support for the content of the adoption text which Mr. Sikandar Siddique read out and then emphasize that we can do much more than make a plan of action. We can also act. We can now decide to change the law on hate crimes, so that it becomes easier to judge for racism, and I actually think we should. So I just want to say thank you for your speech, and the rapporteur has to say hello to his parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223450	It's because I and Mrs. Rosa Lund have been in school together for nine years, so thank you, I'll let you know. I'm just trying to say here today that the experience that created a room created a conversation that I think we should build on together. You can still have a strict foreign policy, but we do not have to demonise each other. We may still think that we should have a ceiling on the number of refugees who come here, but we do not have to play each other off against each other. You may still think that there are some things about some cultures that you need to change, but we can still talk to each other properly. That is what my message is today. But I would like to sign for what the rapporteur is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223535	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223538	Yes, we need an action plan against racism, an action plan against utterances against the poor minorities and minorities. That all sounds very good. In the Danish People's Party we are actually a minority too. At least we were a little after the election and we were actually subjected to some hateful sayings yesterday. Then it happened that our former party chairman Pia Kjærsgaard was exposed to be called the Queen of Hate. Someone called her Queen of Hate. I do not know whether the rapporteur, who called our former party chairman the Queen of Hate, will be hiding the debate here in the Danish Parliament on a bodega plan. We are in a situation where all parties, from the Enhedslisten to the New Citizen, may well disagree, we can easily discuss, but we are doing so in a sober framework, and I think that if we had had such an action plan as Mr. Sikandar Siddique argues here, how did one get into the case that we experienced in the Danish People's Party yesterday?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223647	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223647-2	I think it is a pity that the rapporteur is trying to be polemical in this debate. I could give a lot of examples just from the rapporteur, who compared homosexuals to animal sex. It was the same rapporteur who said that. I could talk about the Danish People's Party's national meetings, where they say that Muslims steal are criminals. It was at your last national meeting, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said that all Muslim men cannot stay away from women as young as 8. I don't want to go into that today. What it seems to me to be about today is, in other words, that there is a common platform. The common platform must be cultivated, and we must stop cultivating hatred. We must stop demonising our fellow citizens. We can do that. We must insist that we get together. Then we can each have our own opinion on foreign policy, but my message today is. That we should all stand up against hatred together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223754	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223756	I have never compared homosexuals to animal sex, and I would like to make that clear, as the rapporteur knows. But if we are to stop the hatred that the rapporteur says, does the rapporteur think that it is to move in the right direction when the rapporteur calls our former party chairman the queen of hatred? Does the rapporteur think that it is reconciliation, as the rapporteur says here? Or what is the rapporteur's opinion on this kind of debate tone?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223825-2	It's a little unfair if I'm going to repeat the B.T.'s debate tone. Live, but then I just want to encourage you all to go in and hear it and hear how Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard in the debate yesterday and in all debates constantly attacks me and my person, and then I returned by saying it, and that was the worst thing I said there. But I think it is unfair and I think that all my colleagues here and all the citizens out there should try to hear that debate and then see who attacked whom.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223855	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007223858	Thank you. I take a deep stand against what Mr. Sikandar Siddique was exposed out front of Christiansborg the other day. I have also made that public. It is reprehensible to be subjected to such an attack because of its personal background. There is racism in Denmark, and there is also reason to pay constant attention to it, speak against it. I am sure that a plan of action can also be good, even if I have to hear what it should contain. We are not, the Danes are not. When a majority of Danes here in recent years have supported a strict immigration policy, it is not about racism. It is not about resentment towards people who come from other countries and have a different background. One can easily have deep respect for other people and their background, while at the same time being nervous that too fast an influx creates too great challenges in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224011-2	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. That is also what I tried to point out in my speech, namely to say that one can advocate a strict immigration policy without being called a racist, or without demonising the group which one believes should be restricted. I think that the nuances are important. What I am trying to say is that we are rulers, we are legislators, we have enormous power. What we say legitimise attitudes in society, and there we have a responsibility, and we can protect those citizens. That is what my message is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224049	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224050	I'm really glad about that, but I wish that Mr. Sikandar Siddique also pays attention to it in his statements in general. Now I just sat and looked down over, for example. Mr. Siddique's twitter profile, where it is said that Danish refugee policy has been a battleground to be as inhuman as possible. And it was written not long ago to the Radical Left that it was now the end of humanism because they were in favour of setting a limit on how many people come to Denmark. There, I think, we are crossing the line and actually beginning to demonise ordinary Danish views that we have to impose a limit on the influx. And I would like you to do that without wanting to make a big conflict out of it. However, I would just like to call for some thought to be given to this rhetoric, because it is also harmful and demonising.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224137	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224138	My philosophy is that you learn your whole life, and I take note of it and will pay attention to it. But what I am really thinking about is when, for example, you are thinking about what you are talking about. Compare Muslims with rats, or you compare the scarf with the swastika, or you say Muslim men are pedophiles, or you say that indirectly. That is the kind of speech which will then be legitimized out in the form of opinions. We have, for example. seen many of the hate criminals that have been. We have seen people stand up and say that it is because I hear this on television that I have this attitude towards our minority citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224218	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224219	This is undoubtedly a major task, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique has taken hold of himself if he wants to eradicate hatred. Well, it's almost like implementing a law of love, I imagine. But I also understand that it is such specific forms of hatred; that is, it is not that one hates rain or red porridge it is hatred that is directed at other people due to other people's specific characteristics. And I've heard Mr. Uffe Elbæk mentions Mr. Sikandar Siddique as an answer to both Malcolm X and Martin Luther King and other good people, and they were also through a process which I hear to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Sikandar Siddique is here confessing, almost as if it were an Oxford meeting. And then I'd just like to know if that's the case with Mr. Knox. Sikandar Siddique will regret all the hateful utterances which he, led by among others. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, earlier we can hear here in the Chamber that we have been the author. So, for example, he will. Apologize to Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard for calling her Queen of Hate? It's undoubtedly a very hateful expression. But, of course, it is not because of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's ethnic origin, but rather because of her views. So it's just to identify: is it only certain forms of hatred that are then covered by the love order, or is it all hatred? And if that's the last of it, sir. So Sikandar Siddique regrets the hatred he has expressed so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224332	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224333	I don't even recognize the picture that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt draws here as in no way. I'd like to see examples of where I've been carrying out personal attacks. In the debate that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt refers to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard as usual made a mass attack on my person. So it's unfair to say it, as sir. Morten Messerschmidt says here. What I am trying to say from this point of view is that we must all be aware that the citizens who are out there and who are not privileged as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and I, we must treat properly and that our statements affect and legitimise attitudes in society. And now the questioner makes it a question of us politicians. My appeal went to us rulers, us at the top of the society that we should not demonize them at the bottom of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224434	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224435	No, actually, I'm just trying to take the consequences of sir. Sikandar Siddique's statement. In other words, if you want to ban hatred, if you want to ban people from hating, then it is a very ambitious project. I hate that there are people in my family who have been killed, and the perpetrator I hate. I think that's a very human feeling. And that's why I just want to identify what it is, sir. Sikandar Siddique's project is all about. And if sir... Sikandar Siddique is such an apostle of love in Denmark, if he would say that all the hateful acts and utterances and deeds prior to the arrival of the apostle he repents. And a good start would be to apologize to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224517	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224517-2	If anyone owes an apology, then it is the Danish People's Party for the demonisation of our Muslim fellow citizens. I don't recognize the picture that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt pulls out and tries to paint here. I don't recognize that at all. But I would also say that if I had convinced the Danish People's Party today, I would be really, really happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224541	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224543	Thank you, and thank you for your invitation. And also my deepest sympathy, both for the rapporteur and his family, but the greater the sympathy of those to whom the rapporteur extends, namely all those who experience discrimination and racism in everyday life. That is why we simply support the fact that, just like a broad majority in the Folketing, we adopted an action plan against anti-Semitism last year and took action to identify the extent of it, doing the same here: we are taking action to identify the extent and adopt an action plan against discrimination and racism. It is appropriate and appropriate for us to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224638	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224640	I'd like to sign and thank you very much. Now I do not know if we are fortunate enough to be invited to the budget negotiations, but I am confident that the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and other parties will be involved in fighting for an anti-racist action plan; a plan of action to combat hatred and racism. And I would like to point out once again that we are privileged people; we serve well; we live well; we are well. We are talking about people at the bottom, and I think that as politicians we should be concerned about them rather than being concerned about ourselves and about our ego.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224721	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224725	Thank you. I would like to say, and I also said, when I was on the platform earlier today, that I believe that what Mr. Sikandar Siddique and his parents were exposed to on Tuesday, nowhere, and that should not be tolerated. It must end with such things, just as I think it must stop, that the members of the Folketing should be smuggled out of a back door from the church, because there are so-called climate activists standing in front of the church, who are afraid will start to come with caste guns and the like against elected members who just want to go to church before the opening of the Folketing. In that light, when I have said that I think both are bad in our society, I think it would also suit Mr. Sikandar Siddique, if he were not so ambiguous in the distance that comes, to so-called hatred. Well, it lights up far away that way, sir. Sikandar Siddique is attacking this on the fact that it is such a selective selection of what is really something to go in the flesh on. And I think that if sir... Sikandar Siddique has to run this to the end, there simply has to be more credibility in the distance to hatred in Danish society than there actually is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224834	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224835	I'm a little sorry about the Danish People's Party's approach to this. First, the first Members use this whole discussion to say: What about Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard? Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl again saw the discussion to say: What about us politicians we can't get out of a church door? That, of course, is also totally reprehensible. We're privileged people, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party are in power up here in society. It would suit the Danish People's Party to focus and think about protecting those who sit allermost in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224916	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007224917	No, it's totally wrong. We represent some voters, we represent some people in this society, and what we experience they experience too. So that's why you can do it when Mr. Sikandar Siddique is being molested out front, saying it is a privileged situation to be in being a member of parliament, but it does not belong anywhere in our society, and we will not put up with it. And as Mr. Sikandar Siddique says there are others like Mr. Sikandar Siddique, who is just not in the Folketing, but who is also experiencing something, and then Mr. Sikandar Siddique has the right to get us all to distance ourselves from it and to do something about it. Then we are just some others who say: There are also some other experiences. But it's like sir. Sikandar Siddique's approach to this is that it's very selective what's important and what we really need to neglect. And that's where I say there must be credibility in this, sir. Sikandar Siddique, next time try to think about how to actually contain the whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225004	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225005	I do not know what the rapporteur has not caught in the speech. When I talk about hate, I talk about hate against everyone. I could name all the hate in the world, but it would be hard in seven minutes. But let me satisfy the rapporteur and say: of course we must combat all kinds of hatred, all kinds of discrimination, all kinds of racism, all kinds of violence, all kinds of oppression. That goes all the way around, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahls, what can you say, security and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225039	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225042	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. We just had time to turn it around, too. Thoughts from here to mr. Sikandar Siddique's family, especially for the rapporteur's father. I could imagine if it had happened while I had gone with my family myself that it had probably been one of the most unpleasant things at all, and it hurts my stomach to see that clip. I would like to say two things. One is that the rapporteur says that it is time for the Prime Minister to get on the ground and thank him for the support he has received and opposes racism. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the Social Democratic Party disapproves every time there are these things? Whether it's a lady with a scarf or children being yelled at, whether it's a mosque where it's written that Muslims are cancerous, I think it was, or whether it's an imam saying that Jews are going to die, I actually think we're very clear about it. I think the Prime Minister has been very clear about that. The second point is that the rapporteur continues to say that all forms of racism must be rejected, but then mentions Muslims in particular and writes it in the text of the adoption. Well, I guess it's not worse because you have a Muslim background. I guess it's just as bad for everyone. So why is it that it should be specifically mentioned? I'm thinking that we're different minorities here... whether it's Jewish minorities or homosexuals... where it's just as bad, no matter who it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225149	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225150	Let me start with question number two. All surveys show that all the studies carried out by the minorities who are particularly vulnerable in our society today, and who are boning out in the statistics, are our Muslim minorities. That is why I say it is about all minorities, all sexual minorities, all gender expressions, all minorities. But we have a minority here that is particularly vulnerable. So our adoption text envisages a plan of action for all minorities, but it is important that we have a special focus here, just as we have a special focus on the Jewish community, which is a particularly vulnerable minority. That's the first thing. Secondly, I and the Greens have been trying for a long time to get an action plan against racism and hatred. Several times the Social Democratic Party has refused to make such an action plan. It has not been long since the Prime Minister from here said that she was against action plans, so what I sign for is that the Prime Minister has been clear and clear and I hope we can have an action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225259	Thank you. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225300	Thank you. I would like to see the statistics that, if you look at the number of Muslim citizens and Jewish fellow citizens in this society, say that Muslim citizens per. residents should be more threatened than Danish Jews. But let it go; it is just because the rapporteur himself mentions it specifically. I also asked about something else: can the rapporteur not confirm that the Prime Minister has on several occasions taken a very clear stand when there have been racist incidents that have been debated in public, not only what struck the rapporteur, but also previous incidents directed at Muslims as well as Jews, homosexuals and so on.?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225332	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225333	The Prime Minister has of course, through his long political career, been out to distance himself, but I also have to maintain that, for example. in connection with the attack at Harald Nyborg, where this woman was attacked, and other times, the Prime Minister has not been out to say anything, but there the political rapporteur has been out to say something, and here, because it is such a big problem, it has been asked several times that the Prime Minister should go out and address it here and say: as Prime Minister of this country, I am now focusing on this. We have repeatedly called for this in the debate, and there the Prime Minister has not been so clear and clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225414	Thank you. And then, sir... Torsten Gejl asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225417	Thank you. The reason I just came in here in the end is that I would like to acknowledge the political nature of this debate, namely to draw up an anti-racist action plan. So if it is the case that Radicals and Enhedslisten would like to take it to the financial law negotiations, then we would like to give it our warm support. It would be a really, really good thing to get introduced here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225443	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225444	I just want to sign for it. Well, now I know that mr. Torsten Gejl is preoccupied with protecting minorities, and I really hope that if the Free Greens themselves do not do so now we are collecting electoral declarations and we have up to 90%. I have every confidence that the Alternative, Radical Left and Enhedslisten and all the parties here will carry a plan of action against racism and discrimination into the financial negotiations. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225528	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more brief remarks, and that is the next one on the floor, Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007225552	Unfortunately, I have not been able to take part in today's debate because I have been benched over in the court of law. But, of course, you know all about that, in that it is the majority of you who have raised it. However, since I am just getting speaking time here at the prosecutor's office it is not so many defendants, it is amazing to be allowed to take a walk around the prosecutor's office too, but I think I might just give a brief summary of the case anyway. And I can say that from my perspective, things are going very well in the court of law. We are now over a third on the interrogation days, and we still expect a verdict to come before Christmas. And it's a verdict that I can say I await with serenity. So enough about the court for today. As I have said, I have not been able to keep up with the debate, which is why I also regret if there are any points from the previous debate here today which are now being repeated. What I want to say is a little bit about the bill that the Danish People's Party and myself have just presented. I am well aware that we here in the Danish Parliament look very differently at what problems are the most urgent to resolve in Denmark, but I hope we agree that since many, many thousands of foreigners in Denmark, who simply lie to Denmark and who do not contribute anything positive, have to leave the country. To put it like that, I am sick and tired of the group of foreigners that we, as politicians, cannot be familiar with and who continue to be in Denmark. We cannot be aware of this to the Danes, and that is why we must address the problem seriously. I am well aware that there are others who believe that climate policy is the absolutely most important task for us politicians. I fully acknowledge that many believe so. I also recognise that when faced with a major task, there must be special tools to solve it. We did so, in other words, we recognised it when the Climate Act became a reality. And that is precisely what we are now putting into the territory of foreigners. We therefore propose to introduce a 70-percent reduction target for the group of foreigners who do not contribute anything positive to Danish society. And that means those who do not work, those who do not speak the language, and the criminals. We propose that it should include all foreigners from the MEAPT countries, i.e. mainly Muslim countries. And I might as well, I think, put it bluntly: that is to a large extent the group with which we have problems in Denmark. They are the ones who, despite being here for decades, have still not adapted. They have not taken Denmark to heart, they have directly opposed the Danes, and they simply cannot continue to do so. I am well aware of what the criticism of this bill will be, apart from the substance: it will also be that it is not concrete enough how we will achieve a 70% reduction. But it is no different than when we resolve climate policy, and that is why I should like to quote Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen, who recently said, quote: I think this is an honest way of conducting politics, a visionary way. We will work differently and look at what is needed. And there is science very clear: we have to reduce by 70%, and we cannot do that by means of instruments that we have today, and that is why we have to invest in research. In other words, this is exactly the same thinking as we see in the new expulsion law. Because when we deal with such urgent problems, it is no good that we first wait for all the tools to be found. Then we will have to act now, otherwise we will simply get out of hand. And here it is probably not research that is needed. Here it is more exploration, namely exploring the means to send people out. And in my opinion, we need to get started. We simply cannot be otherwise familiar. I know, of course, that it is not always an easy matter to conduct foreign policy, and that can cost both on one level and on the other, even on a personal level. But immigration policy is something that you have to bear in your heart if you really want to change. It is simply no use that it is the daily form or opinion polls that determine what one thinks. I would therefore like to say frankly that I was about to fall out of the chair down there in the back row when the Prime Minister gave his opening speech on Tuesday and said the following, and that is a quote: the violation of fundamental rights is also happening at home. In some immigrant and religious environments, many girls and women are fighting for the freedom to live their lives as they wish. All too often they have to fight alone. We, as a society, must be much stronger in character. Stand firm that our values of equality, freedom, apply to everyone in Denmark. The government will therefore set up a Commission for Girls and Women's Freedom and Rights. Every girl and woman in Denmark must be allowed to live without violence, without social control, the freedom to choose her own spouse, the right to work, the right to an independent income. Rights and freedom, no matter where you or your family come from. Here, too, we will be a pioneering country. Quote out. But frankly, it has been said quite a few days after the Foreign Minister, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, first sent a bill in consultation, allowing the evacuated Afghans both to bring more wives and child brides to Denmark. Then he pulled it back ashore after pressure from the blue block. But that has also been said by a Prime Minister who, very recently, helped to raise an impeachment case on precisely the protection of the rights of girls to live in peace with or without a man and without social control. Well, it's almost baroque, and it certainly shows a zigzag course. So apart from getting dizzy about it, I would like to say that I am simply also worried about whether the government and the Prime Minister actually carry the foreign policy in their hearts when it comes to the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007230327	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007230331	Thank you, and thank you, Mrs Inger Løbberg, for her contribution. I think it is quite fresh to come here after sitting in the Court of Justice during today's sitting and still have the surplus to show up here in the Chamber and make a speech by the rapporteur and also make himself available for questions. So thank you for that and thank you for your cooperation on the motion for a resolution which Mrs Inger Nøjberg has examined here. What I would like to ask is whether Mrs Inger Løjberg, with her experience as a former minister in this area, can also see that perhaps a little more impetus could be given to the work on repatriations, in other words that sometimes it may seem as though things are going a little sluggish. I remember that, for example, during the previous parliamentary term. was a special review of Somalis etc. In terms of speeding up repatriations. So one thing is that it may be difficult to point out exactly how to reach the total 70%, but there are at least some low-hanging fruits that you could quickly get started so that you could move on with getting some of the inappropriate and criminal foreigners in Denmark to leave our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007230435	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007230436	Well, I'm not surprisingly in complete agreement with Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl i. It has to be said that we made the paradigm shift together, and you can say that somehow you got the plug in the hole, also about what some have called the small system change in 2001. I see this as just a direct follow-up to it, just now to simply say goodbye to some of those who do not belong here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007230512	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank Mrs Inger Løjberg. And then I'm gonna make sure we haven't missed privateists. I don't think we have. And since we've been through all the parties, it's now the Prime Minister who gets to replicate. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007230532	Thank you. Then it happened again: I had thought of one introduction to the reply here tonight on top of a good debate and end up holding someone other than the one planned, again because Mr. Alex Vanopslagh challenged us all with an exceptionally good rapporteur speech. It is not only because this year we are going to refrain from criticizing the signed report but, of course, it is a good thing because the rapporteur's speech was thought-provoking, reflective, self-critical, socially critical, I think, important for our further work in the field of children, youth and education policy. Allow me to quote: I do not think it is unreasonable to tell young people to make an effort. They must be adaptable and innovative and communicative and have an understanding of their own learning before they are expected to read, write and calculate properly. • When many young people today experience well-being challenges, it is also due to a loss of education. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • "Because in the responsibility lies the meaning. ▪ And what happened after the speech? There was an exceptionally fine discussion about education. I would like to highlight both the remarks made by the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Morten Dahlin and from Conservatives Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Both Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen nodded along the way, which is why I believe it now. I believe that we can build together on top of a good primary school with more focus on the practical subjects, on the idea that the school-tired young boy of 14 years of age should be able to work 1 day or 2 a week at a company instead of sitting in school and getting even more tired and perhaps be upset. I now believe in more freedom for professionalism and for education and training, as among others. Mr. Jens Rohde also mentioned in the debate the teachings about the ancient Greek, religious understanding, Christianity, history and everything else that we cannot measure, but which is important if we want to be a formed people. How wonderful it is to listen to a debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, which is not prepared down to the smallest detail and which is about the formation and commissioning of people. Now my hope is that we can take that discussion further. How do we do this in concrete terms when we agree that this is the way we want to go? And how do we strengthen in here from the social institutions that make us stronger as people and as a society • voluntary Denmark, civil society? And how do we do all this in relation to a future media settlement? That is something we must address. I think it is absolutely unconditional and without reservation that the opening of the Folketing, as on Tuesday, is an important, important party day. I must also say that the day of this year was marred by the very unpleasant incident which happened to our colleague, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique and his parents. Let me be very clear: racism and discrimination do not belong anywhere in Denmark. I've seen the video of what happened. I just got so upset. Two older people are being overfused just outside Christiansborg and it was also an attack on an elected politician. It's wrong. We cannot accept and we must not accept such actions, either as elected representatives or as citizens. I also hope, of course, that I will be able to speak on behalf of the whole of the Danish Parliament when I say that we must condemn both racism and discrimination. So back to the other debate today: how nice it is to see that the optimism that characterizes the rest of Danish society also goes back to our debates here in the Assembly. Denmark has made strong progress through the pandemic. We agreed with most of us in this Chamber to take swift action against the infection. We have been pursuing an expansive fiscal policy along the way; we have borrowed, we have invested, we have held hands under employees, self-employed and companies. Because we have had good epidemic control, rapid deployment of vaccines and large stimuli packages, we have limited the setback and quickly restarted the Danish economy. And that is why our little fantastic Denmark is one of the countries in the world that has best made it through the crisis, both in terms of health and economics. The results can all finally see. Production in Denmark is higher than before the crisis. This year we have the prospect of the highest growth in 15 years, of positive growth in exports, and unemployment is lower than before the crisis, actually at the lowest level in 12 years. There have never been more Danes in work than at present, and from this year to next year there is a prospect of an increase in structural employment of almost 20,000 people. In other words, Danish economy is in top shape. That is why, of course, I am pleased that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the platform voted in with the words Denmark can more precisely • and that is what we are about to show. I therefore fully agree with the same rapporteur when he says: Jakob Ellemann-Jensen says that we are in a situation which most people had not dared to hope for. As the debate today has also reflected, and it is true that it is actually difficult to see Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen for the flowers, but there's Søren Pape Poulsen! We have to stick to one thing, namely that it is basically a sign of health. Better high demand than the opposite. But it should not be allowed to slow us down. We have put forward a responsible financial bill which tightens up fiscal policy, turns it down. Recently, a tripartite agreement was concluded with the social partners and the KL. It must help to create more hands, but we must have greater ambitions, because more people have to work. After all, it is now about exploiting the good times to make it even better and to get even more with: all those people who, despite job openings, are not part of the labour market and who are outside the Community. And that is why, above all, the many women with a non-Western background who are not at work today have to go to work. And things are connected. Mrs Pernille Vermund is right, just as the poet Yahya Hassan was also right: there was and there is too much violence in parts of the immigrant environment in Denmark. The far too widespread violence against children and women is oppressive, and it is painful for those hit by the braces and by the fist, and it should be equally painful for all of us. Those children and those women must be better protected. And yes, it is a matter of culture and that culture must be changed and it must be challenged. And that is why it is important to break up the parallel societies, the many parallel societies that have been allowed to emerge in our society, and we do so, among other things. by ensuring that all women leave parallel societies in the morning and go to work. They must have an active everyday life, they must earn their own money, and that is why I also hope for broad political support for the Commission we want to set up for the rights and freedom of girls in Denmark. The SF in particular has today wholeheartedly supported this idea. Thank you. In general, we must address the structural problems. 45,000 young people are not doing jobs or training. This is something that we all agree on is both distressing and unhappy, but none of us has managed to solve that problem. Shouldn't we promise each other we'll get to grips with this problem now? When things are going so well in the economy, it is now that we finally have the opportunity to actually bring them in. We have presented our ideas - some of them are Denmark can more I • More in work. Denmark must be richer, greener, more skilled with proposals for investment in business, in research and innovation, a new green billion and with significant investment in the education that everyone agrees is so crucial; we can make a total investment of 2.5 billion. kr. A year in education beyond what we already do. More reform proposals are coming. You might as well prepare for that. There has also been much discussion today about a hopefully future welfare law. It is basically about the fact that when there are more children and, fortunately, we live longer, we also have to spend more money in the area of children and in the area of the elderly. It is not because money can stand alone, it never can, but because the alternative to it is to pursue the austerity policy that our welfare societies have suffered for too many years in our eyes. With this, we promise neither gold nor green forests, but the idea is to put a solid bottom under the welfare society that everyone has said we are happy about today. We have done so with financial and economic and regional agreements, but that is not enough. We really thought that it would give itself a great deal to introduce and implement this welfare law, even though it was once the case that there was a majority who wanted something else. And when many public employees in the hospitals today find themselves running too fast, it is because too much has been spared in the health sector in the past. When we went to the polls, we said that we would introduce a welfare law. Back then, it was called airy talk. At the same time, the Left said that it would also give priority to welfare itself. Then it became a vow of welfare. Now I understand that you are frightened, I think, even from a deep sense of welfare law. The promise made by the Left before the elections now comes with ultimate demands on the government, something with a guarantee of economic growth and tax freezes • a good old Left classic. In a way, it's just a little too smart. It's kind of like signing the terms of the contract with the small print after it's signed. And I really do not understand how to demand anything and why you want to demand something in return for what is so important, namely that there is proper care for the elderly and that there is enough time for our children. Therefore, I am not really surprised that it was a little difficult to explain the logic earlier today, and therefore an open question comes from me: how much do you think that welfare promise is worth today, and what other Left vows come with new conditions and ultimate demands when reality starts to knock? And that reality is knocking. Not least, today's climate debate has shown this from a great many sides. I would like to say thank you once again to all of you who continue to press for further climate action. And this evening I would like to repeat what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said about the climate crisis earlier today: we cannot continue as we are doing now, not if we are to be responsible for the future, not if we are to take responsibility for the future of our children and grandchildren. I agree. It is therefore also good that Denmark takes the lead in the green transition. We have adopted one of the most ambitious climate targets in the world and we are well in the process of achieving it. In the first two years, we are almost halfway, but it's the but that's the important thing we have to do more, just as I said myself in the speech last Tuesday. And what are the next steps? We need to develop more renewable energy, even though we have already decided to develop renewable energy. We have decided on the world's first energy islands, on green cars, a greener industry. We have set aside money for the development of future technologies: CO2 We have set in motion work on green tax reform, set a date, an end date for oil and gas production as one of the few countries. But we have to move on. And then, on Monday, we managed to reach an agreement on a green future for agriculture. Once again, I want to thank all of you who take responsibility for this... it's a visionary and broad political agreement... and that means that Denmark can now take the lead in a green conversion of agriculture, not only at home, but hopefully also as an inspiration for many others. There is a proper framework for the industry so that Danish agriculture remains competitive • growth and jobs, but the direction is clearly green. So even when it's hard, we can make broad deals. That is good, because it creates stability and security about the green transition, a framework for businesses and, hopefully, continued population support, and the world they know where they have us. It is arrogant and we have achieved a great deal in a short time, but we will not stop there. There is clear support, I can hear, for the pace to be stepped up further and for ambition to be further increased and for ambition to be increased. We must now start with a uniform CO2 we must ensure an even greener industry, a more climate-friendly energy and supply sector. We need to create a strategy for future technologies, CO2 on top of that we need to step up our efforts to bring the rest of the world with us. Climate diplomacy is what the world needs and where we are now actively engaged in securing good global agreements. Tomorrow, close to later today, I'm going to India to meet Prime Minister Modi as the first head of state after corona. We must take new steps forward in the green strategic partnership that we concluded last year, and there will be COP26 shortly. Denmark must play a central role here, and we will aim for the COP to become a green turning point for the world. In other words, the coming months will be crucial. As Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said earlier today: we must dare to dream of a better and greener future. But we shouldn't stop at the dreams. We have to realize. We in the government are well in the process of fulfilling the electoral promises, both as we agreed in the understanding paper, and the promises on which we ourselves went to the polls. This applies to the climate, and that applies to Arne, but it also applies to foreigners, of course, and allow me to dwell on it a little. We proposed before the elections a stop to spontaneous influx of asylum, and I would like to add a few words to the proposal, this very difficult proposal. It is, of course, about Denmark being able to control itself, how many and who come here. This is absolutely essential if we are to have any hope of correcting many years of failed integration. But it is also about something more fundamental: how best to help people flee. This year alone it is estimated that at least 1,200 people have died trying to reach Europe. Let us take it one more time: 1,200 people, children, women, men, have lost their lives on their way to Europe alone this year. Many more than this number are under attack along the way: sexual abuse, prostitution, rape, forced labour, random violence, torture and killing. The current asylum system is not only inhumane, but has also created an industry of organised trafficking in human beings. Cynic backers exploit other people's misfortune, they are people who are vulnerable and desperate and who are expected to come to Europe, they are guaranteed a life here. But that's not the truth. Since 2014, well over 1 million asylum seekers have been granted more than received rejection of their application in the EU. About half of the asylum seekers who have their application examined in the EU are refused. They are not entitled to protection and must therefore return. Do we have the ability in this system to help those who have the greatest need, those who cannot, those who do not have the resources, either human or economic? It costs approx. 300,000 kroner. a year to have one refused asylum applicant accommodated at an exit centre in Denmark. Imagine if we could use those resources in the vicinity, we could help many more people better and much safer. The asylum system we have today means that people are forced on a dangerous journey. Some people die, some are subjected to abuse, it is inhumane, it is unfair, it is dysfunctional, it means that we are misusing resources on many people who are denied protection, and therefore new solutions are needed. And no, I'm not saying it's easy, nor is it easy, and there's no easy way for this. I just do not see a single good argument for continuing with the current asylum system, either for refugees or for a Europe that cannot continue to bear the great migratory pressure. What are we gonna do? Firstly, we must do more outside Europe. We can help better by helping the many in the vicinity. Secondly, we must strengthen international cooperation on refugees. Well-off countries such as Denmark must, of course, take our share of responsibility. It is clear that we must support the United Nations quota refugee system as well. We welcome quota refugees, but we will be able to do so even more if, at the same time, there is no unfair spontaneous asylum influx. Thirdly, we must remove the incentive for people to risk their lives at all on the perilous journey towards Europe. I repeat, I'm not saying this is easy. I still believe that the government still believes that this is the only right solution both for the world's refugees and for Europe. Then to something quite different: thank you again to the North Atlantic mandates for good rapporteur speeches, touching rapporteur speeches along the way and for good cooperation. You make an important contribution to lifting our Kingdom community, developing our Kingdom community and yes, also to drawing prejudices into the hall and having them challenged. We are very concerned about the Kingdom community and that it must be well functioning and keep up with time. There must be room for us to be different and we must find pragmatic and sensible solutions to the problems that arise along the way, and I am therefore pleased that many of you today thank us for the concrete cooperation in which we are all doing our best to resolve the problems that exist. I therefore also have great expectations of the Contact Committee where we in the Kingdom Community will have a very close dialogue in the future on foreign policy, security policy and defence policy. I am also pleased that we have agreed that the Faroe Islands, but in particular Greenland, should have a more prominent role in the Arctic Council. I find that quite natural. Then I would just like to say to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam that it is of course important that we protect children in relation to failure and misfortune, regardless of the background. We must prevent neglect and I understand that a study has been initiated at VIVE to identify why Greenlandic children are placed outside the home and their subsequent well-being, and that will also help address if there are challenges of the nature outlined earlier today. Eventually the time is running out: We have great ambitions on behalf of Denmark, it is nice to hear that this applies to all of us. I think we have had a good debate today; I was particularly pleased when the roof almost lifted in a more extensive educational debate. Now that we have managed so well through the crisis and the pandemic, we also have a unique opportunity to take forward-looking decisions together. Since our accession, we have reached more than 200 broad agreements across the middle, and that is why we must of course thank all parties who are helping to take responsibility for a long-awaited compensatory reform, for a forward-looking infrastructure plan, for the green transition, for a climate law, for energy islands, most recently an agreement for agriculture, for education throughout the country and finally for the distribution of pupils, well done, to put the children first, thank you for that, for a police that once again comes closer to the Danes, for a worthy withdrawal to Arne and others who have worked their whole working life. These are large, significant agreements, broadly based, which will have a structural impact on Denmark and the Danes, created in a broad collaboration, pragmatic, constructive, responsible. In other words, the rule of the people works. Let us show the Danes that we can continue along this path and continue to find common ground on the major issues. It serves Denmark best.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007232919	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. Now there is one hour for short remarks, and we start with Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007232927	Thank you so much. After all, the government has presented its proposal for a welfare law. It sounds nice, it sounds hot, it sounds nice. Let me just start by making it clear, because it seems to have caused some confusion. The Left has made a vow of prosperity, and we intend to deliver on that, because money must follow when more children and more elderly people arrive. But what I miss in the government's welfare law is a glance at making money before spending the money. You make the money before you spend the money. This is just an obligation to use, but not an obligation to ensure that the money is there, and I do not think that is responsible. That is why we have put forward a few improvements to this draft law, in which we say: if we assume the obligation to ensure that we keep up with the demographic move, should we not at the same time have the obligation to keep up with the economy, so that we ensure that the development of wealth follows and that we have a tax freeze, so that we do not simply raise taxes to finance the increased need for welfare crowns?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233048	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233049	But the order is the other way around. The order is reversed, for some years ago a welfare settlement is being made here in the Danish Parliament, which ensures the sustainability of the Danish economy, which ensures that there is room for manoeuvre and which ensures that we can cover the demographic trait. So the money is earned and otherwise delivered and will be earned and will be delivered because the Danes have to work more. That decision has already been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233121	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233122	So the Prime Minister simply thinks that we have already made decisions forever and ever, that enough money will be made in this country to cover the demographic trait? Then it is no problem to add it as an improvement to the welfare law, to say that the money must be made before it can be used, and that we are not just pretending to make money by raising the tax. Then the Prime Minister can easily buy in on the improvements that the Left has made. If we want to keep up with welfare, we must ensure that the economy follows. It's obviously not a problem, or is it an old-fashioned way of thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233201	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233202	I think, in fact, that the questioner's first words and first sentences brought something very revealing, namely that welfare law is something that is a little cozy. But that's not what this is about. It's about being a child in this country, you have to be sure that you are allowed to live a childhood where there are adults enough when you are handed over to the nursery and kindergarten, and that the day when you can no longer take care of yourself and need proper assistance from the rest of the community, care and care, there are actually enough employees at the care center. That's exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233240	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233242	Thank you. The Prime Minister is annoyed every time I choose to quote her from the month of March; I know that, but we do have numerous quotes. I don't have to start with them. I see the PM is already familiar with them, right? It is about the foreign warriors who have turned their backs on Denmark and who have nothing to do in Denmark anymore. After all, we have 30 quotes in all sorts of shades of what the Prime Minister thinks. Nevertheless, the people have landed in Denmark last night and are now going through a long process with Danish taxpayers' payment in the back. So we are a little nervous about whether the immigration policy is really moving, that is to say whether it is something that actually comes from the heart or whether it is something that can be taken from day to day. That is why I just have a question for the Prime Minister, which concerns the guarantee given by the Prime Minister before the last elections, namely that if the fundamental principles of Danish immigration policy are to be changed, that is to say relaxed, it must be done across the middle, by the bourgeois parties, or at least one of the bourgeois parties, supporting it. This applies, for example, to the rules on asylum and the rules on family reunification, i.e. some of the things that bear on it, and if they are to be changed, there is a need for a broad consensus here in the Folketing on it. Can the Prime Minister confirm that she's still on that foundation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233351	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233352	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233354	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233356	And that means that there will be no change, either in the rules on asylum or in the rules on family reunification, unless there is a broad majority in this Parliament who thinks it is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233406	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233407	Both my position and that of the government are the same as before the elections: that the strict immigration policy is absolutely, absolutely crucial for Denmark. There are massive challenges due to a wrong immigration policy pursued over many years. Fortunately, for a number of years we have been approaching each other, many of the political parties, so that we have, in fact, adopted quite a broad consensus in terms of both asylum, citizenship and family reunification. If, then, on this question, there is that if, for example, there is a judgment in the field of asylum, one should not follow it when one is a government, that is another matter. But yes, immigration policy should be based on the middle.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233450	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233452	I was also very excited about Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's speech and the debate that followed, namely on how to protect children and young people from displeasure. What can we do in our education system? Can we set up a clear frame? And I also think it is a good thing that the Prime Minister signed up for that debate, because I really believe that this is what we really need in order to get the spade deeper in relation to our common primary school. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will not say 'Now, when the Prime Minister also mentions more freedom of professionalism, perhaps one day a week internship in a company, or what it may be that today we must give each other a handshake to the fact that the Minister of Education is calling for discussions to set the primary school freer. In fact, it may be to do one day a week where you are out at a company and you do so in some places. It could be that in some places you wanted to experiment with professionalism in nature. And a third thing could be that you would like to have shorter school days with many more teachers in the individual hours. But it's all about having the courage to set the primary school free.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233559	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233600	One day I had the opportunity to sit in a longer education talk with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, and now I do not remember which municipality was referred to, but we are in the Middle East Jutland. It may be that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen can whisper the name of the municipality. Vejle. ) Vejle, good. Well, now I've spent all my speaking time on it. Anyway, the conversation was really, really good, because here we have been doing what we have been talking about today: giving some young people that we would otherwise risk, as I understood it, losing on the floor; they might have been school-tired and having difficulty finding their way in the education system; the possibility of being allowed to be out at a company while still going to school and finishing the 9th grade. And I'd love to help you move on that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233709	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233710	I am pleased about that, and that is why I think we should start, in fact, to set the primary school free. For one model can fit in Vejle or a place more located in Midtjylland, • peace be with it • another model can fit in South Harbour, and a third model can fit in Nakskov. And I think we need to have a greater understanding of the diversity that can exist between schools, pupils, but in fact also in relation to the local area. Now the Prime Minister did not get so much response time last, but does the Prime Minister have the opportunity to say: yes, we would like to call for negotiations to make the primary school more free?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233746	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233748	Well, that will undoubtedly come, because I really think that some of the uplifting things about some of the discussions that we have also helped to start here after the summer are that everyone agrees that in many ways it starts and ends with primary school. And if we are to do something structural about some of the other problems, we need to get a hold of the primary school. How exactly we're gonna do that, we're gonna be allowed to come back with. But yes, we need to discuss how to get a better primary school... an even better primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233815	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233818	Thank you for the floor. Juelsminde School in Hedensted it was. It is true that I was confused by the fact that we were in Vejle. It was a good experience, but I would now like to go straight out into the world too, because the Prime Minister also emphasized it in his opening speech the other day and, of course, here too, how the climate diplomacy is crucial. There are also a number of other diplomatic efforts we really need in these times, not just in the coming years, but actually right now. I am thinking very much of foreign, security and defence diplomacy, defence policy and cooperation. We are a small country and we need so much to be part of a larger and stronger community. I agree with the Prime Minister that the United States is a crucial ally, but I am also concerned when the Prime Minister does not speak in the same breath about how we need to strengthen European cooperation in this area. So is it not time to take account of the role that the European Union plays here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233931	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007233932	Yes, it is. I have just come home from Slovenia since we had last assembled where we exactly met to discuss what is actually the European Union's role with the geopolitical changes that are and on the global stage that are emerging. I believe that it starts and ends with NATO when we talk about defence and security policy. So, in my view, the transatlantic alliance is the whole prerequisite for our security and for our security and, moreover, what has created the framework for Europe, not least, to have been secure, and that is since the establishment of NATO. So it starts and ends with NATO, but it does not have to be in contrast to Europe itself being able to do more and having to do more. This is true in our neighbourhood, for example. If I may give an example, we have a French-led operation in Africa, in relation to the risk, among other things. for terrorism, where Denmark has chosen to play an active role together with some other European countries, and I can imagine more of that in the long term, i.e. an activist foreign policy on the part of Europe in our neighbourhood, and that can be either one way or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234044	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234045	I'm really glad to hear that. I am a strong supporter of NATO, contrary to the radicals of the past, and I grew up precisely with the anchoring there. But the signal from the United States is quite clear. That is precisely not in conflict with each other. There is a clear expectation that Europe itself will take much greater responsibility. There will be a very clear and defence-political discussion in Europe just after New Year's Eve has launched by the President of the European Commission and we ourselves need to have a discussion about a new defence settlement in Denmark. Therefore, the following question: Can we have it without taking a position on Denmark's role in Europe and thus Denmark's defence reserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234135	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234136	I believe that, if we look at it today, regardless of what one might have of the defence reserve, that is not what prevents us from playing the role we would like to have. Because if you look at Denmark's international commitment to defence and security, we play a role in several different places. We have announced that we would like to take a more active part in the United Nations, in other words by seeking support to join the Security Council, we play a very, very important role in NATO, also in direct operations, and at European level, as I said before, we have, for example, cooperation with France. So Europe must take greater responsibility for the neighbourhood, but it must never be at the expense of the transatlantic.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234223	Then it's Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234225	Thank you so much. To begin with, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government for their cooperation and the results we have achieved together in a wide range of areas: nature, the elderly, social, health, education, corona. So thank you for that. My question concerns a concern which I have a concern about whether the red compass of the government is slipping away. You chose to reduce inequality with a rather nice programme that reduced inequality a bit, but it hasn't really happened yet. The Prime Minister went to the polls to become the prime minister of the children, and perhaps an agreement has been made on temporary child benefit, but it is, as the word says, temporary. You wanted to get away from the time of cash benefits cuts, with legal measures against welfare workers, and now we're back here. That's why I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister about why. You have the opportunity to pursue a much more equal and fair policy with us, so what is happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234337	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234338	Let's take a couple of impact points. Arne and dignified withdrawal from the labour market. It is the most important single guarantee of the safety net of ordinary people in the labour market. In my view, this is a huge victory. For example, Denmark can take a look at the changes we propose in the tax area, and then they turn right on Gini. When has the last time been seen a major proposal for a tax restructuring that does so? I don't remember. And then we propose that in the first part, where unemployment may be at risk, you should have increased your daily allowance by DKK 5 000. a month. I do not remember a government that has put forward major direct improvements for ordinary people. I remember many examples of the opposite. In addition, we are dealing with a country with the lowest unemployment rate for more than 10 years, the highest growth in 15 years, a thundering economy. That is, of course, the most important thing: people getting to work. So in this respect too, things are going really, really well in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234447	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234448	Well, it may well be that there are some who get raised the daily allowance level, but at the same time you are also suggesting lowering it for a really, very large group of people, and that really worries me very much. I'm particularly worried when the game you're making is called "Denmark can do more," for who will pay in no. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6? I am concerned that you, as a government, are going down a slippery slope, and I would strongly warn against that, but of course I am pleased with all the steps we have taken together in the right direction. I really hope that this will also move in the right direction in the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234527	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234528	I just think we need to look at what we are proposing in the field of graduation, because there has been, it has to be said, quite a lot of development in our benefit system and, in my view, the benefit system is primarily intended as a way of ensuring that people who are linked to the labour market are properly covered in the event of unemployment. It is relatively new that we have graduation allowance in Denmark of the nature that we have today, and if you look at the relatively short period we have had it, you will see a development where an increasing proportion of the people receiving unemployment benefit are graduates, and therefore I think we can make the change we are proposing here. In fact, when it means a great investment in education, I think it is a good solution and a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234613	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234618	Thank you. I can predict that we will have a terrible discussion in this Parliament about welfare law and who is in favour of it and who is not in favour of it, and then you are for or against welfare. I see how awful this is gonna be. But let us now call it what it is: The law of welfare is a law of consumption. Because the welfare law doesn't say anything about what's good. It only says something about spending money. What if it was about what we got for the money, what if that's what we were discussing? I think we should discuss that. Imagine if it was about how we give the elderly people the best possible care and dignity, the ordinary people who are in the '80s and '90s and who have worn out a lifetime, so that they could be allowed to say without an ideological debate that I would like to live in a free-care home, I would like to live in a private nursing home, I would like home help from the private nursing homes. We could take the ideology out of that debate and say: give people the free choice on equal and fair terms. I think we run our foreheads against a wall when we have those discussions. I feel that there is such resistance on the part of the government and the left towards this, and I do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234731	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234732	I have to say that when I heard Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen earlier, I felt a little set aside for the good old days when bourgeois politicians stand up and roar against us investing more money in our welfare societies. But now I can almost sense that there is a small part of it from the Conservatives. I think that we should vote out of the welfare law, because I think it is quite right that, when there are more elderly people, we should also ensure from here that there is actually enough money to ensure proper care for the elderly. Having said that, I would also like to repeat what I said on Tuesday: it is not just a question of resources, it is not just a question of money, because what we are going to strive for is an old age in Denmark from all those who are worthy, with choices, with freedom of choice, with enough time, and where, of course, you are allowed to eat some decent food and come out and breathe fresh air. Is it care for the elderly everywhere in Denmark today? No, it's not. So let's finally go into that room and soon become concrete with each other about how we actually do it. Each time we have decided on older people's policies in here, we always end up making even more demands on some of them out there, and time is running out of the elderly, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234840	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234841	Well, then, I think we should start by browsing the older issue that we have come up with a few weeks ago, when we come up with some very concrete proposals. I am not saying that we have solved everything, but at least these are some concrete proposals on how we can then do things in order to do good for the people who have made us live in as good a society as we do. What worries me is that, just after the housing homes behind the façade, last year in the Finance Act, it was decided that we should now set aside some more money for the elderly. And what did we get out of it? Actually, I doubt it. Have we ensured that the municipalities have spent the money properly? Have we seen that there is clear leadership in nursing homes? Have we seen that there has been an authorisation so that people who are not capable of dealing with the elderly can be deprived of it, etc. etc.? That's gotta be the way we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234927	We'll get an answer to that from the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007234928	In other words, I do not believe that, because a budget bill is being set aside, we will solve the problems that exist in the area of the elderly. Because what I'm experiencing is that many of our elders are lonely. They have all the time in the world, but not enough time with other people. I think that may be a cultural discussion we should have with each other, i.e. whether we are looking after each other well enough, but in my view it is also a discussion about whether those people who fortunately go to work in our older areas are allowed to spend time with the elderly, or whether they spend too much time sitting and registering too much time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235007	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235009	Thank you. The Prime Minister is wondering why Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and the Left want there to be a guarantee and a guarantee that we will earn the money before we can spend it. As a woman, I may be able to say that this is not the first time I hear a woman say that we can just spend the money, and never mind how we serve them, but I never thought I'd hear it from a prime minister m/k. That is not what my question is about. I just think it is a remarkable case when you are standing here wondering that this is a prerequisite for spending the money. The Prime Minister often talks about combating inequality, and Mrs Mai Villadsen mentioned it a little. It's in the understanding paper in capital letters. Six times as many inequality is mentioned. We want to combat inequality, but the policy pursued over the last two years is precisely, as Mrs Mai Villadsen says, a policy that increases inequality. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it true that there are actually economic considerations which the Prime Minister and the Government, apparently together with a red majority, prioritise rather than combat inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235124	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235125	But let us now look at what the facts are about the Danish economy. That is to say, when the Left goes out, as the Left does now, it is to find an excuse for not voting for a welfare law, and that is really enough. You could just say, yes, we said one thing to the electorate before the elections, but we will not do that anyway. That's real enough. But it is not a question of whether we are able to earn money in Denmark. We have the highest growth rate in 15 years. We have a galloping Danish economy. It's going well for the Danish business community. Exports are fine. Consumer confidence is good. Danish economy is in top shape. So we are able to earn money, i.e. Danish business, Danish employees and Danish self-employed. On top of that, we have been able to make decisions for a number of years that make the fiscal policy in Denmark sustainable, so there is money to cover the demographic trait. There's money for that. If you do not want to, it is a different matter, but then I think you should tell the Danes that you do not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235240	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235241	If the money is there, then it is no problem to say that it is a prerequisite for us to be able to use it, but peace be with it. When we talk about inequality - and I did not get an answer to that before - one has to say: if you look at the income groups that have become poorer as a result of the policy pursued over the last two years, then it is the case that when you increase taxes, as you have done 39 times, then unfortunately you have a situation today, where those who have the least are the ones that have been hardest hit. The 10%. The poorest lose approx. 1.7% I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. The 10%. The richest lose 0.9%. So my question is very brief: why has the Prime Minister chosen to lower the standard of living for the 10%? The poorest?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235327	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235328	I have to answer that question again about the welfare law. Because it is of no use that one should stand up in the Parliamentary Chamber and claim that there is no money to pursue the policy that the government puts forward when we have a Danish economy and perhaps that is what in some way upsets the discussion a little • where there is money to invest in our children and in our older people, but it is a political choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235404	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235408	Thank you, and also thank the Prime Minister for the nice words. I appreciate those. I have seen that the Ekstra Bladet runs such a concept with a confession chair out here, where you can come and confess your sins, and I have considered whether I should go out and confess that I am actually happy from praise also from Social Democrats. But I think I'll pass in the first place. My question, moreover, is in all simplicity and sincerity about why it is actually so difficult to debureaucratise the public sector. So we are in a hall full of politicians who all agree that there must be less bureaucracy in the public sector. And we have not succeeded. Moreover, no government has been able to do so in the last four decades, although all of them have tried since Poul Schlüter. I think the Prime Minister himself has talked about less bureaucracy in the public sector in the last three opening speeches, but nothing has really happened. I am a member of the free municipalities, but nothing has happened in the field of health care. So what really makes it so difficult to debureaucratize the public sector, even though we all agree on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235505	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235506	Without prejudging the rest of the discussion, I believe that this is the most relevant question being asked. Because it is true that this has been discussed here since Schlüter's time, and nobody has achieved it. In fact, I almost think it is the case that every government and every majority of Parliament leaves even more bureaucracy behind. What usually happens is that, in our powerlessness, if I am to be honest, we find it difficult to solve the major, serious, basic structural problems, the legislator in detail. Nobody mentioned, nobody forgot, because we're all doing it. The reality is also the reality, and I know that the Liberal Alliance agrees with the need for it in this way, and I also know that New Citizens sitting next to and nodding are, and there are others who agree with it here too that we should do so, we also have to let go of some of the governance and some of the control that lies in the legislation. That would mean, for example, that no, then we cannot guarantee that every elderly person gets exactly the same care for the elderly. I just believe wholeheartedly that if we dare set the elderly area free, there will be more elderly people who will have better care for the elderly than the one they are receiving today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235616	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235618	We are in complete agreement on this. And what the Prime Minister is replying to is why bureaucracy arises. But why is it that we are not able to do away with it? I think the Prime Minister mentioned the example of a nurse in a municipality who is not allowed to give two aspirins. But we've seen during the corona crisis, how much we can do in the Parliament too, perhaps more than I've been happy about. Why on earth is it that it has not succeeded? What does it take for us to abolish such foolish rules? I know it's gonna be a little bit the same question again, but it's because I'm really wondering. I understand why bureaucracy arises, and I also understand why one can have an interest in it. But I cannot understand when we all agree on this and we have such a powerful government, why we cannot succeed with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235656	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235657	I think the answer to why it is so difficult for us to do something about it is related to why it occurs. It is a dull spiral among all of us that, in our powerlessness compared to the big lines, we go down too much in the small lines. Now we have a common vision of actually getting something done about it. And when I ask a sosu assistant at a care center how long they spend sitting and registering and documenting, I usually get an answer that says: somewhere between 1 and 2 hours. I would much rather have that time spent with the elderly, but that then requires that we really remove some rules and thus some rights and some of the written ones, if we want to do this. We...
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235745	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235746	Then it is not quite that simple, because there is, in fact, also legal certainty for the so-su assistant that something has been registered, because the complaints are coming quickly today. It is a complicated but important and interesting discussion. I will allow myself to jump to something that I tried to address in my own speech, but which the Prime Minister did not mention here and now, namely this media issue. Now I am just asking you a little rhetorical: does the Prime Minister think that it is a democratic problem and a problem for our democratic conversation that the journalistic deserts, that is, the news deserts, as we call them, are spreading around the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235837	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235839	If what is being asked is whether it is important that there is a local, regional press which is well founded and which has some scope and some journalistic muscles, then I think the answer is clearly yes. After all, I have the great pleasure and privilege of getting around very much in our country and also seem to be able to see that there is a certain connection between where you have strong local media and strong local belongings. I think these two things play closely together. So if I am going to take it one step further, i.e. whether we can have a common task in, a common desire, when we start discussing the media and a future media reconciliation, to strengthen the local and regional, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211007235926	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008235929	Well, it's nice that we can agree this far, because otherwise the local and regional conversation is referred to the echo chambers on the social media, and it's not good when there's no one to look at our decision makers over the shoulder. Then the only question is when. For the last two and a half years, I think that I have been promised every three months, or at least every six months, by the former Minister for Culture, that this media event will take place within six months, and I have to say that it is probably the longest exposed Danish film in history that I have witnessed. So when's it coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000012	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000013	Yes, but now, after all, a parliamentary term is four years, and the government must also be given the opportunity to organise its work, and there have also been some other tasks, as the rapporteur knows, which have occupied us quite a lot. But some of what we in this assembly need to get to grips with is precisely the media negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000030	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000033	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech, and also thank you for the receipt for the school policy debate. There's some evidence here that we can find each other. And in this spirit let me ask you another area where I hope we can find each other tonight. I would like to start with a quote: we do not contribute to printing unfunded bills. The money needs to be kept safe, and the economy needs to be controlled. That is why we do not want to pursue an economic policy of footnote, in which a majority uses away from the treasury without taking responsibility for financing. That's what the Prime Minister said in 2015. Today, however, new notes have emerged, because the Prime Minister is now ready to issue new bills in the foreseeable future without taking responsibility for financing. And that is why my question to the Prime Minister is: With the positive spirit of the school debate, can we not find each other in that the Prime Minister was right in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000141	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000142	Yeah, well, and I like this tradition that's come, with old quotes of yours. For what the undersigned said in 2015 was right, and it was also true what the undersigned said at a later stage in another case. And that is why it is, of course, absolutely crucial, when we hope to adopt a welfare law, that we continue to pursue a responsible economic policy, as this government does.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000208	Sir. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000209	But why will the Prime Minister not commit himself to this? In 2015 it was very clear that money could not be used loosely without also taking responsibility and allocating funding. So why can't we do it today? I think there are many Danes out there who say: it is reasonable that more money comes with when there are more older and more children, but it is at least as reasonable that politicians also point out a way to find that money exactly as the Prime Minister said in 2015. That is why I would just like to ask the question again: could we not find each other in saying that we are not just making promises without having to deal with funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000246	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000248	I can have some doubts about how many Danes out there still sit and follow our otherwise excellent debate. I and we do not have a problem with the common, common logic of economic policy, but I have to say that when you go out with fire and fire and continue a tax freeze that did so, which I think most of you in this Chamber are still deeply mystified by the fact that a party like the Left, which for so many years has also wanted to be a law and order party, stands outside a police settlement, then it speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000327	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000329	Thank you. I can be pleased with the Prime Minister that I would also like to try to ask for an old quote. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister is still of the opinion that the Prime Minister, the entire Prime Minister of Denmark, would override some of our basic legislation, for example. the fault of public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000354	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000355	I am not entirely sure that I understood what that question was about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000402	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000404	I might have suspected that the Prime Minister just slightly failed to answer the first question I had. But I can remind the Prime Minister, for example. her tour of the evening show, which is such a fun show where it was referred to as negligent mink killing. There the Prime Minister made it clear that if the Prime Minister were in the same situation again, she would do exactly the same again for public health reasons. I ask the Prime Minister: is the Prime Minister still of the same opinion today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000435	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000436	Today, after all, the committee of inquiry into mink has started its work and, in respect of the work of the Commission, which is, moreover, a committee set up by the Danish Parliament, I will not comment on that matter as long as the Commission works.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000454	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000457	Thank you to the Prime Minister for this usual rounding. And I actually think I can promise the Prime Minister that there are quite a lot of Danes who follow a debate like this one, and perhaps not least what some people regard as the highlight, namely this round with the Prime Minister. And one of the things I hear from many Danes is that you think it is, yes, you almost use the word unforgivable about what the Prime Minister has done, namely that the Prime Minister in a debate in the Assembly hall called by the Danish People's Party and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in the last parliamentary assembly promises that there will be no warriors, terrorists from Islamic State to Denmark, and that during the night there will now be three IS mothers and 14 children to Denmark. And the good question for the Prime Minister is: Will there be more?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000545	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000546	The government's attitude towards foreign fighters is the same, which is why I am pleased to have repeated quotations. Our position with regard to the children who may have been caught is also the same, and the decision taken has, of course, been taken on the basis of the task force which has looked at the children's situation, considering that this is a worsening humanitarian situation around children. In addition, a safety assessment has been carried out by PET, and on that basis an evacuation of the children and some of the mothers has been decided. We said on that occasion, and I would like to repeat this today, that we still have a standing offer to evacuate the children, but not any further parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000646	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000647	So what you have to understand the Prime Minister is saying to us today is that there can actually be a risk of getting more people from the Islamic State to Denmark, namely the children? And it's just the kids? Can we be sure that only the children are coming, Prime Minister? For I am absolutely convinced that the Enhedslisten, the Radicals, the SF, who have been pressing this whole year in this matter, has had blood on their teeth, and we can of course hear today that they want both adults and children here from the Islamic State. Does the Prime Minister think the Prime Minister can resist? It didn't work out this summer. Can the Prime Minister resist now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000728	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000728-2	I have always believed this, and I still believe that there is a difference between the children and the parents, and basically I do not and the government basically does not want any of the parents to go to Denmark. The children are another matter, and I also hear that there is broad political support for this in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000747	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000749	Thank you. Several quotes: If you look back, you can find many quotes from the Prime Minister, where she says that the benefit system is really important for all of us, for our labour market, for security in the labour market. When Mrs Mette Frederiksen became Prime Minister, she also announced a fight with the Treasury's unqualified or exaggerated power and a fight with the blue arithmetic models, and I was very happy, and I thought it was high time. So thank you very much for that and I think we have already seen some results of it. However, despite my enthusiasm, I am not quite sure today that we have reached where we in the SF certainly want to be. For one thing, the deterioration in the allowance for new graduates is not what I want to ask, but something else is the look on the unemployed, on the unemployed, in other words whether it has really changed. Because in the model of the Ministry of Finance there is the so-called dormant factor, and that is the only thing that gives the job supply which is the basis for what we see in the reform proposal. So my question is this: has there really been a difference in the view of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000911	Thank you. And then the PM answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008000913	Basically, I am convinced that it is always better to have a job than not having a job, and if you lose your job, you are obliged to do all you can to get a new job. I've always thought so, and I'm a socialist. I mean, I was brought up with rights and duties, but duty before rights, and for me it is quite, quite fundamental, and that is why I never meant that we should have an allowance system with a built-in opportunity not to take the work that is there. I am fundamentally opposed to this, and I have not, and the government has not in any way changed its attitude towards it. What is then included in the calculation models is another discussion. Moreover, it is also a discussion we can say that we are jointly engaged in, but that is the fundamental ideological policy. I've felt that way all my life, maybe because my dad's a union man.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001017	Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001018	But then it will also be of interest to the Prime Minister to know that the trade union movement is very, very sceptical, very, very critical of the so-called dormant factor here, which, for example, is: It makes it five times as expensive to restore the level of unemployment benefit as we have had before, and that is both 3F, large parts of the trade union movement, Workers' Industry Council, etc. very, very critical of. And when all of us have also received such a benefit study here, which shows that benefit recipients are much more stressed and much more saddened, and they want a job, then I do not understand that we still operate with models that incorporate that people are lazy. Otherwise you would not get that job offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001057	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Well, I guess time's so much past. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001100	Well, it can't be that you don't do everything you can to get a job, if you have lost your job, and when we are in a situation today, where you have a thundering economy and a huge, huge demand for labour, then it must also be possible for more people who are not very many in unemployment right now in Denmark, fortunately to enter the labour market that has such a demand for labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001138	Thank you. We need to calm down the discussion on the other end there. Now it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001148	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech and also thank you for addressing racism also on its social media by saying that racist abuse of a family is an attack on all minorities. Another question I would like to ask is the issue of equality, where I know that the Prime Minister is concerned with it. She also spent a lot or some of the time on it in the opening speech here. But in the field of maternity, I would really like to hear what the government really thinks about whether to legislate in this area, because the quote I have with me is not from the Prime Minister, but from the Minister for Gender Equality and Employment, who, on the question of whether the Social Democratic Party thinks it should legislate in the area of earmarked maternity for fathers, answers: I do not think I understand the question. So I would like to hear what the Social Democrats and the government really think about this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001249	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001250	The short answer is yes, not least because we are implementing an EU directive in this area. We must ensure that this works together. I actually believe that there is a broad consensus among our two parties that it is very good that both men and women take maternity leave. It's good for equality. After all, I do not think that the maternity debate alone should be about equality; maternity is first and foremost a question of the young child, who must have the best conditions for the start of life. And there I have no doubt that it is really, really good for children both to have mother and father in the early days. How exactly we are going to do that, we are negotiating with each other right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001330	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001330-2	This is precisely what we agree on, especially with all the advantages for the children and for the fathers. This is why I am very concerned about it, precisely because the fathers must be guaranteed the same rights that mothers have enjoyed for a very long time. One of the things that annoys me about the EU directive is that, unfortunately, the EU directive only gives that right to employees. So I would like to know whether the Prime Minister does not think that self-employed people should also have the same rights, i.e. the children of self-employed persons, independent fathers and independent mothers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001403	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001403-2	Now I think I must be honest and say that I do not know every detail, either in the proposal for a directive or in how far the negotiations are. So I really don't think I'm fully qualified to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001416	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001418	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement this morning. I can hear from the Prime Minister that when the Prime Minister talks about health, the Prime Minister really wants to talk about corona. However, Prime Minister, the Danish health service is in a very serious situation. Lots of patients are waiting. The processing guarantees are slipping. There are people who have had their treatments postponed for several years into 2023. We have patients who fall between the chairs in the Danish health care system. I am surprised that the Prime Minister, in his large-scale conference recently, did not touch on health at all. The Prime Minister did not touch on it in his congress speech, and here in the opening speech it was well sporadic what the Prime Minister had of signals about health. What really is the government's more fundamental analysis of the Danish healthcare system, and how are we going to solve the acute, acute and quite severe health problems, and how are we going to solve the longer-term problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001527	Thank you. Then we get answers from the PM. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001528	I think we're gonna have to arrest a premise here. I have spoken a great deal of corona for a year and a half, and there are many other things in the field of health that I would rather talk about now, especially because we have so well managed the situation around corona in Denmark. What both I and we are concerned about is to correct some of the problems caused by it, it has to be said, very centralist approach that the Left has had in the past in the field of health. It has been quite right to build super-sickhouses, but the close health care system has not been a priority, and we need to do so because there are patients who fall between chairs who come into a kind of no-man's-land between general practitioner, municipality and rehabilitation and what is happening in regional health care. We also have the problem that too many Danes do not have access to a doctor close to where they live. In general, the distances in terms of health have become too great. So it can be said that there are some problems that also relate to past decisions that we must start to correct, and if we can do so together, then it is only good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001636	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001637	Now the previous government actually presented a reform to address some of these issues, and the government has certainly not visited them again over the past few years. Does the Prime Minister really believe that the way to ensure the future of the Danish health service is to build ten new health houses? Is it the Government's response to how to resolve the link between general practitioners, hospitals and municipalities, to build ten new health houses? I just have to say to the Prime Minister that I simply believe that this analysis is fundamentally wrong and that the basic problems of the Danish health service, whose ten health houses are the only answer to be found, are not really solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001718	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001719	No, but it is interesting that as soon as we discuss welfare more specifically, it will be either a little polemical from the Chairman of the Left, and it is such that it should be a little cozy, or it is just something to make some health houses, and thus one continues to undermine on the part of the Left, how important it is for the Danes to have a health care close to that proximity matters. It does in the police field. We are well in the process of correcting some of the problems that have been created in the past. It does in the field of education. We are in the process of correcting the problems that have been created in the past. The idea is also to remedy some of the problems that have been created in the past in the field of health. Near hospitals solve all the problems? No, but it is an important element of a health service closer to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001758	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001801	Thank you. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the speech. I would like to ask a few questions about what is the key challenge, namely the green transition, which the Prime Minister also mentioned. It is true that it is very closely linked that it should be socially fair, and that is where I think it is important to keep in mind, too, that if we do not act, it will also have enormous consequences, because it also means that people are losing their jobs because there are industries that simply disappear because of the green transition. That is why it is also urgent to keep up the pace of the green transition, and it is both in the long term in relation to achieving climate neutrality, but it is also in the short term, when we see in the IPCC's report that any reduction counts now and here. Therefore, when the Prime Minister talks about the fact that we must now take the next major steps, I am a little interested in hearing: what is the Prime Minister specifically thinking about there? So, is it CO2 and does the Prime Minister have any idea what level it should be at? I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister whether she can guarantee that it will apply to all sectors, for example. agriculture as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001909	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008001911	In other words, I agree with the basic analysis: if we do not do enough and do not do it sufficiently early, it will have major consequences, including for those who have the least. And I think that almost two and a half years into the parliamentary term we have succeeded in achieving what I am both grateful for, but also proud of, together with, among others. Enhedslisten to create a very, very strong green transformation, without it being at the expense of what characterises Danish society, including that the differences should not be too great. This has been well done, and it is, of course, the result of a joint effort and joint effort. And yes, one of the next things we are about to address is a uniform CO2 so I think we should live up to the agreement we have with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002010	Here you go, Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002012	Now the Enhedslisten is not part of that agreement, precisely because we want to have a high level of uniform CO2 but I would just like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that it must then be one that applies to all sectors, that is to say, agriculture, because it is absolutely essential for us to achieve the green transition, that the various sectors also have an incentive; and that is precisely CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002039	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002040	We agree on a uniform CO2 We also agree on • and it is true that Enhedslisten is not included in that agreement, but fortunately there are a number of other parties that have to do this in a way, so we continue what is now the Danish strategy, namely still high ambitions in the green area, but without it being at the expense of, for example, the economy of ordinary employees, employment, our competitiveness, Danish employment, the Danish economy in general. That, then, is what is being worked on now and, once that work has been done, the political negotiations will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002116	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002118	Thank you. It is very important for a democracy that the Prime Minister is available for the press to ask critical questions. The PM isn't very good at that. There is a broad view in the Danish press that the Prime Minister is far too rare to answer critical questions. And so I will use my question to ask the Prime Minister questions that many Danish media have been trying to get answers to for a very long time. It is about the Prime Minister being in Israel in March, and there she tells DR News that she has no doubt that it will actually mean more vaccines. So the question is: How many vaccines has Denmark got out of the visit so far, and has something concrete come out of the trip to Israel overall?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002207	Thank you for the question. I have received a great many questions along the way in the whole fight against corona, including about everything that concerns our international cooperation. I continue to believe that it is perfectly natural for a country to be led through a pandemic, including getting as many people safely through as possible, to look for all possible options. We have done this in the field of vaccines, for example with the trip to Israel, primarily through the European Union, but also with the direct purchase of vaccines along the way. I therefore continue to believe that it was right to go to Israel, just as everything else we have done, both what we have been able to see and what we have not been able to see, has been right in the field of vaccines.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002259	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002301	It's classic for the PM that she's answering around. I ask if anything concrete has come out of the trip to Israel and how many vaccines Denmark has got out of it. The Prime Minister does not mention anything, but speaks of the fact that it is generally good to look for opportunities. We must then conclude that when the Prime Minister cannot mention anything concrete that came out of the trip to Israel, nothing concrete has come out of it and no vaccines have come out of it. Will the Prime Minister acknowledge that it was a waste of time to go to Israel and that perhaps it was a wrong priority in the middle of a pandemic?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002334	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002335	Not at all. Not at all. It has been absolutely crucial that, at the same time as we have handled the pandemic here at home, we have also spent a great deal of effort on the international track. For example: I myself entered into an alliance of a number of countries across the world, some Asian countries, some European countries, and Israel was also involved in that cooperation. And it is not the case that, when you are involved in various international cooperation, you can say in concrete terms: that is exactly what did it. However, for example, the fact that we bought one million extra vaccines from a European Member State of the European Union has meant a huge difference in Danish vaccine coverage.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002420	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002422	Thank you. I was actually very pleased that the Prime Minister mentioned the European Union just now, because if you look back over the last few days, you will see that these are some of the most EU-poor speeches heard from a Prime Minister. With what you mean, our bnp is 7%. higher than it would have been if we were not in the European Union, 140 billion. kr. per year, 47,500 per year, Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane per Dane years. So much value is brought into the Danes' economy. 120,000 EU citizens work in Denmark, add 180,000 DKK. In the box with the state. One of the main reasons for this is that we have been very good at negotiating within the European Union. The European Union has been very strong in negotiating. Which negotiating partner will henceforth be the most important partner for Denmark in the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002527	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002535	In fact, in this parliamentary term, I think that one of the most disconcerting things we have seen was when the Left Party did not vote in favour of a negotiating mandate when we had to negotiate the EU budget. It was good that we had the Conservatives on the blue side of the Assembly to ensure a continued sensible Danish European policy. That was really, really good. Moreover, we ended up with a good result for Europe and also for Denmark. Who is our primary partner? Well, it's a lot of different things, because it depends on what we're talking about. For example, we are part of a very strong climate alliance with some of the other Nordic countries, Finland, Sweden, but also with a country like Spain, which is also very far on the green agenda. So that depends on what we're working on together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002641	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002642	Thank you. In fact, I had hoped that the Prime Minister had mentioned Germany, because Germany is a very important partner for Denmark, the largest trading partner, in fact one of those who looks up to Denmark in the EU. It is not France, it is not Spain, it is not Italy, it is Germany. Why does the government not spend more time bringing Germany into the EU as an important negotiating partner?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002710	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002710-2	In all due respect to what Denmark can do, I think it has to be said that Germany remains the absolutely dominant country in EU cooperation, and Germany will certainly continue to be equal to its size, its special history and its special role. By the way, I think that is very natural. After all, we have close cooperation with Germany, and we must continue to have that in the area of trade, and this also applies, of course, to climate change, and this also applies to rule of law, where I myself have had close cooperation with the now outgoing chancellor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002747	The last brief remarks in this round are from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002752	I am sorry to have to bother the Prime Minister with returning to a subject which she probably thinks she has dealt with exhaustively. But when I heard Mr. Peter Skaarup asked about the fact that the government brought back women from the Islamic State, the Prime Minister replied that it is not going to happen again, but that one cannot quite rule out the fact that some of the children are coming home. That's how I heard the PM. Then I thought that, of course, we can legally create a structure in which the women in the caliphate for which they have chosen cut off the right to their children, who can then come to Denmark. But the Prime Minister is very concerned about respecting all conventions. So how will she ensure that the children, who are minors, do not, at a time, one year or two years after they may have come to Denmark by the PM's intervention, avail themselves of the right provided for in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights for family reunification directly with the address of their mother, or it could also be their father? How can the Prime Minister, on the one hand, say that she wants to protect these international conventions and, at the same time, give a guarantee that if you take the children to Denmark, the parents will not follow with them afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002859	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002859-2	What I answered before I understood it was a question of whether there was an idea to evacuate more. There I repeated what we have said earlier that we want to evacuate the children and then a decision has been taken to evacuate women with Danish citizenship. Then we know that there are additional women in the camps who do not have Danish citizenship, and we have not offered them an evacuation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002930	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008002931	Thank you for that clarification, at least. It is just to understand it right: As for the children of Syrians and women, whom the Prime Minister then keeps the door open to help Denmark, she has no plans to make sure that they do not, what can be said, can be the way for the women whom the Prime Minister then does not want to help Denmark, yet come to Denmark. I'm sorry if it's a little technical, but I think it's very important for most Danes who think it's a shame that people who have sympathy for the Islamic State come to Denmark, and so do not share the government's view here, is very important to know: If the Prime Minister helps these children to Denmark, can she at the same time guarantee that their Islamist parents do not come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003014	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003015	There is nothing new in what I am saying here from the platform, because we have argued in this discussion that there is an offer to evacuate the children concerned. What that means in relation to international commitments, I do not have the opportunity to reply to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003038	We thank the Prime Minister. No one else will be able to speak in this round. But we're about to start the second round. It is so that Mr. Henning Hyllested has asked for the floor in the second round and there are conditions that they are maximum. Five minutes, and there are three people who have to ask questions. For the sake of the vote, I would ask that, if there are others who wish to speak in the second round, a word be given about it. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003111	Thank you. It is not to tire out the assembly, but after all I would like to follow up a little on the Prime Minister's much focus on our education and getting more practice into education. In his opening speech, the Prime Minister told this very good story with the father, who gets his school-tired son a job at a company one day a week, with the result that he grows tremendously with it and suddenly gets an identity and at all seems to have a good life, gets an apprenticeship, etc. etc. In this connection, the Prime Minister asks: What about all the other school-tired boys and girls who do not have a father with the right contacts? And there I just want to say: Well, I know what they're going; they're going sailing; they're going on a cruise with Georg Stage and the Schoolship Denmark; they're going on a raid number two. These two school ships meet all the requirements they speak straight into the story that the Prime Minister here tells us and that the government is doing a lot of work on. They meet the requirements of education throughout the country; they actually attract students from all over the country. And the training itself takes place on the wild dares far from the country's borders. So there's no complaining that it's not going on around here. And they also meet the demand for this interaction, which the Prime Minister also makes a lot of use of the interaction between education and jobs all the way up the educational system, which the Prime Minister actually mentions in his opening speech. Well, on the ships, the school is actually a workplace. A few figures: 90%. of the students who are at Georg Stage, the course completes 90 per cent. 70% actually chooses a career at sea. And it has to be said that they will be torn off the landing when the ships return home when Georg Stage comes home from the voyage. The large security company ESVAGT, which happens to be based in my own port, is one of those who really leave and who has pointed out that if there weren't a lot of students from, for example. Georg Stage, they'd have to hire Poles on the ships. 40% of the students actually later take a maritime higher education course. And 70%. In fact, before coming to Georg Stage, at least one discontinued upper secondary or vocational education is behind them. And then it is also part of the picture that up to 50%. Actually, women are. Therefore, it might be surprising that the government had not set aside money on their budget proposal for 2022 for ships to carry out two voyages a year ahead. We are talking about a sum of just under 20 million. kr. a year to realize it. It is really peanuts, and that is why we think it cannot be right that we should be fighting for that amount every year. Let's make it a permanent grant. I think it is part of history that last Thursday I had a very positive meeting with the Minister for Education and Research, who, after all, fully recognised the good results that school ships have in educating young people and bringing them to life. This was very positive, and I believe that the Minister for Education and Research will also strike a blow for the two voyages. So my call should just be to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister: let us now set sail; let us rig up and get out on the wild dares and give the young women and men a proper kick in the back and bring them forward • bring them on with an education, bring them on to work. Because that's what they can do. And that fully meets the demands that the Prime Minister has also made on our education, right from primary school and all the way up into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003601	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. I should like to ask: is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There is not, but we cannot vote for four minutes, because we have rules on how long to go from calling to voting. So you have to take a deep breath. We're voting at 8:00 a.m. 00.40. We can then put the next items on the agenda before then. It can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003643	The debate is open. I shall see if anyone wishes to speak. As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003658	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. And now we only have two minutes until we have to vote. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008003901	Then I will say that the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 1 by Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Mai Villadsen (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Jens Rohde (KD), and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 57 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and KD), against voting 48 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, SP, Inger Løjberg (UFG), Naser Khader (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), neither for nor against voting 1 (Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG)). Proposal for adoption No V 1 has been adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 2 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Alex Vanopslagh (LA), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Naser Khader (UFG), Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG) and proposals for adoption no. V 3 of Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211008004004	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 12 October 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
