ParlaMint-DK_20210525130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 234 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Epidemics. Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 235 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the right of employers to impose tests on employees for covid-19 etc., law on the prevention of infection with covid-19, when employers provide accommodation for employees, law on the obligation to ensure the covid-19 test of incoming workers after entry into Denmark and the law on the posting of employees, etc. Minister for Education and Research (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill no. L 236 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Educational Support for Higher Education. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Legal Affairs has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for 2020. B 299). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. The Committee on Epidemics has delivered: report on coronapas for tourists from orange countries. 26) and Report on adjusted model for the automatic decommissioning of municipalities. 27). The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130055	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130138	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. I would ask you to make sure that this is the right name in the voting panel and that, when it is all right, the vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), 0 abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 123 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130234	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 127 by Jep Bruu (S), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, KD and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 127 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 126 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Mads Andersen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Jens Rohde (KD) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130341	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 125 by Birgitte Vind (S), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), Stinus Lindgreen (RV) and Pernille Skipper (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 52 (S, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, KD and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 125 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 124 by Jane Heitmann (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Per Larsen (KF), Mette Thiesen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Jens Rohde (KD) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130442	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130455	Thank you. I'm a little hoarse today, but I hope you can hear what I'm saying. It is really nice that the government finally came to its senses and decided to take 14 children and their mothers home. But in the Enhedslisten we will not be part of leaving the last five children, who are still Danish citizens, in the lurch. The government has deprived the last two women of their citizenship administratively, so it is the government that has put them in the situation they are in now. We do not want to leave these children and women behind, and that is why we are sticking to our resolution, which we have tabled together with the SF, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the Free Greens, and I think you should all think very carefully before you press the buttons today. These are children who are Danish citizens but are now thrown under the bus if we do not vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130600	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote, but we shall just take it a little so that Rosa Lund can vote as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130618	We are now voting on the final adoption of the proposal and we can vote on it. The vote will end. In favour of 25 votes (SF, RV, EL, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 70 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130657	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130707	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 18 (DF, KF, NB and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 77 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130755	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130801	The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130845	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130850	A vote shall be taken on the final adoption of the proposal [and a vote may be taken]. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Thus, the draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130931	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525130937	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 86 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA, KD and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 9 votes (EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and is being sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131016	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131020	Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131029	It is, in fact, both for the amendment and then for the general one. I'm gonna save you two walking up here twice, so I'm gonna knock the speeches together. First of all, I would like to point out that we, the Enhedslisten, have tabled an amendment to this broadcast, which is about the fact that when you send people to war, it is a very good idea that we also count the cost of...
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131057	Do any of the Ministers wish to speak? No, okay, 'cause I had a little doubt about the talk that was down there. So I shall not cut off any minister, if it is. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131109	If the Minister of Justice would like to back him up, he should be so eternally welcome, I'd say. No, it is all about the fact that every time you send people to war, it makes sense that if any of the people you send out are injured, either mentally or physically, along the way, we will make sure that the costs are taken into account, because it costs something, and that is why it should also be put in proper place when you decide on such proposals, so that you can ensure that they get proper help afterwards. It is also about the fact that if you have local staff, interpreters, etc., in connection with the wars down there, you can actually give them proper help and treatment afterwards. Whatever we may think of Denmark's wars, and regardless of the fact that we may disagree politically on this, I think it should actually be possible to agree that it should be transparent what human and economic consequences are involved in waging war. That is why we have tabled this amendment on the part of the Enhedslisten, which is about whether we should not, every time we take a decision to send out militaryly, ensure that in the motion for a resolution and in the legislative work we are doing, we also ensure that the consequences are taken into account so that those who need help afterwards, because of these decisions, can actually receive proper help. Only the Enhedslisten and the SF have said so far that we will support it, and I think that is actually quite disappointing, since I know that there are many other parties that actually care about this too. So I can't understand why it can't get wider support. If there are other parties who think that this could be something that we should continue to work on, I think it would be helpful to contact me so that we could continue working on it in the future. But at least this calls for a vote to be taken at least in favour of that amendment and actually to take the necessary responsibility towards the people who are sent to war and the people on the ground who are also affected by it, regardless of what we think of the political contribution. That was the first request, and that is what was about the amendment, which you have the opportunity to think about just if you should not support anyway. Then, in relation to the actual deployment of the military operation to Mali or to the Sahel region, I think we need to mention in the Assembly room what has happened since we first dealt with the proposal. Yesterday, the Malian military kidnapped the president of the country, Prime Minister and Secretary of Defense. It happened yesterday. Today, the EU countries are out calling for it to be a good idea if they let them go, and it has to be said that it would be. But the Danish troops are supposed to go down and train the Malic military. We also know that in the past there have been examples of people who have been involved in coups earlier this year in Mali, trained by the Danish defence, and there is a lot of evidence of how Malic security forces have been involved time and time again in killing and assaulting the civilian population in the area. I think that Parliament should take a little more seriously and think about this before pressing the buttons and sending Danish soldiers out to train forces that are so difficult to comply with absolutely fundamental human rights and democratic rules. It is not only because it is deeply problematic if we see violations of human rights, if we see the civilian population being killed, if we see democracy being trampled underfoot, but also from a basic security perspective, we know right now that some of the things that help to support terrorism in these areas are precisely the ravages of these local security forces, we know that it is the lack of democracy and political anchoring that is one of the problems, and we actually know that foreign forces are helping to support terrorism. So if we want to be more serious about this from a security policy perspective too, then I simply do not think we can agree to go in and support the envoy to Mali and the Sahel on the basis that there is now and with the political situation there. So it is a call for us to take it seriously before sending people to war on a very, very questionable basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131457	I think there's something wrong with the panel. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. The Jens Roh word? Yes, sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131508	It is just to announce that the KD fully agrees with Mrs Flyvholm on the views that are being expressed here. That is why we are going to support the amendment and do not go through it, nor do we believe that we can vote in favour of the overall proposal. I just owed it to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131531	Thank you very much for that to the Christian Democrats. There is still the possibility that it may be a shining example to follow for the rest of you. Thank you, Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131539	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no more brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak on the amendment? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote, but we shall wait just a moment so that Mrs Flyvholm can also vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131548	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 18 (SF, EL, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 77 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)) abstentions 0. It has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131622	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131631	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 83 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 12 (EL, NB, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and is being sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131710	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131715	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 13 (DF, NB, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 82 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131751	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131757	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. In favour of 11 (DF, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 62 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 22 (V). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131831	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131836	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 9 (DF and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 64 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 22 (V). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131908	No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525131914	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (4 RV (by mistake), KF, NB, LA, ALT, KD, Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 54 (S, DF, SF, RV and EL), abstentions 22 (V). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132006	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132011	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 44 (V, DF, KF, ALT, KD, Inger Støjberg (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 3 (RV) (by mistake)), against 50 (S, SF, RV, EL and LA), abstentions 2 (NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132048	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132055	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 15 (EL, KF and KD), against 81 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, NB, LA, ALT and Inger Støjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132134	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132137	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (SF, RV, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 71 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA, KD and Inger Støjberg (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132214	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132218	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote: 28 (DF, SF, EL, NB, LA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 60 (S, V, KF, ALT, KD and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), abstentions: 7 (RV). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132316	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132320	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 17 (RV, EL, ALT, KD and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 78 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB, LA and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132402	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132408	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, KF, NB, LA, KD and Inger Støjberg (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132448	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (SF, RV, EL, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 71 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA, KD and Inger Støjberg (UFG)). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132525	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132532	I would like to vote on amendments. No. 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132554	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132604	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon-Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132637	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525132643	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (DF and NB), joined by a minority (EL and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 20 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 20 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 76 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA and KD), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 73 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For voting 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 75 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 73 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF, EL, NB, ALT, KD, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 14, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15-17, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133224	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133232	Thank you very much. This bill contains a lot of issues, but it also contains some things that we in the Danish People's Party think we should make changes to. Amendment No. 1, which we have put together with the Socialist People's Party, is about the citizen having to give consent as a starting point if his or her medical record from one dentist is to be passed on to another. It's really nice to see that Left and Conservatives back up. However, something that puzzles me when we in the Committee on Health have been discussing health data and personal data for many years is that we do not actually want to give the citizen the right that he or she has the right to own data or to decide who to access. I am surprised that even Enhedslisten is opposed to some of the amendments that lie in the area of personal data, where it is right that citizens' personal data should now be passed on to what are actually capital funds buying dental clinics. That's some of what they're making use of, hoping they can sell some dental clinics on. So I'm a little surprised that Enhedslisten has passed this. One of the other amendments that we in the Danish People's Party would have included in this legislation is that we authorise more health professionals. We have been able to see during the Coronapandemic that a great many health professionals, because they have not been authorized, simply have not been able to work. When they were allowed to work, there were quite different rules for a masseur if he had to massage a patient than if the patient went to an authorized physical therapist, for example. That is why we want the health care professionals we have throughout Denmark to be authorised to ensure that acupuncturers, masseurs, psychomotor therapists and others who have a health education without being authorised also come under a system where they are supervised. It is then to give citizens the right help in choosing the right places. But here only the Left and Conservatives back up. Thank you. But I think it should have a word on the road, because I think it is sad that no one else is backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133503	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. There are no brief comments. As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133517	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF and SF), joined by a minority (V, KF and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. For voting 49 (V, DF, SF, KF, NB, Inger Løjberg (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 45 (S, RV, EL (by mistake), LA, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. That means that Amendment No. 1 has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-11, elected by the Committee with the exception of new citizens? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 (DF), joined by a minority (V and CF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 40 votes (V, DF, KF, NB and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), against 54 abstentions (S, SF, RV, EL, LA, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)). That is why the amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133749	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133823	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133825	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133854	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525133904	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into three legislative proposals? This means that the division into three legislative proposals has been adopted. The vote will then be taken under the 'A' legislative proposal. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-16, member of the Committee? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken under the 'B' legislative proposal. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 17-19, elected by the committee? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken under the 'C' legislative proposal. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 10 votes (SF, ALT and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), 71 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA, KD and Inger Løjberg (UFG)), 14 abstentions (RV and EL). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 21-22, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525134030	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525134033	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-63, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.55.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525135556	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. Here you go, Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525135618	Thank you. What we are going to dive into now is motion for a resolution B 166 tabled by the Danish People's Party. The proposal seeks to impose by law on social media and other digital platforms a deadline for deletion of illegal images and material that is shared without consent. It is a proposal which concerns the deletion of material which is illegal under the criminal law provisions on child pornography, as well as the unjustified disclosure of private communications and images. The proposers propose that the authorities contact the relevant social media and digital platforms with an injunction to delete the illegal material within 24 hours. In addition, it is proposed to sanction non-compliance with the deadline for deletion by imposing fines on social media platforms. In the case of repeated infringements, a ban on further operations is proposed. In view of the background to the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution point out, among other things, that: to ensure that social media and other digital platforms are more effective in preventing the spread of illegal material, such as: children's porn. Unfortunately, all too often we hear about cases where social media have illegal content lying on their platforms, including nude images shared without consent, and child pornography, which is not being taken down quickly enough. To this I would like to say that the government fully agrees with the proposers that there is a need for social media generally to assume greater responsibility in relation to users and the content of their platforms and, of course, also in relation to the rapid reduction of illegal content. Therefore, in November 2019, we set up an inter-ministerial working group to look at concrete initiatives in relation to regulating illegal content on social media. On the basis of the report of the working group, this summer the government will draw up a proposal on social media. However, with regard to the motion for a resolution here, I do not think that this is the right line to take. I would like to say a few words about that. Because we have seen that illegal content on social media can spread extremely quickly and reach many millions of users in a very short time. So if, as the proposal suggests, we go in and say that there must be a requirement that there should first be an injunction from the authorities, it will undoubtedly take longer for the content to be removed. Therefore, we would actually rather see in the government that the platforms are subject to more direct responsibility for the removal of illegal content and that, therefore, the platforms should not wait for an injunction from the authorities. The platforms must therefore be in play themselves, and they must be held responsible for illegal content on their platforms. In this context, I would also like to mention that, in parallel with this at EU level, the government is working to establish clearer requirements for social media and other digital platforms, among other things. rapid deletion of illegal material, including specific time limits. This is happening quite topically in the negotiations taking place in the European Union on the regulation for an internal market for digital services. That is also what is called the Digital Services Act in English. The government believes that social media should meet with demands that reflect the influence they have in our society today, and that social media should be given greater responsibility for illegal content on their platforms and to remove it quickly. However, it is also important to be aware that there are no easy solutions and that the issue raises many difficult issues. That was also the reason why we chose to set up a working group to look into the matter. As I said, we expect to present a real initiative in the field of social media during the summer, such as: will include initiatives to regulate illegal content on social media, greater transparency about the content moderation of platforms, as well as concrete initiatives to improve the digital life and education of children and young people. Against this background, therefore, we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution, but I would like to repeat what I said along the way: we share a great many of the ideas we can see under way, and we believe that we, together and broadly in the Folketing, can achieve a good and workable solution at national level and with the help of the European opportunities offered by the negotiations on the regulations currently under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140120	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140124	Thank you. This is something that has been discussed for a long time, and the government has set up this working group back in 2019, and back in 2020 even our Prime Minister said that something has to happen in this area, and the Prime Minister said in an interview to Politiken last year that it is worth looking at Germany. Therefore, I wonder why the government will wait so long for this to put action behind words. There is a working group which has been a long time in the process. So when do we see anything concrete? Now the Minister says that a proposal will be made this summer. Does this mean that the rapporteurs will be invited to negotiations in this area? Or what does that mean? The Minister also says that it should not be an injunction from the authorities and that the government will go further in relation to it, and if that is what this is all about, then one could just make an amendment to the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140227	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140228	Thank you. There are several reasons why such a working group takes some time to work. On the one hand, I think everyone knows that the ministries have been hard hit by having to deliver in relation to corona aid packages and various other tasks that have been washed over, and on the other hand, this is also incredibly complex. In other words, the regulation of social media platforms and tech giants is a very complex area and we want to do this right, and that is why the government's initiative is coming very soon, in other words this summer, and there we will look at it here with the illegal content, which is also part of the resolution here. The question then is how we follow up on the government's proposals, and I think we should take that when the time comes. However, we see that there are both national areas of action and international areas of action, for example. what I mentioned in the negotiations on the DSA regulation at European level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140334	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140335	Now I'm thinking a little bit when you talk about how you're gonna come up with this show this summer: when? Should I understand the reply of the Minister for Industry that there is, in fact, something from the working group that has been set up and that the government is working on this during the summer? Or how is that supposed to be? Has the government received anything from the inter-ministerial working group that has been set up, and does it already have anything in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140411	The working group has reported, and that is why the government will now translate it into a real proposal on our part, and it will then come here during the summer of this year, and I think we will see that some of the things we have addressed here have also been reproduced. But there is nothing wrong with the fact that the working group has been completed. Now we are working on translating it into a political proposal, and we will present it here during the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140439	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140440	Now it can be said that it has its own beauty that the Danish People's Party is making this proposal and wants to have this debate up, given that this has been delivered to a block in relation to colleagues from New Citizens, but leave it at that. After all, I know the Minister as one of those who is so capable of getting to grips with complicated EU material, and I have had the pleasure of seeing it several times at European Committee meetings, and it is always nice to be able to see it, because it is of course complicated matter. However, given that you have that ability, I could be a little bit sorry that the time horizon has been so far, because we are many years behind schedule, Minister, in terms of regulating. And if we do not have to do what we do with instructions from the authorities, then that requires that we make very, very clear legislation. Is that what is going on from the government, and does it involve both copyright and everything else? Or what is the government's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140555	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140555-2	First of all, thank you for the nice words, and it always obliges us to have such a target. However, it is clear that if you want to go the way I would rather see it, that you should not wait for an authority to make a decision and to send an injunction, and that the illegal content, once it has arrived, should be taken down, but that you would rather have more direct responsibility for the removal of it, of course, requires a regulation that is precise and that can be a strong regulation at European level, and there may also be national measures that lie next to it. In any case, I note, in the light of our first discussion of an early negotiating mandate here last week in the Committee on European Affairs on the specific debate on the regulation, that it is a good thing that the European Community is taking a step further in relation to what is called the Digital Services Act, but we want even more on the Danish side. And before that framework is in place and regulation at European level is in place, it may well be that there are also some national considerations that need to be done, but I agree that if you want what we are proposing, it requires a clear set of rules, and we will make proposals for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140703	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140704	But it's a two-edged sword, sir. Minister. For yes, illegal content must be removed, but how often have we witnessed the removal of content which is not really illegal, at least not in relation to Danish legislation? And there is no openness about the removal processes, there is no transparency. Your facebook listing has been removed. Why? How? Will the government also ensure that in the legislative proposal that then comes there is a demand for transparency in all removal processes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140742	It is completely evident that this is a double-edged sword and that in itself it is a difficult substance to work with. One of the things the rapporteur is touching here is one of the things we are discussing at European level right now in relation to the whole problem of the country of dispatch. It may well be that there is something that is quite legal for a sender in Denmark to speak about, for example. abortion or attitudes towards terrorism or something that in another country will be taken down in an inappropriate way. So, of course, it requires that there should be a high degree of transparency, and we are also working to strengthen that in the processes mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140819	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140820	It was a question of clarification to the Minister about the reporting received by the Minister: is it a debriefing which has been made public so that others can see the reporting from the group? Or is it only the government that has received that debriefing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140841	After all, it is an interdisciplinary preparatory work which has been going on between a number of ministries. Whether it has been done publicly or not, I do not know at present, but that is the basis on which we, as a government, are now working, as I said, to make a concrete proposal, and we will present it here during the summer. Then we hope to have some good discussions on how we can set up a better framework for social media at both national and international level. I feel that the tech giants and social media are increasingly setting the framework for our lives. Try to think about how many hours we let ourselves manage inside our iPhone and various social media apps within a day or a week. We need to take political responsibility now and say that it is a political responsibility to set the framework for social media. I am not reluctant to agree with Jens Rohde that we are really being a little late on this agenda and, to that extent, the proposer here, and that is why we need to make decisions now, and we are then putting forward a proposal on that during the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140943	Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525140943-2	It is quite fair that the Minister is not aware of whether that work has been published. Will the Minister not here today promise Parliament that if it has not been made public, the Minister will publish it so that the rest of us can have the pleasure of reading it? Because I think there are many of us who have waited a long time for this report, and I think there are many who basically share the Minister's analysis, namely that this is a complex area which requires careful thought. So wouldn't the Minister just promise Parliament here today that the report of the working group will be made public if it isn't already?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141019	After all, we are setting in motion new and more inter-ministerial working groups to prepare for decision-making and policy development. Specifically in this area of social media platforms, it was launched in November. And there we follow the normal practice of setting up working groups and publishing such material, and there we will do the same as previous governments. I am quite sure that this is also the way we follow it here. I think this is internal preparatory work, which is why I am not sure that reports will be published on it. But there is going to be an initiative from the government, and it will be the subject of much discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141054	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141055	Thank you. Yeah, we've been waiting a long time for that. I remember raising the case all the way back, just when we started, in 2019. So I'm glad it's being moved now. My concern, which I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on, is that we should impose demands on Facebook and others that they should remove illegal content, fair enough. But what if they remove things that aren't illegal? My good colleague, sir. Jens Rohde also mentioned it. Is the government gonna think this through? After all, there are a lot of citizens out there who find that they are getting rid of this. Is the government going to think that Facebook also has to be held responsible in the same way? Also, what do I know, with fines or other charges so that they are not allowed to take down things that are legal according to the freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141146	Well, that's why I'm saying that when we deal with this case, for example. in a European context, we are currently discussing how to manifest this country of dispatch principle. Because there may be a lot of things that are completely legitimate and part of the general public debate in Denmark, but which, when it meets the regulations of another country, risk being considered illegal or otherwise something that needs to be taken down. So that's where we're working to get that principle going. And as I also said to Mr. Jens Rohde, there's got to be transparency in these processes, and of course we're gonna have to work on that too. However, I very much agree with the rapporteur that we want to remove illegal content. As a starting point, non-legal content is what the rapporteur says about freedom of expression, that we have to give our opinion on various things, and we must safeguard that, and we must take care of that in the rules and regulations we have to make here. And then there may be an intermediate category where it may not be entirely illegal, but where it is nevertheless harmful to the well-being of children and young people or otherwise. And that's the lump that I think will be the hardest to address here. But we are going to have a political discussion on how we do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141256	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141258	I fully agree, and it is complex. But I'm glad the government has this distinction between the three parts. Because I also share the view that there should be the possibility of perhaps vulgar images and all sorts. In other words, there must be some form of regulation, but there must be opportunities here and, at least, transparency in what it is. But what we are talking about here is that, because Facebook has become the modern Assembly House, it is the public debate that is going on there too, political debate. After all, that is where we are very, very concerned that Facebook can really get the power to decide to intervene in democratic elections by being able to manage the debate in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141335	This is a completely relevant problem. We already have it today, in relation to when to remove fake news. After all, we have the position as a government, and it was also the discussion we had in the Committee on European Affairs last week, that in media where there is publicist responsibility and where you have editor responsibility, etc., you can write about phenomena in the area of ill-information on health in relation to corona, but that article should not be taken down, because there is an editorial responsibility that has been taken. So there is a large grey area here, and we cannot put a line today and say where the responsibility lies, but I can just say that we are very aware of that very dividing line, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen mentions here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141419	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141439	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to welcome B 166 because it raises quite relevant problems in modern forms of communication. Just as enriching and present the social media can be used, just as humiliating and demeaningly they can also be used. In fact, what we need is the respect for our fellow human beings when communicating. Unfortunately, all too often we see examples of disrespect. We should be very careful about this, and we should even set up a set of rules for this. The need for respectful communication is a subject that we should devote a great deal of interest to, and fortunately we are in the situation that the Minister has explained that the government has taken the initiative to set up an inter-ministerial working group which is obviously also close to delivering or has provided the first input on what should be traded in this mine-filled waters. From our side, in the Social Democratic Party, we have ice cream in our stomachs to wait for the government to play out, mostly because it is important to get the nuances involved in promoting respectful communication. Because there are many nuances, as has also been shown by the discussion that has been taking place with the Minister at this time. The resolution focuses very much on legal matters, but the need for regulation is broader. In addition, a perhaps laconic finding that Denmark is a small player compared to arming the big tech giants, and here we should cooperate internationally, not least through the EU, which has estimated sensible tones in terms of ensuring good behaviour by the tech giants. So we are glad to see the action taken by the government during the summer, and we reject this motion for a resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525141723	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on what is a very important issue. Because as social media play an increasingly important role in our society and in our social debate, most of us may also see that they do so in both good and evil. So, on the one hand, social media has made it possible to get in touch with people with whom it was difficult to get in touch before. It has also given many more people a voice in the public debate. They have also narrowed the gap between ordinary citizens and elected representatives, for example. And it's kind of positive, isn't it? On the other hand, we also know that social media can be used, or perhaps I should say abused to spread everything from fake news to terrorist propaganda to child pornography and other illegal material, which we would like to be without. For this reason, it is essential that we from here in the Folketing are aware of the issues raised by the more dominant role of social media. And I would like to say that we on the Left are not just open to, but are actively seeking, in terms of how we create a better framework than what is today. This is both a discussion that we must have in the Folketing, and it is also a discussion that we must have in the European Union, which also has some directives on the way. Because this is not just a national problem; it is an international problem. Then I have written down to say that we note that the government has set in motion an in-service work and we look forward to seeing what comes out of that work. I understand that the work is now done. The minister has seen what has come of it. The Minister will not quite tell the rest of us, but the Minister promises that during the summer something will come from the government. And of course it's been delayed, and it is because of corona. But then you might say that the corona epidemic has just made it even more central what is happening on social media, since many of us have been sitting at home and have had social media almost as our only channel of communication to other living beings. Therefore, I would like to call on the government to present their proposals on how to deal with some of these issues as soon as possible. And what the Danish People's Party is proposing here, we also want to hear both the deliberations of the working group and the government about, because there are some issues in what makes it that, even if we support the intention that lies in this proposal, we cannot vote for it today. And we want to await both the reporting of the working group, which we would like to see, and also the political work that the government is putting behind it. So when we do, we look forward to participating further in this very important debate and we look forward to seeing the government's initiative. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525142044	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525142105	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. It is, of course, in the immediate wake of, and very much like, the proposal made last year by the SF, which was precisely aimed at removing openly illegal content. Although I can have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal, unfortunately we will not be voting in favour of it, because we have already agreed that a model needs to be found to remove illegal content from the network. If I do not remember much wrong, the Danish People's Party was exactly also part of the proposal for adoption which followed the week after the examination of the SF's proposal. I understand that the Danish People's Party has lost patience a little bit and would like to push the debate a little. We have been waiting for a very long time and have had many discussions about the need to remove illegal content from the web. In the SF we are very concerned about helping the victims, for example. have shared sex videos without consent. These are videos and images that are extremely difficult to stop if they have only once been shared and circulate wildly online. We also know that it has really great psychological consequences for the victims and that the subsequent digital clean-up work is just extremely complicated. We also know that time is a hugely important factor in these cases. It is absolutely crucial that illegal material is tampered with really quickly. This is a demand that I think we need to make on social media platforms, as they already do in Germany. I think that social media should meet with demands that reflect the importance they have in society today. In SF we are actually in favour of doing something independent in Denmark. We are a little tired of waiting for the European Union, and we can also be concerned that it may not be as ambitious as we would like it to be. However, since we last discussed the matter, that is to say almost a year ago, work has actually begun on making a proposal to regulate these matters at European level. That, of course, is also relevant to the discussion here. There is no doubt that if we have strong common European rules, we will go further. As I have said, we think the proposal is very good and we are also very positive about the ambition it has, but unfortunately I do not think we are getting anything out of adopting this proposal because, as I am listening to it, the government is close to having a model on its feet. Perhaps there are also some small things in the proposal that I would have liked a little different if I were to decide. So I think we all stand best by waiting for what comes out of the government's work. Then it may be that both the Danish People's Party and the SF's proposals will again become topical if we are not satisfied with the result that comes out of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525142421	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525142500	Thank you very much, President. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram other platforms have quickly become a central part of people's everyday life. And where there are people, there is debate and activity. Social media have provided more opportunities to express themselves at all times of the day. This is happening at all times of the day, and there is no doubt that social media are coming to stay. It's part of our everyday life. It was therefore gratifying that, in connection with last year's police settlements, we agreed that a strengthened response to digital violations should be launched. That is why there are more resources for police work on precisely digital violations, and we have agreed that criminal law must be reviewed so that we enter the digital age, even when it comes to the content of our legislation. Denmark is already lagging behind many other countries. Some people today have what is proposed in the motion for a resolution here, namely erasing deadlines. For the Radical Left, it is crucial that this kind of thing is centered on pictures and videos with illegal content, and not, for example, as you know in other countries, that it also applies to text messages and other things, because that, for example, is the case. in Germany, means that a lot of content is removed for safety reasons, without necessarily being illegal. And then it hits into some other freedoms, which are also interesting to remember. The reason why it's important to have a fight with this illegal image division that unfortunately occurs is, first of all, the many common cases we see in the press and in our mailbox, often weekly. What was normally shared in the class on Mondays on Mondays is now already being shared on social media with fast video sharing. And once it's split, well, it's somewhere out in the cloud and can't stop, scattered for all winds. That is why the Radical Left also proposed in a motion for a resolution not long ago that when there is a new greater division of images, it should be regarded as a new crime, so that a victim can again seek compensation. This is like beating your leg, and if you do it again two or three years later, you should also be able to replace it just because you hit your leg in the same place. Every time we have had this debate on new terrible cases that we have witnessed in the press, reference has often been made to a so-called inter-ministerial working group, and it has already been discussed today. But I just have to say that so far it has seemed a little bit more like an interministial jam jar. For it was first intended that some proposals would be made in the autumn of last year. Then it was spring, and then it was summer now here, and I just have to say that with the build-up of tension that is in relation to what is coming, I look forward very much to seeing it. That is why the Radical Left is, from the outset, in favour of the content of this motion for a resolution, but, among other things, in favour of it. It says that something must be put forward within the current parliamentary year, and then there are 11⁄2 weeks to do so. It is probably not so realistic to do so, and that is why we are looking forward both to the initiative that will soon finally come from the government, and hopefully we will be able to discuss it together. For, first of all, more attention needs to be paid to digital victims, and action must be taken, because it is simply terrible to witness the many crimes that are involved in this. And that is why we need to switch our efforts to the digital age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525142918	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Radicals. And I welcome Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525143004	Social media have come to stay, and fortunately for that one can say, because in many ways social media have created much better conditions for freedom of expression and for public debate. Social media have given voices to a great many who were not previously heard on the radio or read in the newspapers' debate columns. Our free and equal access to the public conversation is quite fundamental and an important part of our democracy, and I believe that social media has contributed to this in many ways. But the medal also has a backside. At the same time, the Internet and social media have become a place where women and minorities in particular are increasingly subjected to hatred, harassment and threats. And I'm gonna save you the messages that are in my own facebook inbox. I think most people in here can nod to the fact that social media have also become a platform for very hateful speech. This creates problems for exactly the same freedom of expression that social media have helped to give us, because hatred on the Internet leads to some sort of self-censorship. And that hatred and these threats are thus helping to prevent some from taking part in public debate and conversation, and that is a problem for freedom of expression, I believe. Digital violence and digital harassment have serious consequences both for people and for freedom of expression. And on the Internet, I'm afraid it's free to play right now. Sharing of offending content, sharing of offending images and offensive videos has free play, and there we in the Enhedslisten fully agree with the Danish People's Party that the tech giants and social media should be given a much greater responsibility to stop the digital violence and remove the illegal content that is on the web. We believe that this should be done in a way that does not have any consequences for freedom of expression or for our online activities, and without giving the tech giants more power, because they have too far away It should not be up to the tech giants, for example. Facebook to assess when content on their platforms is contrary to Danish law and thus to be removed. We believe that this is a task for the Danish authorities. The Enhedslisten also believes that it is not enough to impose a responsibility on social media to remove illegal or offensive content if they simply detect it themselves or a user discover it and point out that it is flourishing, for all experience so far shows that it is obvious both convenient and profitable for the tech giants to just turn a blind eye while these illegal things are happening on their platforms. The authors themselves write in the comments that it should be the authorities that contact the social media and draw attention to it if something is to be deleted within a certain time limit. We in the Enhedslist fully agree with that. We need to find a system to deal with this, because it is not quite obvious which authority should be able to administer such a heavy burden right now and at the same time comply with all administrative rules. We must also ensure that there is a more accessible possibility of judicial review if one has removed its content and thus limited its freedom of expression, just as one should be able to complain. One of the things we in the Enhedslisten will actually be proposing at the back of this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party is that we make a digital rights board in Denmark, and it could be under the jurisdiction of the courts. As it stands at present, we cannot vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal, although we support many of the intentions in it, and this is partly because it is a little too much like the German model, which we in the Enhedslist believe is somewhat restrictive of freedom of expression and which we have noticed that the Institute for Human Rights also has some concerns about. But I would say that when I read the proposal and hear what the Danish People's Party says about social media, I do not think we are so far apart, so I will not be at all opposed to Enhedslisten being able to create a joint report text with the Danish People's Party, which we hope will be able to get the whole committee on board. So it will be Enhedslisten's proposal on how to land this resolution. But thank you for raising the debate. It is extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525143430	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. And then we welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Mads Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525143451	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. Speaking of which, last week we had a question debate in this Chamber, which was also about social media, and we have also had several resolutions in the past on identity theft and what social media influence our society. In reality, social media are increasingly dominant in our societies, and we must ensure that we in society are equipped for digital development and the things that come with it. As we have discussed before, and as I have also stood here in the Chair and said earlier, one of our most important tasks, when it comes to social media, is to take care of young people and children in particular and to ensure that they are not subjected to violations, for example. sexuality, terrorist propaganda, etc., and that, at the same time, we are pointing out to young people that the distribution of illegal content can also have far-reaching consequences for young people themselves. As a society, we must try to shield our young people from this sort of thing, and this must be ensured by means of early and concrete action. In the Conservative People's Party we have to admit that we are now having a bit of difficulty in finding out what has been decided and what has been set in motion, but with the proposal here the Danish People's Party invites us to a broad discussion on the whole subject, and since time is running out of this parliamentary year, one could work hard for it to be set in motion as one of the first after the summer holidays. At least we in the Conservative People's Party think this is very sensible. We also have some challenges with the proposal here in order to see how it should be handled practically, but we fully support the intention behind it by the Danish People's Party. In fact, it should be better yesterday than today, and that we should push for the government to come forward with this initiative, so that we can discuss it here. We are certainly looking forward to further discussions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525143634	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. After that, the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525143648	I think many people have such a hate-love relationship with Facebook. There are plenty and lots of good things about it: the opportunity to keep old acquaintances equal and the opportunity to see what happens in other people's lives that you do not otherwise see in a busy everyday life. In fact, in many areas too, I think that Facebook and social media can be able to contribute to the public debate. The gap between parliamentary politicians and citizens has narrowed. I benefit greatly from being able to get in direct contact with the citizens out there and hear what problems they are facing, so that it doesn't always have to go through lobbyists and associations before it gets right behind these thick walls. Of course, the back of the medal is also so that you experience everything from threats to other things, and I think that you should be extremely cynical if you are not affected when someone writes that they hope that your children die or if you do not get affected by someone who thinks it was good that your parents died early from various diseases, when you are against raising taxes on cigarettes and such things. I think you have to be a cynic if you say that something like that doesn't matter. I certainly have a limit when it comes to my children or my family; then it is a limit that is being exceeded for me at least. That is where I think the debate on Facebook will be interesting. Because I do not want, despite the fact that I do not like the fact that someone wants my children to die, to restrict freedom of expression in a way that only becomes a certain way of speaking and certain attitudes that you must have. I think that the legislation we have in the physical world should see if we can transfer to the virtual world. After all, we have good rules about libel and other things that we must not; we must not threaten and everything else. But I am worried when I hear the word being violated in the debate, because often when you are offended, it is a subjective assessment. What may offend me may not offend some others, and others may be offended on behalf of other people. If it starts to govern what we must allow and what must be regulated by the state, in other words that people may be offended by the fact that someone is saying something, I will be worried, because it is a basic pretext for living in a democracy that one can be offended. Often when we talk about things that are really close to us and that matter to us, there is a great risk that we will actually be offended by it. It's bothering us. I do not want us to lose that, because I believe that Facebook and social media have become the modern assembly house: much of the public debate is going on there. But we must not make sure that it becomes some cloud of political correctness that governs what kind of debate we should have on it. That is why I am also concerned that what you see in some places and what you hear from some people, that is to say that it should be Facebook in conjunction with others, with the state power, which must go in to erase with a green harvester and erase plenty, without there being an opportunity for you to hold Facebook to account for it. I know that there are some other countries, for example. Poland, which goes in the other direction and says that if Facebook deletes something that applies to Polish law and freedom of expression, Facebook may be held responsible for their removal. I believe that these are the sort of things that need to be considered. I experience many who write e-mails saying that they have had things removed that were completely within the limits of freedom of expression to say, but because they either mention the unspeakable Tommy Robinson or there is a criticism or some of some ideologies or something else, they have it removed, and there I think it is limiting. So I look forward to finally raising it back in 2019 and having ministers in consultation about it getting started with this debate, and I am delighted that we need to address it, and we need to lift the task of protecting the freedom of expression for the citizens out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525144114	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mr Christian Democrats. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525144129	Thank you for that, President. Three years ago, a fantastic and brilliant book called "New Perspectives" was published. It was written by Jens Rohde. This book contains a number of recommendations on what should be done in relation to the regulation of the network. It is not recommendations I have made up, I have to say, it is scientists who have actually recommended them, and I have stolen them for my book and been inspired by them, among others. Frederik Stjernfelt and Anne Mette Lauritzen, who published a book three or four years ago, called "Your post has been removed • Techgitanter & freedom of speech • an excellent book. And the big rock star in this whole discussion about the big tech giants is Shoshana Zuboff, who has written the book "The Age of Surveillance Capitalism: The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of Power" and a number of other books. It's people who have spent years trying to figure out everything that's so hard for the rest of us that's not technically nerds like that. I've made a bit of a magic trick out of that, and I have a number of suggestions for the government. When I mention this here, it is because in my question to the Minister before I was mentioned... I have to say to the President that the clock here on the platform is not running, so I think I have unlimited speaking time and I will use it (the President-in-Office there are 3 minutes and 14 seconds left), because it is the case that if you give a politician a microphone, he will use it to speak in. The President-in-Office of the Council has three minutes to go). Thank you. I mentioned that we were years behind. That's a fact. And what I think is a little disgraceful and which, after all, falls back on all of us... it has nothing to do with the government... is that for years there have been proposals and for years there have been warnings that the time has come to act. That is why I can only encourage us to speed up this process a little bit, because it has been a long time in the process. Then I do not know whether it is the Minister for Economic Affairs or the Minister for Culture or the Minister for Justice who is actually sitting and holding it up, but I can only say that various ministers have said that there will be a solution in a moment and there will be something in a moment. But we've been doing that for far too long. I have full understanding there should be no criticism of or an evil word that nothing has come along that way. But the only problem is that even if there is corona, the world doesn't stand still. So something has to happen. The proposals that I would like to list here are precisely that our tech giants must be obliged by rules to have informed standards, and they must be covered by the principle that the limits of freedom of expression go by calling for illegal acts, so that we do not privatise censorship, as is the case today, where there are some Indian controllers out there who know nothing about our legislation and who are, moreover, poorly paid, and are set to check what is going on on Facebook. This is an unsustainable situation. There must be well-educated and properly paid inspectors to ensure compliance with the common rules of the game. There must be openness and clarity in all aspects and stages of the removal process, and we must ensure transparency in decisions with regard to the citizens affected. Then there must be a sharing of earnings with external content providers that help generate advertising traffic. Finally, and this will then be a more international European matter, there was once, in the United States, the courage to break up companies into several companies by force if they were given too much power. That's what they did with American Oil. And now I am using the United States as an example, because there is no one, but we should be discussing at European level whether there should be either a special infrastructure obligation for them or that these major tech giants should be broken up in smaller companies. In any case, this is a debate that is pressing. And with those words thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525144640	Thank you. There are no brief remarks, but now the clock works again. If I find that the clock does not work, I will rise when there are 1⁄2 minutes again, so that you have some time to find out that the speaking time is being spent. Now we expect it to work again, but otherwise you can look over here to the right. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525144711	Thank you. After all, the proposal is about imposing a deadline on social media and other digital platforms for deleting illegal images and illegal material. We would like to require the government to put forward legislative proposals which would impose a maximum time limit of 24 hours for deletion of illegal images and material of a sexual nature, for example. on children, nude images and other material shared without consent. I would like to thank you for the fine debate we have had here and for the receipt of the proposal. In the Danish People's Party we are very impatient. We think that there has been a lot of talk about doing something in this area, but the action has been kind of waiting for it. The dissemination of social media offers a great opportunity to communicate with each other, and if the social media are used sensibly, they are a great asset in our modern society, because here you can communicate, share and influence quickly and easily. But just as smart and fast social media can be, just as smart and fast, they should be able to get the pictures and listings that clearly violate the law removed. Unfortunately, it lags awfully behind. Because in far too many cases it turns out to be almost impossible to remove content that violates the law. Social media should not be used to distribute illegal and compromising material. There are also several examples of people in this country asking social media to delete nude pictures or pictures where they cut themselves, but without the social media concerned having responded or at best they have only reacted after many months of waiting, which is obviously very unsatisfactory. That is why, in the Danish People's Party, we propose that there should be a strict deadline of no more than 24 hours from being informed that the poster, picture or the like placed on a platform must be removed until it is removed. Since there is no reason to invent the deep plate, one can look at the experience of Germany. Because the faster a notice is removed, the less damage it causes and of course also the other way around. The longer it is, the more it risks being divided and thus coming into the possession of more people, often to the great detriment of those involved. After today's debate, I fully agree that we must find the right balance. We believe, or at least I do, that freedom of expression is extremely important here in the Danish Parliament, and I also think that we all believe that nude images and sexually offensive images or images of young people who cut in themselves or otherwise belong to a different context. That is why I am thinking very much of the fact that it has taken so long for the government, and the Minister says that there is apparently some finished reporting. I have certainly not received that as a member of parliament, but I would like to call on the Minister of Industry to send it to the members of the Danish Parliament, at least to the Committee on Industry and the rapporteurs who are on today in the Danish Parliament, so that you can sort of look at it. I do not think it is right that, as a member of Parliament, you should not have the same information or receive the same information as the Minister, if it is that you have to legislate on some things and there is something from a working group that you do not have access to. But I think there have been some fine speeches and also a good advertising kick from Mr. Jens Rohde about a book. It may be that you should send it to the Minister for the forthcoming negotiations we hope to have at some point. I hope that we will not be standing here again in two years' time and that nothing will still have happened. However, I would like to thank you for today's debate and thank you for the floor, and I look forward to receiving at least something from the Minister for Industry in this area. It will also be exciting to see, because the subject goes a lot across and also reaches the Ministry of Justice. In fact, I thought that it was primarily the Minister of Justice who was supposed to be here today, because it is about illegal images, but then there has been a change in the resort area, so it is now the Minister of Business, and that is quite fine. But thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145141	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145200	Now we are actually in a situation where there is no rapporteur. Is it Mrs Karina Adsbøl here too? That's what we're gonna change that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145228	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for having tabled the resolution we are debating today. Indeed, I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that we must increase the security and security of employees in the country's prisons. And here it is important that you, as an employee, risk having your personal information handed over to inmates who can abuse the information for harassment or worse. So the ambition behind the motion for a resolution, that is to say, that prison workers should be able to maintain the necessary anonymity with the prisoners, is fully supported by the government. The government's position is clear: public employees must be able to go safely to work and feel safe even when they are off duty. And the rules on access to documents must not be used to harass and intimidate prison workers or other public servants. We owe it to the employees, but we all owe it to them because if public employees are threatened or otherwise intimidated or worse for that matter, there is a risk that false weights will be added to the scales, if I may say so, and that the decision or decision taken will be wrong. In my opinion, the rules on access to documents do not take sufficient account of the security and security of any group. And for the same reason, the government will look at how we can change the legislation so that we can put an end to this kind of exploitation of the rules. However, the problem does not only cover prison workers; in my view, the problem also includes other particularly vulnerable public employees who perform civic functions. It can, for example, be done. be in the police or in the health care sector. In other words, we need to have a broad discussion on which groups of public servants need additional protection of their identity before we start to legislate. At the same time, there are other considerations we should consider carefully if we restrict the right of access to the names of public servants. It is a fundamental principle in Denmark that you as a citizen can, as a starting point, gain insight into who has actually dealt with your case. Access to that information may have an impact on the ability to take care of its own interests, for example: In order to ascertain whether there may be misunderstandings or even more important inability on the part of the processor. In other words, just as there is a risk of false weights being put into the balance bowl if the public employee feels insecure, there is also a risk of false weights in the balance bowl if the anonymity becomes too high. That is why we need to think carefully about what future legislation should look like in this area. Basically, it is about finding a balance between, on the one hand, ensuring transparency and, on the other hand, the consideration that public servants can work in a safe and secure way. As you know, we will shortly be discussing how the Public Service Act can be amended. It is also among other things. The Public Procurement Act, which regulates access to names. That is why I think we should discuss this issue at the same time, both in relation to which groups of staff should be included in a possible legislative initiative, and in relation to how we should, at the same time, best take account of openness as the main concern behind the rules on access to documents. The government can therefore support the ambitions of the resolution, but not the proposal itself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145626	Thanks for the speech. There is a brief comment, so here you go to Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145629	Thank you. And thank you for supporting the intentions of the proposal. I would really like to hear the Minister for Justice in relation to the future process, because now that the government supports the intentions of the proposal, but just won't vote for this proposal because you want to make your own proposal that supports the intentions of this proposal, what is the process of this work? I think the Minister for Justice is inviting us to some negotiations, and at some point there is a bill ready. But does the Minister of Justice have any time perspective as to when it might be ready?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145720	As I see it, it may be time to change. The work of changing the public law under which this comes will be about to have a process where we start by having a dialogue with the parties that are conciliation parties around the public law, i.e. the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Party of Denmark. Then we will spread that dialogue, and that will start with, I think, to address our supporting parties, that is, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten, and then the other parties of the Folketing. Then we have to find out what really is of the wish to change the public law, and that is where this can be worked out. Then it can be said that if it is going to be difficult, if it is going to take too long, then you can pick this element out, if we have got it figured out, to legislate separately on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145812	Then it's Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145813	Thank you. I am glad that the government is now prepared to look at the public law. After all, it has been a long-standing struggle on the part of many parties in here to get the government to look at the public law at all. Now the government has come to the self-acknowledgment that one would like to look at the Public Act. And then I can see that it has a long perspective to come to an agreement on this and now there will be a summer. So that's why I'm not thinking that the Justice Minister has anything else he wants to pull out of his sleeve right now, beyond this long process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145851	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145854	There was no question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145857	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Justice. There are no more brief comments. And I have to point out again that the clock here is a little unstable. You can look over here at the other watch, if it is, or else I'll get up when it's 1⁄2 minute again if the clock doesn't work. Now it's working. Then we have to get to work on the rapporteur's line, and first it is the Socialist rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525145929	Thank you. I think I can reassure the President-in-Office that I will keep within speaking time. Now I see that a watch has also been put on the screen here on the platform, so the risk of exceeding the speaking time is overlooked. By the members of the Prison Association, harassment in leisure time is 25 per cent. It also appears elsewhere that 50%, that is to say half of the members of the Prison Association, have experienced their full name being handed over to inmates. After all, it's quite violent, I think. The police union also says that there has been a marked increase in the number of access to documents compared to the names of officers. And, unfortunately, we see the same trend for other professional groups of public servants who are experiencing an increasing interest in who is dealing with one's case. Therefore, it is of course very relevant to look at whether what is going on today is okay. And I'm thinking, at least, the way things are going: no, it's actually not okay that our public servants have to suffer this kind of harassment. Conversely, it is also clear that in a community governed by the law there is also a reason why you can seek access to documents, namely that you actually have the right to gain insight into your own case. And that is why it is relevant to look at it in a slightly broader perspective than what is in the resolution here. That is why the Minister for Justice also, I think, had a very thorough review of the forthcoming negotiations on the Public Procurement Act, where this could then be part of it. That's good. That is why we support the intention. However, we would also like to see it in a slightly broader perspective in relation to other staff groups and therefore do not support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525150111	Thanks for the speech. There are no brief comments. I should just like to point out that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, is not allowed to leave. Morten Messerschmidt I'm taking over). We cannot do that in the middle of the debate. You can do it in such a way that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can speak as the general rapporteur, but whoever has been the rapporteur for the authors of the motion must be here to make the last speech. We need to look at the Rules for a moment. We'll figure it out, but it's definitely what I told you. It is true that the rapporteur for the proposers must be present throughout the debate, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can come up as the general rapporteur. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Morten Messerschmidt? Morten Messerschmidt No thanks. ) Then we welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525150243	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for focusing on a significant issue. Because it is a major problem that there are some criminals who are in prison who take advantage of the rights they have to obtain information that allows them to create the insecurity of the prison staff, that they can harass them and that, at worst, they can attack them. It is not just something you make up, that is, that there is a challenge here. A study from last year on the use of public access to documents made by the Prisons Association shows that one in four members of the Association interviewed have experienced harassment in their free time. That's too high a number. And 214 out of 432 respondents in this survey, that is, almost half of the prison staff surveyed, find that criminals use access to documents to obtain full names of the employees, and there are also some of these employees who point to the inmates doing so as part of intimidating and threatening the employees. Then we can see that access to documents is suddenly used as a means of real power and pressure, and that is, of course, a mark of criminals, whom the employees well know have no respect for law and order. This creates an unpleasant and unacceptable working environment for those who are employees in our prisons, and so it is some who must already go to work at the risk of being exposed to violence and threats. That is why the Left can support the proposal that is here today from the Danish People's Party. However, it is important for us to stress that when a solution is to be found here, it has to go on two legs. On the one hand, we must respect the rights of access to documents, even in our own case, because we must be able to do so in a society governed by the law, but on the other hand, it is absolutely essential that we, as a society, of course, protect the prison officers and other employees who are already in a vulnerable position. That is why we can support the proposal as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525150504	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. There are no brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. Then it is the SF rapporteur and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525150525	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for making a proposal to protect the identity of prison officers. I do not think there is any doubt that we have a problem here. In fact, I believe that both prison officers and police officers have a problem in seeking access to documents in order to obtain the names of people, and that in any case, the purpose is often seen as being harassment. I think that is clearly a problem and I also think that something needs to be done. In the SF we have actually recently had a meeting with several trade unions on the matter, among others. because there is a citizens' proposal on the way, which is certainly about giving all public employees service numbers, but the thinking is a little the same: that one should have the opportunity to be anonymised to clients etc. It was actually quite rewarding to hear all these different associations and their opinions. In fact, the vast majority were not so much in favour of the citizen or client not knowing the names of the person they had contact with. It was mostly because they were afraid that there would be a distance between them and the citizen. Some suggested that, instead, you should be able to obtain the initials when you apply for access to documents, too, so that you do not react to an immediate anger before you think and suddenly resort to violence or threats. However, I also think that there was a difference, because I also heard that the staff who feel very vulnerable, especially among our police officers, in our prisons and in psychiatry, and that something is perhaps needed there other than in the other fields. That is why I think it is actually very good that the government has set in motion a work which needs to examine this further. I think it is important that we get some solutions. They may have to be different from the subject group to the subject group. We look forward to it. We think it is important that this work is done first, and that is why we do not immediately support this proposal. Finally, I would like to say that it is also important to remember that there are other things that can help to dampen conflicts. It is a proper framework for citizens, a high level of legal certainty, that you feel properly treated and that there is enough time. I am convinced that in our prisons there has been an enormous amount of work to do on dynamic safety in recent years. There are too few hands and too much focus on safety, and this creates conflicts and poor working conditions for employees. I think we have a great deal of political responsibility to remedy this, and I very much hope that we will get to that in the context of the agreement on criminal justice, which we hope will be negotiated here after the summer recess. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525150819	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. After that, it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525150837	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on an important issue. Every day prison officers do a lot of work in the institutions of criminal justice, and it is therefore very sad to see statements that show that special prison officers are a staff group that is facing great challenges in relation to the psychological working environment and the strain of the harsh situation in prisons. There is no doubt that, when you look at the statements on how many prison officers are experiencing ptsd, this is a particularly vulnerable staff group. That is why, of course, the right thing to do would be to do something about it, and that is why it is an excellent proposal which has been put forward in its basic intention here, namely that if access to a particular case is sought, then you cannot simply have the name of the person in question delivered. This is also something on which the Radical Left has expressed its opinion in relevant contexts. We believe that what is important here is to see whether there could be other groups of staff where it might also be relevant, i.e. whether there could also be special consideration for social workers in a particular sector or other. That is why we would like this to be a subject that we are addressing widely in relation to whether there are public employees in general who need special protection, because on the one hand there is the protection of them, but there may also be the consideration of particular patients' or citizens' rights. For example: As a citizen, if you are going to the hospital, you can see through your app which doctor will operate you. It is a good patient safety and right that ensures that you can see whether there is now the professionalism that you want from the doctor concerned. Therefore, there may be certain public employees that may be relevant to protect, and there may be some where it is not relevant, and in particular the consideration of a patient right or a civil right should have a particularly prominent role. That is why we support the intention of this motion for a resolution, but we would like to look at it under one, in relation to whether there could be other groups of staff who also need equivalent protection, so that we do it all at once, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151136	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments. It is then the Enhedslisten's rapporteur again, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Wait a minute, we're gonna have to get the booze off. Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151158	Thank you. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party wants to protect the employees in the prisons from being subjected to harassment and threats in their spare time. This is an consideration that we can fully support in the Enhedslisten. You should not be insecure simply because you are carrying out an important task for the Danish state and for our society. I can also read in several articles published by the Prisons Association that this is a real problem. 95% By the criminal services staff, it is a problem that their names are handed over in connection with access to documents, and there are many who fear reprisals. That is not good enough, and we must have done something about it. At the same time, it is important that you have the opportunity to seek access to your own files. The right to know what the authorities note about someone on the basis of which a decision has been taken is absolutely essential to our legal certainty. If you first start censoring all possible information out of the cases, we may face a new problem. When you remove information from documents, the recipient cannot see what has been taken out and therefore no one can ever see whether the omitted information should have been omitted. However, with regard to the full names of employees, it may not be as worrying to do anything about it. It is already possible for employees to ask for their names to be removed from public access to documents, but this obviously requires them to be informed every time access is requested in a case where the name appears. I can see that far from being the case. However, as long as there is a clear way of identifying the employee without providing personal information, it is possible to omit the names of the employees without any legal uncertainty. However, I can see that the administrative burden will be very great, because there has to be someone sitting there who manually changes all the names to service numbers every time a public access is requested. It takes a long time for hundreds of pages of documents to be handed out. Or you have to come up with some sort of computer system that can do it automatically, and I think that is very expensive if it ends up being possible at all. So how exactly we get to grips with this very, very big and very, very serious problem is hard to see without getting a solution from anyone who can come up with a qualified bid on how to do this in a proper way, ensuring the right balance both in terms of legal certainty and not least to the individual public servant in this situation a prison guard. In the Enhedslisten, we therefore call on the government to come up with a proposal for a solution to this problem that we can discuss in the context of the negotiations on the Criminal Services, which we in the Enhedslisten look forward to having at some point after the summer holidays. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, but clearly see that we have a common interest in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in resolving this problem, because it is indeed serious that prison officers fear for their lives and their safety when they go to work. It is a basic task to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151542	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. After that, it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Mads Andersen. Here you go, sir. Mads Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151603	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. That can be said quite briefly: it is a good proposal. We need to do even more to protect our staff in the Department of Crime, and we need to do everything we can to make it safer to be employed in our prisons. We in the Conservative People's Party do not see what sensible benefit the inmates have from seeing the names and personal information of the employees, because that only helps to push the staff in the Criminal Services further. So we can support the proposal and are ready for further discussions in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151635	Thank you, sir. Mads Andersen. There are no brief comments here either. Then I do not immediately see anyone from the New Civil or Liberal Alliance, so we must welcome Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. You don't have to hurry so much, it's okay. Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151658	I cannot understand at all that what the Danish People's Party is proposing is not the state of things today, because it should be. That is also what I hear all the rapporteurs say, which is why I can only be a little surprised that this proposal is not supported, and that is why the message is given from it, namely that the KD supports the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151727	Thank you for that, sir. Jens Rohde. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525151748	Well, thank you. The proposal here is that inmates should not be able to obtain knowledge of the personal data of prison staff by means of access to documents or other means. And, of course, we would like to require the government to take the necessary legislative initiatives and to make the necessary changes to the administrative regulations to ensure that access to documents by prisoners does not include the possibility of being informed of the names or other personal information of the prison staff, so that the staff of the country's prisons can maintain the necessary anonymity vis-à-vis the inmates. This was an interesting debate, which is why I was just wondering about the Minister for Justice's speech, where he said that it was possible to support the intentions, but that this proposal could not just be supported. Because I have just been able to see here the other day that a press release came out where the government had just taken up this good idea and announced in the press release a few days before this proposal had to be dealt with, that the government supports the anonymity of the officers and thus also around the proposal. Another time, the Minister of Justice can just say this on the platform, that is to say that it is a very good proposal and that you will continue to do so. With that, of course, is a good suggestion. I would like to thank the Left and the Conservatives, as well as Mr Tugendhat. Jens Rohde in relation to the full support about this. Because when you go to work in the country's prisons, you work with criminal citizens, and these citizens obviously have no constructive need to know the full names of the officers. A first name for everyday work should be enough, which is why it makes no sense for an inmate to be informed of the full names of the officers through access to documents. Will a prisoner complain that it is enough that he can complain about the officer Lars from the second department on that and that date, and about what time it is and what the matter is about. Then the criminal services will have to deal with the matter and draw the necessary conclusions. And in relation to the complaint, there is no point in knowing the person's full name when compared to the officer who is known only by his first name in everyday life, because there is something to complain about, in other words, in the event that he subsequently becomes aware of the full name of the officer through access to documents. It just doesn't make any sense. Today, as a prisoner, the conditions under which our officers unfortunately work today are ample pressure. These are matters which we in the Danish People's Party are also looking forward to negotiating for the better at the forthcoming agreement on criminal justice. However, right now, it is a question of the officers being given anonymity, even in relation to the resolution we are dealing with today. And in the process of processing this proposal, we have also discussed whether there would be a single good argument that we should maintain the current practice of informing the full names of the officers to the inmates if they apply for access to their own files. And we have not been able to believe that there should be one good reason why it should be so. So let us do away with the possibility of being able to harass, press, persecute and threaten the employees and, unfortunately, at the same time also the families of the employees we have seen. Let us give the officers peace to do their job without fearing that one day they will come to work and a gang boy suddenly confront them with their full name, address, wife's name, children's names and where they go to school just because access has been requested. In the Danish People's Party we also recognise that there may be more professional groups within what we have also debated today. And that is where our health rapporteur has also had it up in relation to psychiatry and the staff working in psychiatry. But I look forward to action behind the words. And then we in the Danish People's Party would like to thank the Danish People's Party for today's debate and thank you for the positive statements that have been made about ensuring anonymity for our prison staff. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152202	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152217	The debate is open, and first it is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152238	Thank you for the floor. Freedom of expression is a cornerstone and a core value of our society. A well-functioning democracy requires a lively democratic conversation. There must be room for discussion and debate and criticism, even when the tone becomes sharp. This also applies when the discussion is about religion. It is therefore the government's basic position that restrictions on freedom of expression should only be introduced if this is absolutely necessary. The question is then: when is the restriction of freedom of expression absolutely necessary? It is a difficult balance between seriously opposed considerations. Social democracy voted back in 2017 against the lifting of the blasphemy clause. We did so, for example, because, according to the Criminal Law Council, the provision does not prevent even sharp religious criticism and because we find it difficult to see how, for example. The burning of religious texts contributes to the democratic conversation. So I would like to agree with the proposer that it is foolish to burn off religious texts, whether it be the Koran, the Bible or the Torah. So, in principle, I agree with the proposer that the blasphemy clause should not have been repealed. But there is also a real political reality, and I note that there was and is a very broad majority behind the abolition of the blasphemy clause. I intend to respect that majority, and the government does not consider it appropriate to support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152428	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief remarks... Well, there's one, maybe it came right after the minister was finished. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152436	Thank you, Minister. First of all, thank you very much for recognizing from the platform the need for an extreme stop-point, that is to say, such an outer stop-point, and for agreeing with us as the proposer of the principle. As the Minister also mentioned, Mette Frederiksen, like our Prime Minister, has stated that the review by the Criminal Code Council shows that the blasphemy clause does not prevent criticism of religions, and that is how it should be in a free society, but at the same time the Criminal Code points out that if the rule is abolished, there will be a possibility of public burning of sacred books such as the Bible and the Koran, which the authorities will not be able to intervene against. I find it difficult to see how we will have a stronger society or how it will enrich the public debate if we made it legal to burn sacred books. If you do not want to support the proposal, I just ask the Minister for Justice: how do we ensure that people are not subjected to psychological terror, as we have seen for some years? How, then, are we to take action to protect those citizens if we do not want to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152546	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152548	After all, it is a somewhat broader debate that is about more than what the motion for a resolution proposes. Last week we had a wide-ranging debate on how, for example, we could do this. ensure regulation on social media, which is one of the places where the debate at the moment has a character which, at least on some stretches, can be put into question by the appropriateness of. We have also seen other examples of debate which are hardly conducive to democratic discussion. So there I think there should be more elements to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152622	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152623	It is, of course, because the legislation would like to keep up with the development of society. We actually see the ugly face of anti-Semitism popping out all sorts of places we see, Islamophobia is increasing, yes, we have witnessed how our Muslim minorities and, this weekend, a whole family were overshadowed by racist acts in my opinion. So, of course, we have a responsibility and we have a responsibility as legislators to protect our minorities, and that is where I only hope, if we cannot support the proposal here, which was supported before, that the Minister will provide an answer and an action plan on how to protect our Muslim minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152706	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152708	Well, the questioner knows very well that we are already working intensively on the regulation of hate crimes and, moreover, action plan in relation to anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152717	Thank you. Then there were a few more brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152723	Before the Minister of Justice became Minister of Justice, we had an election campaign where the police used enormous resources thanks to Rasmus Paludan and his performance. At the same time it created images around the world, where we are not alone, but where there are many religious feelings around. I don't think it served Denmark very much honor. Can the Minister not see that it has a very serious price both in terms of prestige and economics that the blasphemy clause was abolished at the time, which the Minister's party itself voted against?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152824	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152826	Yes, and that was one of the points raised in the debate at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152830	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152833	And that does not give rise to further reflection?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152842	We are debating a motion for a resolution calling for a government bill to be tabled during the current parliamentary year, which means that the blasphemy clause will be reinstated as it was in the past. There is no prospect of a majority for this in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152859	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152903	I think it's a little too bad that the Minister for Justice has this hand-wringing approach to the issue. Can the Minister of Justice not confirm that it has never been forbidden in Denmark to burn Karl Marx's •Das Kapital • or Adam Smith's •The Wealth of Nations? And can the Minister for Justice justify why there should be special protection of religious beliefs that should not apply to all other beliefs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525152933	After all, we are back in a discussion that we have had on a number of occasions, and what I said in my speech was that when the Criminal Code Council went through the issue of the blasphemy clause, it found, among other things, that it did not prevent even sharp religious criticism. And again and again, sir. Jens Rohde said before, I would say: I find it difficult to see how, for example, The burning of religious texts contributes to the democratic conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153007	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153009	I do not think it contributes to anything either, but there are plenty of things in society that do not do without our banning it. And I just think it's problematic if you reach us, for example. has a religion such as Islam, which is also very much political, so should give it special protection that other political beliefs do not have, because it embellishes itself with the title of a religion. Well, all beliefs must be equal before the law. Surely we cannot have a law that protects one belief because it justifies itself in our Lord on high, while we do not have a law that protects other beliefs that have more earthly purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153048	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153050	But as the blasphemy clause was made, it was also a protection of all different religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153056	Thank you to the Minister for Justice and there will be no further brief comments. Then we will have to get the alcohol off before we start with the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus. Thank you for that, and here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153121	Thank you. When the decision to repeal the blasphemy clause was dealt with in 2017, only the Social Democracy voted against. The alternative voted in favour together with the rest of the parties in the Folketing. That is why it would be a bit suicidal to think that we could change that decision in this way; the majority is in fact. That is why we accept that there is a majority in favour of it, and that is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution which is before us and because I assume that the rest of the parties in here have not changed their position, but that Mr. Sikandar Siddique has probably changed his attitude after he is no longer in the alternative, there is no earthly chance that there will be a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution. So how much does it mean with the blasphemy clause? You can then look at that, and in a historical perspective it has not been so overwhelming. The fact is that one thing is the paragraph and the discussions about what was in the last paragraph or provision, another is what we really think we are changing, and that is what I actually understand the resolution is about. Well, we live in a time when korans are burned off for demonstrations and where religious criticism fills a lot and creates many emotions. Back in 2006, as chairman of the Danish Youth Council, I didn't know if it was a dubious pleasure, but at least instructive experience to be president of the part of Danish youth organized outside sport, when they had the Mohammed drawings, and traveled around the Middle East, in golf, and made events in Denmark with a focus on understanding what was really going on, and why we couldn't, on behalf of a Danish newspaper, excuse or actually take the view that a Danish newspaper couldn't show these drawings. And while it was all roaring and banging, it was actually a platform for having a rather exciting dialogue, also with some of the youth organisations in the Middle East who were on the barricades, but who, when you sat down and talked, actually, I think, managed to move. This type of activity is at the heart of a democracy, that is to say that one can actually talk to each other, even without it all roaring and crashing, and thus create understanding, education and thus also an understanding that we live in a democracy in which we actually uphold the right to go very far in the way one expresses oneself. What the Criminal Law Council said back in 2015 was that the provision at that time did not prevent us from going very far in insults and utterances, and I think that this is what is exciting to discuss with each other: how do we achieve that we do not let a few people's very conscious attempts to provoke and stigmatise and everything else overshadow what to me is the very core of a democracy, namely that we can have a conversation with each other and learn more about each other and also learn more about what these values are supposed to be? I think there is a great deal of work on this, and especially in the time we live in, there is a great deal of work in being clear about what values are Danish, why we really hold them high, and why we really believe that there are some values that are better than others. I think it is extremely important that we can have it without giving too much attention to some of those who are seriously trying to take part in that debate with, I believe, absurd means. So in this way it is a relevant conversation to have with each other, but we cannot support the resolution as it stands, even from the very pragmatic point of view, that we would probably be quite alone in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153536	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments, and I would like to begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153543	Thank you to my colleague, who gives a speech about everything but which I do not really think comes to the heart of the question. Firstly, I would like to say that my position has always been that I am in favour of a blasphemy clause, it was then, and it is today too. But it seems that the Social Democratic Party has changed its attitude. In addition, the rapporteur mentions the Criminal Code Council, but does not mention that the Criminal Code Council says that this is the ultimate stop point, that the blasphemy clause could stop Koran burns, Bible burns, Torah burns. And the rapporteur talks a lot about dialogue and good tone and conversation, and then I just have to ask: in which world? How on earth does the rapporteur view the freak show we have witnessed over the last two years, the psychic terrorisation of our children around Denmark, which we have witnessed, as a healthy and sensible conversation? We know that the blasphemy clause will in no way prevent criticism of religion, etc., but it is the utmost obstacle to stopping the worst cases of psychic terrorisation of our people. So that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153658	Thank you. I would just like to point out that when the President has the floor, the rapporteur must wait for both listeners and others who would like the whole introduction. So it has been passed on to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Now it is the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153718	I'm sorry, but I think it's a little weird. In 2017, the Social Democracy was the only party that voted against lifting the blasphemy clause, the Alternative voted in favour. We have not changed our position; we are just quite pragmatic and realistic about the fact that that majority exists. I understand, sir. Sikandar Siddique no longer represents the alternative and can therefore table a motion for a resolution, but it is not because we have changed our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153747	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153748	It's a strawman my colleague does. I was not a member of the Alternative in 2017, I was certainly not a member of the Parliamentary Group at all, so I have nothing to do with that resolution. Having said that, I would just like to say that this is a new approach of the Social Democratic Party, that is to say, because there is a majority for something else, you vote like that majority. Does this also apply to all the other policy pursued by the Social Democratic Party? In conclusion, I would just like to ask: what will social democracy do to stop the psychic terrorisation of young children who have suffered stress and trauma and who come home to their parents and say: are we being thrown out of the country? What will social democracy do if it does not want to introduce the blasphemy clause?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153827	Thank you. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153829	Now I think it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, who spreads the discussion significantly beyond the blasphemy clause. I think we all have a responsibility for how we take part in this debate. But, frankly, we have not changed our position, both I have indicated this and the Minister for Justice has indicated it, and we are just realistic, that is, that the huge majority is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153852	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525153856	Thank you. Now I quote from a poem by Peter Poulsen, just for the President's information: To protect my freedom of speech, I yell asshole after the neighbor. See, this very telling poem was intended to tell in 2017 that when you get to, for example. chooses to go for blasphemous actions, then completely blocks any conversation. So when the rapporteur is advocating that we should have a proper conversation with each other, and there was, as the rapporteur rightly says, the Muhammad crisis, and I remember that of someone, since I was then the political rapporteur of the Left, I have to say that nothing prevented the Jyllands-Posten from printing those drawings. You can practice religious criticism without being blasphemy, it is not at all that, but if we want to have a proper conversation with each other, we also have to set limits, and we certainly did not manage to put them before a man such as yourself. Rasmus Paludan during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154005	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154009	I agree with that, and I believe that the more attention we give to such types as Paludan, the less it enriches our conversation. I do not believe that one achieves a greater understanding by arguing with one another about how to prohibit or somehow prevent Rasmus Paludan from working in his work. There will always be those people who use this kind of thing for the sole purpose of provoking, and I just think it is important to distance themselves from it. Whether you ban it or not, of course we can take a long time to discuss it, but I do not think it prevents those people from speaking, and I do not think it gives them more or less attention, perhaps even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154102	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154104	But, if you will allow me, I consider that to be a very naive performance and, of course, not in accordance with reality. Who got the attention in the run-up to the election campaign and during the election campaign? And what would the police not use of resources to protect a man who had never had a chance to do the things he did if we had a blasphemy clause? Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154138	Yes, yes, and that was also why we as the only party in the Folketing voted against lifting it back in 2017. That is why I think it is a little funny that we are in favour here when, as the only party, we voted against repealing that paragraph, and I have said that we have not changed our position. We can just look out in the Folketing and then see that there is no majority, and we are still all alone, however with Mr. Sikandar Siddique and perhaps with Mr. Siddique. Jens Rohde, and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154207	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We need to get the alcohol off, and then we welcome the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154228	Thank you. After all, the Blasphemy paragraph was abolished in the wake of the massacre in France, where 12 staff members of the left-wing satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo were shot and killed by fanatical terrorists who felt offended that the magazine had brought satire drawings of the Prophet Muhammad, just as for decades they have brought satire drawings of the Pope, Jesus, God, Virgin Mary, Buddha, Catholic priests, Orthodox Jews, and what else one can think of inside and outside the great world religions. Should we then reinstate obsolete legislation in Denmark, which recognises that religious feelings have a very special right to protection against insults, and thereby indirectly legitimise the offended feelings of the perpetrators? No. Personally, I may wonder, for example, about a provocator like Rasmus Paludan and his almost morbid need to hurt others and their religion, but the best thing you can do to people like him is to ignore them, to pretend like nothing. Imagine if he had been answered with a reply that people had passed by and had shook their heads a little, he wouldn't have been the phenomenon he became. Only because people bit on the provocation did he have some success in his venture. The New Theatre showed a musical called the Book of Mormon, and it is quite fun and deeply blasphemous, and when we came out of the theatre after the premiere, some stood and distributed the real thing, that is to say the Book of Mormons, and it was simply the Mormons themselves who showed profit and took advantage of the attention that had suddenly come about their religion. I think you can figure out what had happened if the New Theatre instead had shown a musical about the Prophet Muhammad. I do not think that the only way was to leave free copies of the Koran afterwards, but that is the right way to attack that kind of thing. It is no use negotiating with terrorists, it is no use giving in to their demands, because the bar is just constantly being put down and being put down, and although we in this room may well agree that Rasmus Paludan's burns of the Koran are primitive provocations, and that we will probably not suffer any great loss by being in addition to them, the next step will be just to discuss: What then? There are Danish teachers who live with police protection and secret address simply because they have shown the Muhammad drawings in the teaching. In France, the teacher Samuel Paty recently had his throat cut for doing the same. The abolition of the blasphemy clause would thus be a kneesliding of perpetrators and terrorists. I understand that one might find it unnecessary and insulting to see one's religion ridiculed, but it is a condition in a free society, and my best advice would be either to speak up with words or to find the python. And if you believe in an almighty God, as I personally do, then you have to believe that there's gonna be a little more to knock him off course than a few jokes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154622	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique (UFG). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154627	I was prepared, of course, that the debate would take a populist turn, but that it would be my good colleague, Jan E. Jørgensen, who would see to it that surprises me anyway. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen knows very well that the Mohammed drawings could not be prevented by a blasphemy clause. The Criminal Code Council has also concluded in their report that the main conclusions were that there would still be high ceilings in relation to religious criticism, and of course there should be. So to link the two things together, I think it's unspeakable. We've spent over 100 million. kr. on a man, such as... in France is on a list of threats to the security of the country and which are prohibited from entering different countries. In Denmark, he's being protected as a president...
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154738	I'd like to ask you, sir. Sikandar Siddique to keep to the speaking time. Here you go to the rapporteur. Sikandar Siddique I didn't have time to ask the question). No, but I would ask once again that we keep to the speaking time and that I should not be allowed to stand up and ask for the end of your speech. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154749	Thank you. I don't like to be accused of populism, but I do. So Sikandar Siddique himself. But there were more who reported the drawings to the police because they thought it was blasphemy. And precisely because the prosecution said that it was not covered by the blasphemy clause, I was even more convinced that this was another reason for abolishing it, because then it provides some false protection. Then one can stand and say as violated, in this case Muslim: there is no protection in the law. Denmark has a blasphemy clause, but it cannot even be used to intervene against these deeply offensive and offensive drawings. And then, in reality, you just risk making worse instead of saying: yes, you can do that in Denmark. Why is it necessary to spend so much money on police protection by Mr. Rasmus Paludan? Sikandar Siddique forgets to say. Well, that's because somebody can't let Mr. Chandler. Rasmus Paludan be in peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154901	Anti-Semitism is increasing, Islamophobia is increasing. I have had children visiting in here with their parents who say that their children go to the psychologist because they are traumatized by Rasmus Paludan coming up in front of their school and saying all sorts of abusive words that I cannot say here. The Blasphemy paragraph allows religious criticism, allows drawings and everything else. It's just the last stop. If we'd had the blasphemy clause, you could have set in against Paludan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154932	I mean, I think the concepts get messed up. I fully agree that there is anti-Semitism in Denmark. I agree that there is racism in Denmark, and I think that is deeply unpleasant, but that is not what we are discussing today. Today we are discussing blasphemy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154948	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525154951	Actually, I'm a little puffy. Jan E. Jørgensen, because I think it is beneath the dignity of the rapporteur to make that link and the obvious strawman between the knees of terrorism and support for the restoration of the blasphemy clause. I would also like to say that this is a historyless matter in relation to the rapporteur's own party. For many years there have been discussions in the Left about the blasphemy clause, and there were some very clear divisions in the group. But it was completely unthinkable at the time when Mr. Christian Mejdahl and Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech sat in the group that the Left could vote in favour of repealing the blasphemy clause. Those discussions have been there over all the years, and that has nothing to do with terrorism. That's why I think that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen must find some better arguments than using knees for terrorism, because you actually have a respect for some religious feelings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155056	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155058	Now I was so opposed to Mr. Jens Rohde, Member of the Left, when we decided to abolish the blasphemy clause, and it was very much what we had seen in France that was crucial for us to adopt the attitude that we did, moreover, after the Criminal Law Council had done a rather thorough and thorough review of the provision. What I am saying is that if that link is not present now, at a time when there are people living under police protection, because others think that they have behaved blasphemy, then everything will stop. So, there are people who become so angry at seeing their faith, their prophet, their god being violated, that they threaten with • and in some cases take serious action to cut the throats of others. That is not something we can just ignore when we are discussing blasphemy. Maybe it's uncomfortable for sir. Jens Rohde, but that's reality. It would be to give up our views on freedom of expression if, if I may say so, we were to give in to those who believe that we should once again criminalise blasphemy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155203	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155205	But there's still a logical flaw. And that just shows you're reacting to emotions. Because there is an attack in France, we really must show that we are now doing this, so that we can become even more harsh in our criticism. I would like to point out that the blasphemy clause never intended to protect Muslims specifically or anything in this respect. In fact, they are also religious feelings of Danish Christians. It had that as its purpose; and therefore it is absolutely absurd just to turn the blasphemy clause into a discussion on terrorism. That's completely out of order, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155243	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155245	Well, thank you for the information. I was so aware of that. The last indictment was made after the blasphemy decree, when Trille had sung a song about God's eye in the high places back in 1970. And the previous time was in connection with a mask ball in a local section of a union, where some had performed a christening and had put on a priesthood dress and had baptized a small doll. They were convicted of that at the time. Much has happened since then, thankfully for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155318	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. After that, it is the turn of the DF's rapporteur, and it is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155347	Thank you, President. It has been interesting to follow the debate so far, because it is a little unclear what this proposal really wants to achieve. We have heard that this is about preventing violent abuse or unpleasantness towards minority groups, whether Jews or Muslims or others, and that it is thought that criminalisation of what would then be called blasphemy should prevent it. In this respect, it is so relevant to look at those countries in Europe which continue to criminalise blasphemy. As I understand it, these are all or part of countries such as Austria, Italy, Germany and Spain. What one must then ask oneself, of course, if one considers that the implementation of this proposal will lead to fewer of the abuses, the cases mentioned, if in those countries where blasphemy is criminalised, there are also fewer attacks on minorities. It has to be said that this is not the case. Unfortunately, in both Austria and Germany, and in Italy and Spain too, there is no significantly lower tendency to attack minorities than in those countries where you have a free word, so to speak. So the whole premise of this proposal falls away, so the evidence is quite simply missing. Freedom of expression will be curtailed in order to achieve an objective that does not seem to be an empire to achieve. Since we had the blasphemy provision until 2017 in Denmark, it was used quite, quite rarely. I believe that as far back as the 30s and 40s, we need to find cases where there has actually been a conviction. And I think it has to be said that the very excessive interpretation of the blasphemy provision, which among other things. The authors of the motion for a resolution are based on, or at least express here, not fully reflect the case-law in force up to the latest abolition. That is why I think this is a parade proposal which has not really thought about what you really want, but is probably trying to please some groups in society who are sitting with a sense of being ill-treated, whether justified or unjustified. It is, of course, the case in a Christian society that, to a large extent, there must be tolerance to conduct as long as it is not a criminal, in other words, in the sense that Jesus was incredibly provocative throughout his work. At least the Jews thought so if you read the New Testament. You could say that Jesus was almost an agent provocateur. If you came and hit him on one cheek, he said you had to hit the other too. Well, it must be very, very provocative to experience. And that is why, in a Danish Christian context, it would be strange to reinstate a blasphemy clause, especially if it were to have such a full meaning as I can understand the authors of the motion for a resolution. You have to see things in a modern context. So, what was the direct reason for abolishing the old section 140 was of course not the discussion about the New Testament, or as I heard one of the rapporteurs say: burning the Torah. I have no memory that such a thing has taken place in Denmark, and I certainly do not hope so. But, of course, about the up-to-date debate on Islam through Theo van Gogh's film about Mrs Hirsi Ali, the Submission and the Danish debate in relation to the Muhammed Drawings, one has to say that we are in a conflict between two outlooks on life, which is the main issue when we talk about blasphemy and freedom of speech, namely an Islamic outlook on life, which is basically based on blasphemy being a gross violation and that violation must be claimed by the law. Islam does not, of course, have a separation between religious and political, and is therefore seeking to achieve heavenly goals with worldly laws. It is an unknown phenomenon for Christian thinking, in which we seek to separate the two things. And for that reason alone, but also because I can now see that my speaking time has been spent, we are going to put an end to this proposal for rejection. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155900	Thank you. It was the Minister who mentioned the burning of the Tora, and not a rapporteur, but it is quite okay. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525155915	I think these are very interesting points of view, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt expresses the fact that I believe that many of the spiritually related, politically related people to Morten Messerschmidt, who are also trying to promote Christianity and do something for it and its protection, link the abolition of the blasphemy clause with such a cultural liberal trend, which I have always heard Mr. Morten Messerschmidt against. Several views and reading letters can be found about this, not least in Christian Dagblade. What's sir? Morten Messerschmidt's answer to these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160008	It is that we have to see this in a modern context, and with it, I think 500-year history, we have for the blasphemy clause I remember, but there maybe the Minister of Justice can correct me, it is introduced in 1688 with the Danish Law for the first time, and then it is carried on with Ørsted's amendment to the penal code. And it is clear that in the conflict we find ourselves in between Islam and the West, it is extremely important that we are on the side of freedom of expression and the concerns that in some Christian circles, such as Mr. Jens Rohde mentions may speak for protection, I think pales beside the conflict we find ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160100	If we now take the cultural liberalism, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt always disagrees, which also includes the belief in education and the belief that it is simply something to pack away, because it is something completely private, so it is certainly not connected, if that is the expression which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt wishes to express his views here. Then it doesn't add up in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160139	Yeah, that's a good thing. I do not want, and certainly not here from Parliament's platform, to encourage people to believe something specific, at least not in a religious sense. So I consider these things to be completely separate. I think most Christians can live with the sending of Life of Brian and that some artists make obscene representations of Christ. I have never experienced the delicateness that is found in some Muslim circles, because there are some who make a picture of Muhammad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160216	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160219	Thank you, Mr President. In 2015, the Criminal Code Council estimated that even if you have a blasphemy clause, you can criticise religions all you want. And we also know that, in relation to the Mohammed drawings, the Attorney General assessed it and said that the blasphemy clause or the racism clause could not prevent those drawings. So what's left? There are tora burns, Bible burns. So, in order not to misunderstand the rapporteur, I would just like to ask quite specifically: is it the position of the rapporteur that it should be okay to burn off the Bible and that it should be okay to burn off the Torah and that it should be okay to burn off the Koran, and does the rapporteur think that this leads to a sober conversation and a democratic conversation? In other words, does the rapporteur really believe that our level of debate in an enlightened society should be so primitive?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160316	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160317	Well, these are two very different questions in one. The first question must obviously be answered with yes, of course, it must be lawful to burn sacred writings. I think it must be quite obvious that the consideration of being allowed to say something stupid is much more important than that others should decide what is wise and what is stupid. Does this lead to a good democratic conversation? I have to say with just as much clarity that it hardly does. Well, I don't know anyone. I don't think there's so many people in here doing that besides the now much-discussed sir. Paludan, who excels in walking around and burning Korans off, and he only does that because somebody wants to write about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160401	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160402	But then we come to the crux of the matter here, because the blasphemy clause does not prevent religious criticism, it does not prevent us from being critical of religions and making drawings etc. etc. This is the ultimate stop point where we can prevent society from spending 100 million. kr. on a freak show where our religious minorities are psychologically terrorised, where our debate level becomes as primitive as it does. That's the last stop. After all, the rapporteur can still criticise religions and do everything he wants, even if there is a blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160440	But this is where there is no causality between what Mr. Sikandar Siddique says, and the proposal he has made for two reasons. First of all, there would have been nothing to prevent somebody burning the Koran from being punished by a number of daily penalties following a new blasphemy clause and then still being a politician and having to have the protection which Mr. Sikandar Siddique has estimated at 100 million. kr. There would be nothing to prevent that from happening. It punishes an act, but it does not prevent an action. After all, there are many examples of this. Second, sir. Sikandar Siddique still needs to prove that in European countries where it has still been criminalised and the blasphemy provision is still there should be fewer of these cases than there are in those countries where it is legal to be a blasphemer. I haven't heard the evidence yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160521	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who would like to come up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160542	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens to make the proposal. This is clearly an important debate which is the basis for this proposal and which I think is important to take. I must be quite clear from the outset and say that we voted in the SF to abolish the blasphemy clause. Moreover, this is something that we have taken a position on many, many years ago and not only at the time when we voted in favour of abolition. But that also means that we will not be voting in favour of re-establishment. At that time, we stressed that it restricted freedom of expression and that it could also send a signal to undemocratic countries that criminalise blasphemy. And that's what we're still saying. We should not have laws that potentially undermine criticism of religions and religious authorities. However, I understand the intention behind the proposal put forward, and it seems that the resolution is largely motivated by what the abolition meant in relation to Koran burns. When the paragraph was abolished, it led to a cancellation of an ongoing case in North Jutland, where a man had burned off a Koran in his garden. And probably not many of us could predict that wave of Koran burns up against the 2019 elections, among others. On Nørrebro, who received a great deal of media attention. And allow me to stress that under no circumstances do I support Koran burns and that they take place. Basically, however, I believe that laws should protect people and not religions, and that also applies to the protection of the right to express oneself freely, even if one does not necessarily agree with what is being said. That does not mean that I am not worried about the debate and the tone of debate today, because it seems that there has been a violent outburst in the debate at several levels in society, for example. when burning off Korans in vulnerable residential areas. In fact, I think this is a disrespectful act and it is a huge provocation in relation to the people who live there. I am also concerned about the raison d'être we are looking at on social media. I think that the level of commentary on hatred has reached a level that is not healthy for a democracy. It keeps people from participating. So there is clearly a need to do something. I just do not think that the good solutions are queued up unless, of course, what is going on is punishable, because there we already have some limits to freedom of expression today. But we do not believe that the blasphemy clause is what, like, helps to solve the challenges. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160827	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160830	Thank you to my good colleague. I am absolutely convinced that, when the Enhedslisten's initiative, by a large majority in this Parliament, abolished the blasphemy clause, it was not, of course, foreseen that you would experience Rasmus Paludan's freak show. But the fact is that the abolition allowed for this freakshow and this terrorization of our Muslim fellow citizens. The perfect thing about the blasphemy clause is that it does not prevent religious criticism. It doesn't stop drawings, it doesn't stop them. It's the last stop. Four times it has been activated and twice it has been convicted in the last 80 years, I think. Honestly, doesn't SF think that what we've seen with Paludan and the way he terrorises our children and mothers requires us to take action in a way that both prevents this freak show and at the same time can criticise religions? Isn't this the perfect solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160938	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525160939	No, I don't think the blasphemy clause is a solution. In principle, it is the religious feeling that you stir up when you burn a Koran, a Tora or a Bible, or whatever it may be. We believe that paragraphs should protect people and not religions, and that is why we have been advocating the abolition of the blasphemy clause for many years, even before the Enhedslisten put forward its proposal in the past. But I'm very happy to be part of a work with Mr. Sikandar Siddique to find elements that can be included in an action plan against hate crimes and all sorts of other things that we should take care of in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161031	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161032	But now that the rapporteur is calling for action, it is precisely the blasphemy clause that is the solution. That's what the Criminal Court says, that's what the Attorney General says. On the one hand, they say they want to solve it; on the other hand, they say that the solution there is will not be used. I am sorry to say this, but it does send a signal to our Muslim fellow citizens in particular, but generally to all our religious minorities that they have to accept that Rasmus Paludan is running around and harassing them, using vicious words against them and burning off their Koran, and that we will not do anything politically. That is really what you say when you do not want to reinstate the blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161116	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161116-2	So I do not know whether I fully agree that it sends out a signal that we will not do anything. In fact, I think that some of those who stand on the front line to defend our minorities are SF, and we are happy to take part in the debate on how we can increase protection. But precisely the blasphemy paragraph protects the religious feeling, that is, that one cannot tolerate seeing a Koran or a Bible burned off because of one's religion. I understand that people feel that way, but in a democracy it is only part of that that one can express oneself. And then the rest of us must distance ourselves from the idioticness of carrying out such actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161156	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161212	Thank you. We have a major problem in Denmark with minorities being discriminated against and with minorities being subjected to hate crimes. A very small proportion of these cases end up with the police, and an even smaller proportion of these cases end up with a verdict stating that a person has been exposed, for example. racism or homophobia. And this is a problem that we on the Enhedslisten have worked hard to overcome and that we are still spending a lot of time finding solutions to and that we are still very concerned about. I have no doubt that action against hatecrimes is necessary. We need a society where you can walk safely on the street and where you should not be afraid of what comes around the next corner of the street. I know what it feels like, even if I don't belong to one of the protected minorities. It is absolutely not nice when one is completely gratuitous and attacked just to be who he is. A large part of the protection that we are providing with today's legislation is that one should not be discriminated against as a minority on the basis of one's background. I think this is extremely important, because we must protect people from violations based on ethnicity, sexuality, disability, skin colour, etc. But reintroducing the blasphemy clause is not doing anything good for those we want to protect. Generally speaking, it does nothing good to protect the fundamental freedoms that we have in Denmark in terms of being able to express ourselves as we wish. In the Enhedslisten, we have to protect people with legislation; it is not gods that must be protected by our legislation. People need to be protected. That is why we have legislation. In the Enhedslisten we would really like to protect people who are subjected to personal attacks; people who are subjected to hate crimes, which we unfortunately often see happen. But, as I said, we see no reason to protect gods from being offended, whether one believes in a god or does not believe in a god. I am very much in favour of Denmark having to believe exactly what you want, whether you are a Muslim, whether you are a Christian or whether you believe in crystals or in something between heaven and earth. I am very much in favour of our being able to decide for ourselves. But I don't think a god should be protected by the law. A god is a god. And the blasphemy paragraph does not protect individuals; it protects only gods and religions. And to me, that is not a good enough reason to restrict our freedom of expression. Individuals are protected with the racism clause from being violated because of the faith they have. I think that's really good. It protects man. But the Enhedslisten will not help protect gods. We have seen many examples of people who, with a terrible view of human beings, are doing things that most of us in here do not think are right. Personally, I think it is a deeply disrespectful act to stand and burn off a Koran. I see no reason whatsoever why we should do so, and I see no point in wanting to offend large groups of people in our country by burning off a Koran. I think it is disrespectful and I think it is a wrong way of expressing its views. But that is something that we have to accept can occur in our society because we have freedom of expression. Sir. Sikandar Siddique and the Free Greens want this proposal to reduce the gap between different groupings in our society. We agree with that in the Enhedslisten, and we would very much like to be involved in it. However, we cannot support a proposal that is in favour of implementing the blasphemy clause. And I do not think that this is the big surprise, since it was we who proposed to remove it at the time. And I wish, sir. Sikandar Siddique, that reintroducing the blasphemy clause meant that hatred and racism disappeared from our society. Unfortunately, I just don't think it does. I do not think that by reintroducing the blasphemy clause, we are going to get rid of any of the things that we want to do away with. We are not going to have a blasphemy clause in return for much better protection for people. We need better action against hatecrimes in the police and in the prosecution. We need more education in primary school in what it really means when someone is discriminated against. We need a society that has greater cohesion. These are a great many tasks which will not be solved with the proposal that Mr. Sikandar Siddique and Free Greens are coming with us today just as long as it did! But it doesn't. I'm sorry to say that. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161731	Thanks to Rosa Lund. Of course, I am not surprised. The Enhedslisten took the initiative to abolish the blasphemy clause. As a result, Rasmus Paludan has made life miserable for our Muslim fellow citizens, subjected our Muslim fellow citizens to psychological terror, children have been traumatized. I just need a perfectly clear answer here. We know that the racism clause has not been able to go in and stop Rasmus Paludan. We know that what is in the legislation right now cannot stop Rasmus Paludan. It's only the blasphemy clause if we had it today, where we could say: you can't, Rasmus Paludan. So Enhedslisten says here that for the fundamental reasons that were sketched out, Muslim citizens must put up with Rasmus Paludan going around performing his freakshow and burning the Koran and continuing with what he has done for a few years. Is that what Enhedslisten really says to our Muslim fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161839	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161840	I'm sorry, sir. Sikandar Siddique, that I think it is a little naive to think that Rasmus Paludan would hold back with his racist statements and with his unpleasantness if he could not be allowed to burn off the Koran. So I do not agree with the analysis, and to give Enhedslisten the responsibility for Rasmus Paludan's behavior I do not know if you can say that on Parliament's platform, but now I do it as an idiot, I think, frankly, is also across the border. The Enhedslisten will do everything we can to fight Rasmus Paludan in words. We will use the freedom of expression we have to convince as many people as possible that we must, of course, treat our Muslim fellow citizens properly. But frankly, I must say that I think it is naive to think that Rasmus Paludan is packing up his opinions because he can no longer be allowed to burn the Koran. This fight is much bigger and much more important than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161939	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525161940	Then I have to conclude that the rapporteur does not want to respond to this. Facts are: Enhedslisten took the initiative to abolish the blasphemy clause. It made it possible for Paludan to perform this freak show. That is not to say that it was Enhedslisten's intention, but it is facts. In addition, I would just like to say that it is naive of our rapporteur to say that it will not stop Paludan: yes, it says the Criminal Law Council. If we had a blasphemy clause, maybe he had those opinions, but then he couldn't be allowed to perform his freakshow. And that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162017	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162018	Well, I actually think I answered the question. But I understand that sir... Sikandar Siddique does not buy Enhedslisten's analysis. And I have to say, unfortunately, that it would be nice if racism were to be puffed! But we have had a blasphemy clause in Denmark for many years, and racism and racist attitudes have still been absent. Therefore, this is simply not a solution, that is to say to restrict freedom of expression in order to solve this problem. I do not think so. It's way bigger than that. It is a battle that is much longer and bigger than that and that requires a long, cool move. And the long, tough move, sir. Sikandar Siddique, we are ready to enter the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162054	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162114	Thank you. It was a good day when the blasphemy clause was abolished. It is important to safeguard freedom of expression, it is important that we constantly debate, deal with and fight for fundamental rights to be able to criticise religion and ideologies to be preserved. In this respect, we in the New Citizen believe that it was sensible to have it removed, and that is why we cannot support a motion for a resolution to reinstate it. We believe that the fight against totalitarian ideologies must be conducted openly and that it must be done freely. And if there are people in our society who do not want one to be allowed to criticise religion, it is the people who must understand that in Denmark we have and must have the opportunity to criticise things that one disagrees with. And this would be a restriction on it, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162245	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162248	Thank you to the President, thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to say, if the rapporteur is not aware of this, that it is not, of course, because one cannot criticise religion, if one reintroduces the blasphemy clause, it is not because one does not have freedom of expression, if one reintroduces the blasphemy clause, because that would be like saying that in Denmark before 2017 we did not have freedom of expression, and that is not the case, because one can make drawings, one can criticise, one can do everything possible. This is the ultimate stop-block, the ultimate stop-block, to say how primitive the discussion really should be, for example. When you have an extremely insane case where you can say that we simply will not accept that as a society. I just want to remind you that sir... Rasmus Paludan, whom we are talking about here, has, I am well aware, been excluded from New Citizens, because it was believed that his views were too wild, so wild, that one would not have him in one's community. After all, it is the same person who is now spreading terror in society. So what I'm just trying to say is that it's the last stop here. After all, it is not because one cannot criticise religion, because one must be able to do so in an enlightened society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162358	Thank you to the questioner. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162359	Anyone who does not support the politics of New Citizens should not be in New Citizens. It's that simple. But it's about when we can see that there are 42 per cent. immigrants who believe, in whole or in part, in studies, that religious criticism should be banned, and that figure is 48%. for descendants, there is no doubt in my optics that we are fighting against a totalitarian ideology, namely Islam, and a totalitarian ideology works in my optics in that if you give the ideology a little, then it says thank you, and then it goes a step further. I take the blasphemy clause and say that it is the first defence, because if we go that way first, the next general religious criticism will be, and then the next and the next and the next, and I will not start to take those steps, because I will fight against totalitarian ideology. So I do not think there is any basis whatsoever for supporting a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162459	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162501	But the rapporteur must understand that in the fight against the so-called totalitarian ideology, we will be supporting another totalitarian fanatic. It doesn't add up. It doesn't add up. And then I would just like to say once more in all silence that you have to have a lot of religious criticism, because the blasphemy paragraph has never prevented that. So it is simply a myth to say that it prevents religious criticism. That is where this is supposed to be the ultimate, ultimate stop point in completely insane situations, so that we do not have a totally primitive debate or democratic conversation in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162543	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162543-2	The rapporteur should therefore bear in mind that he makes a distinction between fighting for the right of people to say something and say something and then agree with it. Freedom of expression is, of course, about fighting for the right of people to say the things they disagree with. That does not mean that, because you are fighting for their right to say it, you agree with what they say. I think it is funny, because when the rapporteur often refers to these different organisations, there are a large number of organisations which recommend abolishing it: Amnesty International, the Council of Europe, the United Nations Human Rights Council, a large number of think tanks, Justitia, all those that the rapporteur often likes to mention, actually think it is good that this blasphemy paragraph was removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162620	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525162633	Thank you. I think it is quite incredible that we here, 15 years after the Mohammed drawings started a major discussion in Denmark, still away from Mr. Sikandar Siddique and Mr. Jens Rohde's side is on the level of questioning whether people should be allowed to do something that is not good tone. Sir. For example, Jens Rohde says that if you do not want to ban blasphemous statements, it is like you think it is a good idea for neighbours to yell at each other. No, you don't think so, but if a neighbor needs to yell at his neighbor, we shouldn't have a ban on it. There is surely a huge, huge difference between what you think should be legal in a society and what you think is useful in a society. There are plenty of views that I don't think are useful to spread in this society. I don't think it's useful to spread ideas about astrology in this society, I don't think it's useful to spread ideas about socialism in this society, and I don't think Free Greens are a useful party, but all of this should be allowed to exist, and you should be allowed to speak about it, and there should be no ban on it. So when people say we have to have a ban on this, because do you really think it's a good idea for people to do it? Then we reply over and over again: no, we do not think it is a good idea for people to do so, but we certainly do not want to ban it. And I think it's amazing that in fifteen years for the Mohammed crisis we still have these discussions where supporters of bans on utterances claim that it's about good taste and good tone. It doesn't. Religious beliefs must be allowed to be contradicted and must also be allowed to be blasphemed, just as all other beliefs must. There should be no specific set of rules for religious beliefs which do not apply to other beliefs, both because it does not in itself make sense, but also because people then risk simply wrapping up their beliefs as religion, because they can thus be protected in a way that other beliefs cannot. The subject of this debate is, of course, very often Islam, and there we see it in a very concrete example, namely that we have called something a religion, which is also a religion, but which is also very much a political belief in how society should be organized. Should this political conviction be given special protection because it also has a religious character which other political beliefs do not have, and so should not other beliefs have the same protection? Not at all! All beliefs must be subject to the same set of rules, which is that one must put up with being contradicted and also sometimes blasphemed, although it may not be conducive to anything at all to blaspheming, but because it is a right. Let me say specifically about Rasmus Paludan's demonstrations in residential areas where there are many Muslims. I think it is worth considering whether our right to demonstrate in Denmark really is to stand up where people live and shout at people and pig people. One thing, then, is that you are allowed to demonstrate at the Town Hall Square or the Palace Square or some other place where there are many people passing by, but I myself would feel offended if, where I lived, there stood up a lunatic again and again and claimed that there was all sorts of things wrong with me. I'm not sure that's how it should be in Denmark. But it is not because it is an anti-religious message that Rasmus Paludan is firing that it is particularly problematic, it is because he does it out where people live. It may well be and now I'm looking down at the Minister for Justice... that the Minister for Justice should consider whether the right of demonstration really includes a right to appear again and again where people live and scold at them. Similarly, for the people who stand up in the Palace Square here, 15 people with a very large speaker and just play loud music to make noise, it is really what we see as the right to demonstrations that you can just stand up somewhere and bother the people who work close by and the people who come by without having a real message with it, just the desire that people should notice you and be bothered by you. Let us then take that discussion, but let us not protect religious beliefs more than all other beliefs. We shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163136	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163141	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen, to invite us to discuss... [Sound Falls]. After all, it is absolutely true that we in the Free Greens want to stop Rasmus Paludan's freak show and his psychic terrorisation of our Muslim minorities, and so, it is not just in the Free Greens. That's what my point is. In France, he's on a list of threats to national security. He has an entry ban in Sweden, in Belgium and in many other countries, in other words countries with which we are normally associated and with which we are comparing ourselves. So this isn't a unique discussion. It's just a unique position we have in the Danish Parliament about it. But I just want to say thank you for inviting me to see if there is anything else we can do if it is not a re-establishment of the blasphemy paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163248	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163249	I think that Mr. Sikandar Siddique walks remarkably around the warm porridge compared to Rasmus Paludan. We can all agree that he has views that are very far-fetched and reprehensible. We can also agree that the way he acts is not always equally appropriate and sometimes also very offensive to other people. But the essence of the case of Rasmus Paludan is that the reason why he can be perceived as a threat to someone's safety is that there are some other people, such as Mr Paludan. votes for Mr. Sikandar Siddique's party, that's at least Mr. Siddique's party. Sikandar Siddique's hopes and threats of violence and fire and fire and destruction against Rasmus Paludan. After all, it is not Rasmus Paludan himself who represents the safety risk. After all, it is the people who want to silence Rasmus Paludan, who represent the safety risk, and some of them want Mr Paludan. Sikandar Siddique to get a vote from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163350	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163351	Now I think it is the rapporteur who is dancing around the hot porridge. Well, it's not the people on the list. This is Rasmus Paludan. And then it may be that the rapporteur thinks it is because of all sorts of others, but it is Rasmus Paludan who is on the list. Anti-Semitism is increasing and Islamophobia is increasing. We see it over and over and over again and all the time. We introduced these laws so that we could protect against the worst cases, and that is what this is all about. It's a myth when you say that a blasphemy paragrapher will go in to protect so you can't make religious criticism. It is simply a myth. It shows 80 years with the blasphemy paragraph. That's why I just hope we can convince LA to make sure we can stop this freak show.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163436	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163437	- Sir, you can. Sikandar Siddique did not persuade LA to do so, because we do not want religious beliefs to enjoy protection in legislation against criticism and blasphemy that other beliefs do not enjoy. So that's never gonna happen. And it is the case that the uncertainty associated with Rasmus Paludan personally comes from those people who want to silence him, and that is also the case if I have understood Mr Paludan otherwise. Sikandar Siddique right that it is among the people that the Free Greens would like to collect a lot of votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163511	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525163526	From Christian V's time the penal code actually had a blasphemy clause: Whoever publicly ridicules or reproaches something in this country legally existing religions' beliefs or worship is punished. Under Christian V it was even the death penalty. The paragraph that we have had in our Penal Code since 1866, because of Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party and others' areligiousness, historianlessness and lack of understanding that we are part of a cosmopolitan reality, where religion is a sensitive thing, was abolished in 2017, even though terrorist experts had warned against the consequences. Since 1939 there has been a paragraph on racism, and it has been gradually amended, and paradoxically it has been used to punish religious critics, including critics of Islam. But then with Rasmus Paludan a lawyer and politician appeared who knows the art of going to the border, but well knows where you don't go over it. Where others express themselves in writing and with general statements, he uses the freedom of expression for some provocative but legitimate symbolic acts. It is a bit funny that today we see bourgeois parties uniting with a left in a society where education and not education are the new faith and where new technology is religion, while we see religion as something very private that is going away. In this crazy arrogance, the technological religion in which we do things, just because we can, overlooks its co-existence with an opposing tendency that active religious practice is actually on the way forward again. Paludan has given our system a reality check that it has not passed. We are now faced with some totally absurd conditions, namely that openly provoked acts and harmful acts must be protected by the police, and many reactions also among Christians, it is not only among Muslims that have been demanding the re-establishment of the blasphemy clause or just something similar, and then the majority today face Mr. Sikandar Siddique and say that it cannot be done because of freedom of expression, while at the same time the same politicians, in order to avoid more trouble wrapped up throughout the election campaign, urged the police to ban Paludan's demonstrations for reasons of public order. The net result of the Paludan company has been to demonstrate that Islam actually has power in certain Danish areas. Well, that's the real knee fall, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen. It is a mess that a delicate political balance in this way is left to the police, and offensive to common sense, that our resources should be used in this way. But that is what has happened now, when bourgeois Denmark has chosen to embrace an areligious left wing, where everything is equally valid and thus also does not matter. The bourgeois Denmark ignores the fact that religion has a different character than any other expression, and that is because one has found an enemy, namely Islam, and then, as usual, one forgets the whole. From the point of view of the authors of the constitution, freedom of expression was meant to be a protection against despotic rulers, but driven out into its ultimate consequence it becomes a protection for provocations, which in the time of social media will always be enough. This could be easily and conveniently solved by reintroducing the blasphemy clause and by actually applying it. So terrorist experts and social democrats were right when they warned against voting for the lifting of the blasphemy clause. Now the Social Democrats say that they will not vote for it, although they actually mean it that way I have to understand the speakers because they stand alone with the view. I just have to remind you of Henrik Ibsen's play, which is called "A Folk Enemy." This folk enemy was Dr. Thomas Stockmann, who decided forever to fight for what he believed in and decided to tell the truth forever. He says precisely in the fifth act, as the very last, that he who stands alone is the strongest in the world. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are several brief comments. First, it's for mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164033	I just have an infinite need to say thank you to my good colleague Jens Rohde and to the Christian Democrats to nuance the debate and to get some more nuances into this often and often so black-and-white for or counter-debate, which is the status quo in here. I would just like to say that, if that is the style that the Christian Democrats are pursuing, then we welcome it in the Free Greens. So I just want to sign and say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164111	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164114	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164116	I can easily relate to the play of stand alone and dare stand alone, and I also agree with the rapporteur that it has been a wakeup call, that it is a wakeup call and that it should be a wakeup call that we are fighting a totalitarian ideology, namely Islam, in Denmark. And it is, of course, born of the fact that the totalitarian ideology of Islam is a hybrid between ideology and religion. Then you can choose not to deal with it, or you can choose to acknowledge it. And I agree that many years of failed immigration policy have made that the problem we are facing but not addressing it will also be a mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164209	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164210	Then the question is how to address it, and if what you do is counterproductive, you have to throw your ideology aside a little and try to assess whether it actually has the intended effect. Otherwise, if you stare blindly at this fight against the other, you end up being everything you fight, and that is what we must be careful about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164240	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164241	I agree with the rapporteur that we should be very careful about this, but we have seen horrible examples of the fact that if you just turn the other cheek against a totalitarian ideology and continue too far down that path, it will end in disaster. So the sooner you pick up the freedom fight, the easier the fight gets before it goes all wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164308	I think, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen and most of my colleagues in here will know that it is generally very far off to me to turn the other cheek. That is not what I am arguing for. I argue that we are considering the consequences of the actions we are doing and that we are looking at it in a historical context and are not giving up all our own values and all our own history in the fight against something else, because then all they and all that we are fighting against have finally won.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164350	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164351	I'm just sitting here looking at old statements made by Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, for example. when he said this: "Arla is ready to sell her grandmother to sell her goods in dictatorship countries. I cannot at all understand why our principles can be taken so lightly. My freedoms are not for sale for two litres of milk. - Sir... Jens Rohde guess, on what occasion did he say those words?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164420-2	Yes, I can do that, and I stand by it completely, and that is not what the blasphemy paragraph is about. It's there, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen goes wrong. He uses the Muhammad crisis to argue why the blasphemy clause should not exist. But these two things have nothing to do with each other. That's exactly what we saw. They have nothing to do with each other. So there's a perfectly logical flaw in it, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, in a desperate attempt to correct his speech and in relation to the criticism I made of his speech, stands and says down here from his place. It's a desperate attempt. There's a logical flaw. There is no connection with the Muhammad crisis. And I am proud of the role I played during the Mohammed crisis, while everyone else, by the way, was to say, nicely hiding away and, by the way, very strongly criticized the Prime Minister, whom we were a few who stood up and defended.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164525	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164526	Surely it cannot be said that the Muhammed crisis has nothing to do with blasphemy. At least it did. Well, it was about some drawings that, according to the critics, were perceived as blasphemous. Some thought they should not have been made, and others attacked Danish embassies, etc. and resorted to such serious things because they were so offended by their religious feelings. You can't say it has nothing to do with blasphemy. Then I understand that the blasphemy provision has been completely hollowed out and today hardly covers anything other than the possible burning of the Koran. But to say that blasphemy and Mohammed drawings have nothing to do with each other is a little far-fetched.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164609	That, however, was an interesting statement, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. I don't know if sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is a fan of blasphemy, for if he links blasphemy with the religious criticism that was practiced as a result of an author not being able to illustrate his book, that is, if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is linking blasphemy to it and aggressing for it, I must take it as an expression that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen thinks blasphemy is a good idea. And then we're actually back to Mr. Knox. Peter Poulsen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164647	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers. It's sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525164704	For Free Greens, reintroducing the blasphemy clause is not about us not having religious criticism or satire in Denmark. We must, and we have a good tradition for that. Instead, it's all about stopping hate preachers. And frankly, is it really a criticism to burn the Bible, the Torah, or the Koran in public space? Not in my world. In an ideal world, of course, we did not need a blasphemy clause or a racism clause or a law on hate crimes. In the ideal world, we would not beat each other in the head with prejudice, but would talk to each other from a respectful place. But we are not living in an ideal world. P.t. We live in Denmark, where the reproach of religious minorities and religion has probably not been greater since World War II. The insult became easier to perform when a unanimous Parliament on Enhedslisten's initiative, with the exception of the Social Democratic Party in 2017, chose to abolish the blasphemy clause, which in approx. 80 years before that, it had ensured that the most serious cases of religious reproach could be prosecuted. Critics of the proposal mean that religious criticism is necessary. I fully agree with that. But reproach is not criticism, and it is not, of course, because the religious criticism did not exist until 2017 when the blasphemy clause was abolished on the contrary. On the other hand, the abolition of the blasphemy clause, which most of us discovered, has since allowed Stram Course, Rasmus Paludan and other hate preachers to burn off the Koran in public places quite legally, including in schools in front of children and young people who are subjected to psychological terror • children who have had a trauma, children who come home and ask their parents if it is right that they should be thrown out of Denmark. That is why I ask again: is it really criticism? Can we not, in a prosperous country like Denmark, expect the democratic debate to be less primitive? But it doesn't stop here. In fact, the abolition of the blasphemy clause has contributed to the Danish state's obligation to protect the hateful mediestunts of Rasmus Paludan and other hate preachers to such an extent that the police's bill in one year has exceeded 100 million. kr. While Paludan is protected as an American president, the reality is different for the citizens affected by his tour of Koran burning. Because the racism clause can't protect them. Several lawyers believe that a blasphemy clause could. In this way, we can say that with the blasphemy clause we give these citizens an opportunity to protect themselves and live their lives in peace and quiet. I would just like to emphasise that it is, of course, the task of the police to ensure that our rights are protected. However, it should not be a right to abuse freedom of expression to carry out psychic terror against a religious minority who is merely caring for school, work or other everyday things. Therefore, in this context, I would like to ask the rapporteurs of the other parties, who are in favour of the continued abolition of the blasphemy clause, what exactly do you intend to do for our religious fellow citizens in these situations? What do you think they should do when you do not believe that the blasphemy clause should guard the most hateful acts against their faith? How are they supposed to protect their children? Here I speak particularly to Enhedslisten, Radical Left and SF. For us in the Free Greens, it is quite obvious that the blasphemy clause can be a protection against lunatics such as Rasmus Paludan, who spread hatred and wounds even more dissension in our society... a society that has become more and more divided over the last 20 years, on the one hand between people who from all sides do not like immigration to outright hate Muslims, and then on the other hand we humanists who want a Denmark for all. Just as the racism clause has not meant that there is no racism in Denmark, nor will the blasphemy clause mean that the hatred of religions disappears. But it will mean that there is a bottom, a limit to what we as a society think is acceptable • exactly as we do with other things. Free Greens suggest that the blasphemy clause be reinstated so that it becomes a criminal offence to desecrate sacred writings such as the Torah, the Bible and the Koran. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165214	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165217	Thank you. Free Greens talk about the ideal world, and in the ideal world we would not need the blasphemy clause. But in the ideal world we did not have a totalitarian ideology like Islam in Denmark either. In the ideal world, we didn't need to spend 100 million either. kr. to protect a person because a lot of people will hurt the person because they disagree with what person does or says. But we do not live in the ideal world, and that is why we need to take care of freedom of expression. We need to combat totalitarian ideologies and the preservation of the fact that there is no blasphemy clause is the first step in fighting against the totalitarian forces that Islam is. So I understand that Free Greens see this as the first important step, because then the next step will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165324	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165326	Free Greens think we should have religious criticism. It is simply a prerequisite for an enlightened society. But I think it is a strawman, my dear colleague, who talks about the fact that this proposal will lead to the disappearance of freedom of expression. For then it means that New Citizens believe that we in Denmark did not have freedom of expression until 2017. That is simply not true. The Criminal Code Council goes in and says clearly in their main conclusion that a blasphemy clause will not prevent religious criticism. So it's a myth. It is simply wrong, factually wrong, to set it up as freedom of expression against blasphemy. It's not like that. With a blasphemy clause we have had plenty of religious criticism for the last 80 years in Denmark. This is the last stop in completely crazy situations where you can say that here we have a guard. That is what we are trying to introduce.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165431	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165431-2	The rapporteur must listen to what I am saying. I said that we must protect and safeguard freedom of expression, not that it will be completely abolished. Secondly, I think it is incredible that the cost of the 100 million should not be taken into account. kr., which Danish taxpayers must promise, is not because of Rasmus Paludan's comments, but because of the reaction to them. That's what costs. And when the rapporteur talks about children being terrorised, why do not some parents take responsibility and ensure that their children do not listen to this, but walk away? What kind of responsibility is that? It is always easy to blame others instead of looking at themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165506	Thank you. I'll remind you, no direct charges, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165508	Yes, and for the rapporteur for New Citizens, it is always about blaming Muslims. Now it's all of a sudden the kids don't have to go to school. Do you want me to understand it that way? When Rasmus Paludan shows up in Tingbjerg in front of a school and the kids get off school and walk by and hear him yell the worst revilings at their families and ask them to go home, what are the children supposed to do? Or are those parents going to stand down in front of the school every day and take the children home? Instead of New Citizens protecting Rasmus Paludan, we should protect the children who are subjected to psychological terror.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165542	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165544	Thank you. I simply disagree fundamentally with the fact that the democratic debate has become more primitive after the blasphemy clause has been abolished. In fact, I think it is the other way around, and I think, unfortunately, that the Free Greens are making the debate on racism and hate speech extremely primitive by saying that it can all be resolved by reintroducing the blasphemy clause. One of the things I am most proud of in my party, the Enhedslisten, is that we are consistently standing on the fact that rights are something that applies to all of us, including those we do not like. I do not believe that we can say that rights apply to some, but not to some others. Then you remove the whole essence of rights. Then I just need to hear from the Greens whether the Greens will remove the rights of those they do not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165643	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165644	I would say that now the Enhedslisten is really revealing itself. Throughout the debate, the rapporteur has not tried to deal with what is being asked. So, you should not make those stunts and then try to listen: I have said again and again throughout the debate that, of course, this does not solve all the problems of racism. This solves a specific problem in relation to a freak show that causes our Muslim fellow citizens to be subjected to mental terror, but the Enhedslisten will not respond to that, Enhedslisten will not respond to that. I have tried to ask several times, soberly and properly, what it means that Enhedslisten will not stand for a restoration, and then Enhedslisten answers: Well this does not solve the racism problem, hate crimes. No, of course it does not, and that is why the Free Greens keep putting hate crimes and racism and anti-racism on the agenda. So I'd like to get rid of it, Mrs. Rosa Lund, that you make that strawman. This is for the Free Greens only about us having a blasphemy clause reinstated, so we have an outermost block. We never said it would solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165750	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165751	But I would also like to ask the strawman not to answer the questions, because now I was here, standing up on the platform, so was the rest of the Chamber, and we can go in to see the rocks and see that I am answering Mr. Sikandar Siddique's question. Then it may be that you don't like the answers, but it's something else. I am interested in finding out why people were so concerned about protecting gods rather than protecting people, but I am also a socialist, which is why I believe that there should be a separation between church and state. I believe, on the other hand, that we have a responsibility to call on Muslim citizens who are currently experiencing extreme hatred. But why is Free Greens more interested in protecting gods than in protecting people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165833	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165834	I have to say that the rapporteur must have lost the ground link to Nørrebro, otherwise the rapporteur would not have asked this question. Go for a walk on Nørrebro and ask the citizens who are out there whether they feel that it is the gods we protect here or that it is them and their families that we protect here. I would say: I am speechless and disappointed by the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left and the supporting parties, who, after all, won a fantastic victory by going out talking about minority rights, but who are not standing up for Muslim minorities today in this Chamber. This isn't about gods. This is about ordinary people who are subjected to psychological terror out there, and the rapporteur knows that. But the rapporteur does not want to introduce a blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165918	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525165920	But it's the result of religion, and that's the way it is. Well, that gives the rootlessness that's the way it is. In general, the burning of books and such things is very blasphemous to me. What I would just like to ask the rapporteur is whether he can confirm that the blasphemy clause was never used by the authorities in connection with the Mohammed drawings, analogous to some of the things that have been said here in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170004	Well, I can completely confirm it, and now I know that Mr. Jens Rohde had a very leading role throughout the crisis and therefore knows the details. I can fully confirm that, in 2006, the Attorney General came to the conclusion that it was not possible to prevent the Muhammed drawings on the basis of the racism clause or on the basis of the blasphemy clause. Moreover, as I have repeated several times, the Criminal Code Council has come to the conclusion that even if one had a blasphemy clause, one could still have religious criticism, which is absolutely crucial in an enlightened society. And that is also why I thanked the rapporteur earlier for nuanced the debate, because the hand on the heart is not about restricting freedom of expression; it is not about not being able to make religious criticism; we have a proud tradition of doing so in Denmark. This is the ultimate stop-block where we simply see a gap in legislation where there are some crazy hate preachers that make life miserable for everyone, and there you have to have an opportunity to go in and put an end to it. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170107	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170112	Thank you. Well, now it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, who has repeatedly spoken about Mr. Rasmus Paludan's freak show and traumatized children etc. and 100 million kr. To the police. I agree that it has been a pretty absurd sight, but how many of these 100 million. kr. Would it be possible to save money if we had a blasphemy clause? Does the rapporteur have an idea of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170144	I do not think the questioner can expect me to answer that. What I can answer is that then Rasmus Paludan could not be protected as an American president and for a whole month stand on Nørrebro and say: Now I will bother my Muslim fellow citizens. Then you could put in and say, "It's illegal, you can't do that." And when he couldn't get permission to carry it out, you could prevent him from doing it, and everything else would save us some money, and that would all just protect our Muslim minorities. But how much that concrete in crowns and ears would save society, I can't answer exactly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170223	I can answer that: 0 kr. There would be no difference at all, because Rasmus Paludan began his demonstrations when we had a blasphemy clause. At first he did not burn Korans, so we removed the blasphemy clause, and then he burned Korans, but neither did it. So what the Free Greens are trying to tell people is simply not correct, so that if we had just had a blasphemy clause, there would not be traumatized children on Nørrebro, and then Mr. Rasmus Paludan could be prevented from demonstrating. He can't. The only thing that might come up was that you could arrest him afterwards, if he had chosen to burn some Korans anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170305	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170306	Well, the Attorney General, the Criminal Court, all sorts of experts have been out to say during the course, that if we had a blasphemy clause, you could stop Rasmus Paludan from saying that. I can read the statement. It is quite clear that it was said that the racism clause cannot be used. It simply cannot be used. It is only the blasphemy paragraph that can stop Koran burns. It is, of course, a legal assessment which you can read, if you want to get a little bit involved in the cases, then you can google it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170347	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170351	Well, Koran burning or portrait of the Prophet. The Blasphemy clause could not stop Rasmus Paludan from standing up and drawing all sorts of drawings and making them the subject of his demonstration. So we also have to be honest with each other here. If the paragraph were to be reinstated, we would still be able to have a Rasmus Paludan who would be able to make all sorts of shameful demonstrations and try to create an audience on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170426	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170427	People can come up with all sorts of things. The Socialists voted against the abolition of the blasphemy clause, but, like the Enhedslisten and the SF, had not seen the coming, as I also said earlier in the debate, that Rasmus Paludan would then exploit that gap. Nevertheless, legislation must reflect society and the problems we face. And now we have seen that we have a huge problem. Yes, even the police and Claus Oxfeldt have been out saying that it is simply not okay. Lawyers have been out saying it, politicians have been out saying it. Now we have a specific problem and that is what we are trying to solve here. If the future then shows that other things happen, then we have to get back together and figure out how to solve it. My point is that here we have a specific problem, and the truth is that none of us can solve it. The police cannot take action against what politicians cannot take action against it. We can't do anything because we're missing a legal home because we're missing the blasphemy clause. And that is why we in the Green Group believe that we should now take action so that we can put an end to this psychic terror.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170538	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170539	But one could say exactly the same thing about the drawings, which are very much now, both in the Danish debate in relation to our teachers and in other countries in Europe, and which, if one listens to the Muslim community, is clearly perceived as a very, very great provocation. There is no legislation that prevents anyone from making those drawings. Does the Green Group therefore believe that this is a similar problem which should in fact be banned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170609	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170611	I would say that there is a difference between the preacher of hatred Rasmus Paludan and that debate. So there is a significant difference. Under no circumstances will I compare this, nor do I hear the rapporteur doing the teachers and the discussion that is going on there with Rasmus Paludan. So, these are two very, very different things, and I do not think they can be compared, I would say to Mr Beazley. Jeppe Bruus. This is about the fact that we have a hate preacher who has found a gap in the law that allows him to expose our Muslim fellow citizens to mental terror and the Free Greens will not accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170649	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170653	I'm actually listening to try to understand what it is, sir. Sikandar Siddique would like to. He says he wants to ban the burning of the Koran and the Bible, the Torah and so on, but he has not proposed it. It states that the blasphemy clause must be reinstated; it does not say that the burning of sacred writings should be banned. In other words, it must be a much wider spectrum, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique actually wants to criminalise than specifically what he mentions in his speeches. Mr. Sikandar Siddique that it must be forbidden in Denmark to draw the Prophet Muhammad?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170732	That was two questions. I will try to answer them perfectly correctly and simply. Free Greens have put forward this proposal for a single purpose, namely that one should be able to stop the preachers of hatred. And we understand from the political debate that if we had a blasphemy clause, we could stop the Koran burns. That is why Free Greens have said that we are taking the old blasphemy clause and introducing it again, so that lawyers and police can then intervene in order to stop the hate preachers. In addition, the Free Greens say over and over again: there must be room for religious criticism; there must be room for satire, all sorts of satire in an enlightened society. There has to be. It is the foundation of an enlightened society. We are not opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170834	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170836	So, sir. Sikandar Siddique does not believe that it should be illegal to draw the Prophet Muhammad, whether satire or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170846	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170848	The first time the Muhammed drawings saw the light of day, I completely distanced myself from them. I do not think that, because one is right, I should distance myself from them when I distance myself from them today. But in an enlightened society, there must be room for religious criticism, and there must be room for satire, but I disapprove of the drawings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170915	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525170943	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171004	Thank you for the floor. It is, in fact, an interesting motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, and I share the position of the Left far along the way, both on the specific issue from which the proposal arises, but also on the principle of the expulsion of sentenced people who have committed crimes with serious consequences for Danish society, not per person. definition must be released after half-time. And foreigners who have committed serious crimes against the Danish state, or who plan to do so, should not expect to be released after half-time. I just think if we are going to go through with the debate, and of course we are going to have to do that, then I will try to say a little bit about the rules we have today. The expulsion judge does not today have an unconditional right to parole. Convicted persons may today be paroled once two thirds of the sentence period, but at least two months, has been completed. If special circumstances speak for it, parole may take place when the sentenced person has endured half of his sentence. Exiled aliens may be released after half-time if the release is not deemed to be inadvisable and if expulsion can be carried out immediately after release. The practice of bringing forward the time of possible parole for expulsion sentenced persons was introduced in 2012. The reason for this was to limit the time spent in prison by a convicted foreigner in order to ease the pressure on the judiciary; a criminal service which, moreover, today is experiencing a great and increasing pressure on capacity, which is why, unfortunately, the problem is no less than it was at the time. So the premise is that, if it is not considered inadvisable, the sentenced person will be released after half the time and be able to leave the country immediately. It is just important to stress that there is a requirement that parole is not inadvisable, and when it is important to emphasise this, it is because the requirement implies that the criminal services should make a concrete assessment of the risk of relapse to what is called non-batatical crime, and that assessment also includes the nature and gravity of the crime committed. So it is not the case that the person concerned will be able to look forward to being paroled after half the time. An assessment must also be made that it is not inadvisable. The same inadvisability assessment is being made of expelled foreigners as is being carried out by everyone else. So there is no easier access to parole for deportees and certainly not for those who have committed crime with serious consequences for Danish society. In addition, as I said, expulsion must be possible immediately after its release. In order to support my point, it can be stated that out of the 507 exiles sentenced to expulsion, who fulfilled the time-limits for being released after half-time, only 139 were released after half-time by 2020, that is, last year. So it is by no means everyone who is released after half-time. An arrangement such as the one proposed by the Left aims to limit the possibility of parole of persons convicted of crimes with serious consequences for society. As I have said, this moment is already being taken into account in the decision on parole in connection with the above-mentioned non-advisability assessment. The consequences of the crime on society are then decided at a few other times. First of all, when it comes to measuring the penalty, which is so much about how much should be punished in this situation, and the judge also takes into account the consequences of crime on society; and secondly, • and, most importantly, that when we in this Chamber determine the penalty and indicate the normal punishment in the remarks, one of the things we emphasize is the gravity of the crime, that is, in reality, how reprehensible we as a society think it is. So the rules already state today that both in the context of criminal proceedings and in the decision on parole, the crime committed is taken into account. And there is no right to parole. In view of this, the Government cannot support the motion for a resolution before us. Having said that, the government would very much like to look at how we can limit the access of exiles to early parole by making further demands. This is among other things. the background to the draft law on incentives, which we expect to put forward in a later session. We have had it put forward in this House, because of the political constellation of the Things we are working on that matter. We propose next year, in the autumn, that exiled foreigners should lose their right to parole altogether if they do not agree to serving in their country of origin. With this proposal, we expect that more exiles will consent to serving in the country of origin so that they do not fill up in the Danish prisons. Of course, I hope that the parties of the Folketing share that ambition with the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171605	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171608	Thank you, Minister. I have to say that I am a little surprised, because it is not the case that we are making these motions for resolutions for fun. Among other things, there were: a mention in the Stock Exchange of how sure one could be of being paroled in these situations, and it was made clear that the seriousness of the crime was not taken into account. To be quite sure you can't always take what is in the paper, because good goods I ask question 168 to the Ministry of Justice and get an answer that I don't think is clear either. Then I ask once again in question 331 whether it is now possible to be sure that the seriousness of the crime is part of the assessment of the parole. All I have to say is that everyone, including two professors, is saying that it is not really part of this. Let me hurry to say that it would be perfectly satisfactory for me if the Minister for Justice from the Chair said that the seriousness of the crime, as we write in the motion for a resolution, would be included in the assessment of the possibility of parole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171717	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171719	As it is, if I can rely on the information I have been given, and I think that I can do so, we must start from the requirement that parole is not inadvisable and, to quote my speech, the requirement that criminal services should make a concrete assessment of the risk of relapse to what is referred to as non-batatical crime, and also include in that assessment the nature and gravity of the crime committed. As I understand it, it is simply one of the elements of the assessment made by the criminal services in the assessment of parole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171811	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171812	In other words, there is nothing to prevent the Minister from clarifying this here in writing on a third question which simply clarifies whether the heading of our proposal is adequate for current practice, namely that in the case of crimes with serious consequences for Danish society it is difficult to be paroled? We can get that in writing from the Minister, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171844	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. I'm gonna have to ask the minister to blow off. The next speaker is Mr. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525171910	Well, I guess that goat was shaved. A question was asked and an answer was given. In this way, of course, we can make this debate quite brief. We have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal. That goes without saying. I don't think there's a lot of people who have sympathy for these types. That is why it is sympathetic that we pick the feathers of these people, to say what it is. That was among other things. We also tried with the bill to put even more pressure on those sentenced to expulsion to actually honour the demand we make that they go home and that, if they do not, they lose some rights in their service. It is also the case, and everyone knows that there is enormous pressure on our criminal services, and we can do penalties, extensions and everything else, but it will fill up. Therefore, we also need to find out how to deal with the increased challenge of capacity. This is one of the criticisms we have about this resolution. However, we have great sympathy for the proposal. We cannot support it as it stands here, among other things. because we also need to address the capacity challenge. Then we hope that we can get back to it. It is, of course, the Minister of Justice who decides this, but I think that this could be one of the themes we will be discussing in the autumn in the context of the negotiations on criminal justice and in the context of the legislative proposal that we, as a government, have put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172036	Thank you to the rapporteur. This did not give rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172051	Thank you, President. In my party, the Danish People's Party, we are always positive to see whether the rules we have for criminals have been set up in the right way. It is both in relation to the sense of justice and to the preventive function that a punishment must always have. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Left points out a number of shortcomings in the legislation, or perhaps some things could be said which could at least be clearer. We are certainly positive about that. Basically, we believe that the law, and in particular criminal law, must of course be designed in such a way that it takes account of society and the victims before the perpetrator. That is why we also fully agree with the comments on the proposal on how to give greater weight to Danish society. We are very much in favour of the committee's work on this proposal and, from the point of view of the matter, we are also planning to support it in the final vote. In this respect, I should like to say, as a service briefing from the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately cannot be here this evening, that they are looking at it in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172223	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur, for the kind welcome of the Conservatives. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172244	I shall start by saying this while I remember it, namely that I too should welcome the Radical Left, and I should also do so in the previous motion for a resolution, but I was not able to do so. This has been corrected. The Left is proposing that we tighten up on parole, and I disagree with that. In fact, it is already quite difficult to obtain a parole, and we have seen a huge fall over recent years. In fact, after two thirds of the sentence period, the refusal rate on parole has risen from 26%. in 2015 to 41%. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it is a huge drop in the number of paroles that is being given. I think that is actually a bit of a problem, because parole is simply an excellent tool for holding onto the parole and ensuring that both demands are made and that progress is continued in the difficult transition between prison and freedom. Often there are conditions in which it may be that you have to remain in the treatment of abuse, or that you should stay away from certain areas, or whatever it may be and commit new crime, the consequence is quick and noticeable, because then you end up behind bars again. That is why there is really a lot of control and motivation in using parole, because what happens when people have served full time is that we can make exactly zero demands, and that is not always wise. One of the major grounds for refusal in connection with parole is, moreover, the lack of housing, and I have found that, unfortunately, criminal services must not help inmates financially to be set up in housing associations, and that is stupid. That is why, when the time comes, we will not be able to release parole, and I think we should change that when we have to negotiate a new agreement for the criminal services. There is no point in people who we would actually have paroled sanding in criminal justice on the basis of such a small problem. Then I will turn to the question of those sentenced to expulsion, and the Minister for Justice has just explained his new ideas on what was launched earlier this year. I think we have a great interest in the fact that they are serving in their own countries, and the Minister has just announced that the inmates must serve full time if they do not agree to transfer to their country of origin. That is to say, there is actually a tightening up here, which in itself can make this proposal a little superfluous. So we do not support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172530	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172545	Parole is a very good opportunity for most of the inmates in Danish prisons to be allowed to resocialise themselves into society. In order to qualify for parole, you have to behave properly while you are in prison, you have to go through a process of retirement, where you are first retired and then can enter your own home. And the whole process is being followed by the Department of Criminal Services. At the same time, it is also a very solid motivation not to commit new crimes while you are on parole, because then you just end up behind bars again, and I really don't think most people want to. The rehabilitation efforts are lagging behind in the Danish prisons, and hopefully that is something that we will be able to rectify with the forthcoming negotiations on the economy of criminal justice. Because this is a very important area to address, we think in the Enhedslisten. As I read this proposal, it is about hitting convicted foreigners convicted of financial crime. But at the same time we fear that it will take some others down, as it will also include Danish inmates. I can see that it is unfortunate if a foreigner is to serve half a sentence in Denmark, because at the same time he is being sentenced to expulsion. These are serious crimes which have a major negative impact on our society. I am, of course, referring to the matter which Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen himself referred to and described in the daily Børsen. But it is also an extremely rare crime, with circumstances that are quite unique. And I do not really like the fact that we have to legislate for a fifty or a hundred-year event which alone makes a difference as to whether they are going to be in prison for three or four years. For almost everyone who receives a expulsion sentence, this is in itself a great punishment. You may get away with less time in prison, yes, but, on the other hand, you can't live and live in Denmark anymore. So that's a pretty severe punishment. And I'm not saying we have to change whether we can get a punishment like that. I just think that the authors of the motion for a resolution forget that, for the most part, whether or not they commit crimes with so-called serious consequences for Denmark is a rather serious punishment, i.e. an expulsion sentence. That is why the appropriate sanction has been taken into account when judging the courts. When we come to the part about crimes with serious consequences for Danish society, I simply need to clarify where the dividing line is. But it may come out during the debate or during the work of the committee. After all, every crime has negative consequences for society, but is this to be understood as meaning that it is only by financial crime against the state that this consequence has to be achieved? Are they violent assaults, too? Is it stealing, i.e. financial crime against companies and individuals? Or is it just to the state? We think this is a little unclear and we look forward to getting this clarified in any committee work. For the time being, at least we find it difficult to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172907	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is: I shall see who we have in this Chamber. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525172939	In fact, in the KD, we had decided that we would support this proposal because the intentions are good, but I have a little bit of difficulty completely loosing the demarcation, and I would so wish that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen had been up here before me, for I simply need to hear Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen's speech on the Minister's speech, which in my ears sounded good and satisfactory, also in relation to what is practice and on top of the answers he gave to Mr Bang. Preben Bang Henriksen. So I'm actually a little in doubt, and there's gonna have to be the thing and mr. Excuse me, Preben Bang Henriksen. I would very much like to hear what Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen says, and then we will take a position on the second reading, and we will tell the Left before we end up standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525173036	Thank you for that, sir. Jens Rohde, and then we've reached Mr. Sikandar Siddique, who has also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525173048	Thank you to the authors of the Left for making a proposal and for starting a debate. I would say that the Free Greens cannot support the proposal, and since we are a new party, I would basically like to explain our position with regard to legal policy. It is the case that we believe that, although we in the Danish Parliament have had a strict and rigorous approach to justice policy and have taken a hard line on the hard-boiled crime that is out there, we have seen that we have not solved it. There are still problems with shootings, and there are still gang problems, and that is why we believe that the time has come for a different approach to legal policy. Of course it feels comfortable and good and right that when we experience something or hear about some crazy shooting, we say that now we are putting hard on it. Nevertheless, we know only from research and from those who are dealing with this area that, although that is what we are resorting to, it is not always what works. Therefore, we believe that a research-based and evidence-based approach is needed rather than an approach based more on emotions. So we cannot support the proposal, but we look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525173222	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525173240	Thank you. The current parole practice has been explained by the Minister of Justice in relation to both Danes and foreigners. There is the possibility for Danes to be paroled after two-thirds of the time, in fact as much as half, and for foreigners the usual thing is that you are on parole after half the time without having to serve the rest of the sentence in your home country. That practice and parole is based, as far as I am informed and have been informed, on a recommendation assessment. Is it advisable for him to be paroled? There can be his behaviour in prison, and the question of whether he has done what he is now convicted of, many times before, can easily be involved. So the advice assessment and the question of expulsion can be carried out and clarified immediately. Then there is the question of whether the nature of crime, in other words gravity, is also involved. There I have to say that Professor Linda Kjær Minke, University of Southern Denmark, says to the Stock Exchange on 28 October 2020 in relation to Sanjay Shah: "If he can find out how to behave properly and doesn't come into carambola with some of the conditions that make it advisable to assess it as inadvisable, then he will be paroled after half the time..." So there is nothing to do with the fact that he has committed a very serious crime. The experienced defense lawyer Ulrik Sjølin Pedersen agrees and says: When you are a foreigner and are deported forever, the starting point will be that you will be expelled when you have spent half the time. This has nothing to do with the judgment, but it is an administrative practice. In order to be absolutely sure and not to waste Parliament's time, I then addressed some written questions to the Minister for Justice in the form of Question No. S 168 and I must admit that after reading the answer a few times, I did not really think I had received an answer as to the extent to which the nature of crime is involved. It was certainly not quite clear, let me put it that way. That is why I shall begin the next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S 331 with the words: Will the Minister clarify his answer? After reading the clarification, it was not quite clear to me either, but it may well be me who is wrong with something, to put it plainly. I have to say that, unfortunately, there are others who are also not very clear about the nature of crime, and this applies, among other things. It now charged in the tax case. He tells the Stock Exchange that if he does not rejoice, then at least note that in Denmark you will be released after half the time. So we are at least quite a lot of people who had come across this view, and it is gratifying about such parliamentary treatment that the fairly clear statement by the Minister for Justice, which we can then have the opportunity to confirm, is also in print so that others can see it, and that it is indeed the case that the gravity of the crime affects the possibility of being paroled. Then I can just say that when that is the case, I am completely satisfied. And I'm not gonna interfere with how to handle something like this... whether it's called a story or it can be called a simple statement from the Minister of Justice. In any case, we will have it clarified, and then I am very satisfied. I'm sorry for the confusion, but I think it had its natural background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525173622	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525173651	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 27 May 2021. First of all, Mr President, the rapporteur for the questioners. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, the word for a reason for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525173714	Thank you, President. I think most people who follow the political debate will recognize that the international conventions, Denmark's international obligations, as they are sometimes referred to, are filling up more and more. This in itself does not need to be a problem, but when it is increasingly in debates where more and more people can see that there is a need for us in Denmark to do something different from what we have done so far, it will of course be a democratic problem, i.e. when international conventions, typically written in a completely different time and historical context and perhaps also in a completely different cultural context, still apply today in the same wording and in the same form, and thus have a very different meaning and a very different consequence than what was originally intended. We very often hear that the Convention on Human Rights, in other words the European Convention, was written immediately after the Second World War. This is, of course, quite true historically, but it is also an argument for scepticism as to whether, in its still existing form, it provides meaningful answers to the lives and challenges that we have today in Denmark, in the West, in Europe. In any case, raised above all doubts, it is more and more frequent, when we sit around the negotiating table, whatever it is in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration or other ministries, to negotiate with international conventions through hearty and talented officials than to actually negotiate with each other. Very often this applies, for example. We are in the circle of parties to citizenship and actually agree on what we would like to do, but what is the task of the debate is to find ways through different conventions, for how to do so. There is, of course, something baroque, not to say anything crazy about such vital and central issues, where a large majority of Danes support the austerity parties, if I may use that expression, including, at least for a friendly moment, I am thinking of including social democracy, and wishing to apply austerity in foreign policy, so as to be prevented from doing so because of these conventions written in a completely different time and in a completely different context. It simply cannot be right that conventions, simply because they have grown old, should be an alibi for giving the left in foreign policy and thus putting aside the people and thus democracy. That is why we have wanted today to have a discussion on how Denmark gets its way out of all these conventions and thus ensure that it is the people through the elected Parliament who decide which rules should apply. And, of course, this is particularly important in relation to foreign policy. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525174016	Thank you. There is no possibility of any brief comments right now in this round. There isn't. It is only later that we will be able to make brief comments to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, because this was the reason for the question. The Minister must then have the opportunity to answer the question. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525174042	I know it's the end of the season, and in a moment it's Constitution Day speaking of the talk we're about to have. But there is a need for the Folketing to tighten up the bardunes. As I can just count in my head, there are 12 parties in the Folketing at the moment. Taken by size, it is the Social Democracy, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, Radicals, the Enhedslisten, Conservatives, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats, and then I have not spoken to those who are outside the groups, i.e. the four members of the parliament who are there. And then we have a discussion, a talk, a debate, a question on, I think, a relatively important subject, where then there are a third of the parties who choose to come up with a third, which does not represent a majority of the Things. I am not sitting in a place where I have to interfere with this, but I am just saying that it should therefore give reason for the Folketing to consider its way of working, its method of working and perhaps also its amount of work. Well, that's not really what it's all about here. It's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... Thank you for the question. We have to discuss a subject which, if not others, the questioner and I at least care a lot about other people too, of course, because otherwise the last two parties would not be here either and have had the opportunity to discuss sometimes. I will start by stating the government's approach to international cooperation. For us there is no doubt that strong international cooperation is essential. Not least for a small country like Denmark, it is important that the same basic rules of play apply, and precisely the regulation of the world through law and law and not through the right of the strongest or the most brutal is one of the things that characterises our Western world, the world order, and which is one of the legacy of among other things. World War II and, moreover, the fight against totalitarian ideologies, not least Nazism, fascism and communism. It is in the clear interest of a small country, so that is our starting point. Our international commitments, including human rights, are both right and important. Having said that and we are on the macron floor, if I may say so, we must not, I think, be afraid to take up the debate on the international conventions. We must dare to say this loud and clear when we believe that the Convention on Human Rights or other conventions leads to results that cannot be explained or defended. When it comes to the government's concrete strategy to challenge the conventions, we believe that we should use the political and legal tools that we have a assurance can work in practice. In relation to the expulsion area, this means that we are following closely whether the 2018 Copenhagen Declaration has the desired effect. In fact, I believe, if I may be quite honest, that it is still too early to say anything about the effect of the Copenhagen Declaration, but I believe that the Member States' room for manoeuvre is reflected in a number of important cases against Denmark, including Denmark in the field of expulsion, from the Court of Human Rights. The latest example is the Kahn and Munir Johana cases in which a judgment was handed down in January of this year. In the Kahn case, the Court of Human Rights concluded that it was not a violation of the Human Rights Convention when the Supreme Court expelled the well-known gangster Shuaib Khan, although he was born and raised in Denmark, and the same result was reached in the Munir Johana case, which also concerned expulsion on the basis of crime. The Court of Human Rights clearly stressed that the Danish courts had applied very loyally the criteria of the Court of Human Rights as to when to expel a criminal alien. In this context, the Court of Human Rights referred to the principle of subsidiarity, according to which the Court of Human Rights, when the balance has been made by the national authorities in accordance with the criteria, will require serious reasons to substitute the assessment of the national courts with its own assessment. Both cases are, in my view, not even proof of, but an indication that the efforts made with the Copenhagen Declaration bear fruit. At the same time, the government focuses on maintaining awareness of the importance of States' margin of discretion through an open dialogue on and with the Court of Human Rights on the interpretation of the Convention. Continuous dialogue with the Court of Human Rights is important, but in my opinion it is more important to maintain that human rights and their interpretation also have political implications. The interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights and the question of the Member States' margin of discretion should therefore also be addressed in political contexts, and I myself should be aware of the opportunities to address the issue at political level. This was also precisely the political attention represented in the Copenhagen Declaration. In addition, the government seeks to limit the activist interpretation of the Court of Human Rights by making submissions in relation to other countries' cases. This is what we do in cases which are of major importance to Denmark and which are raised in the Grand Chamber of the Court of Human Rights. In such cases, we typically argue for a less far-reaching interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights, which will give more room for manoeuvre to the Member States. There has been a substantial intensification of efforts in this area in recent years. Thus, since 2018, 10 Danish third party submissions have been made, including 7 submissions in my time as Minister of Justice, and it is to be compared to the fact that only one third party submissions were made between 2002 and 2017. So it is a tool which has been in the toolbox for quite some time, but which we have taken hold of. And we can see that third-party posts actually have a meaning. The Court of Human Rights listens to and takes into account third-party submissions. We saw that, for example. clearly in a case against Belgium from May last year, when the Court of Human Rights explicitly referred to the third party submissions of the Member States in its explanatory statement. Another way in which the government conducts dialogue is by encouraging other countries to make third-party submissions in support of Denmark, and so is the government in the Danish cases pending at the Supreme Chamber of the Court of Human Rights. The government also focuses on making use of the opportunities to tighten the rules within the framework of international conventions. A good example of this is the possibility of denying citizenship. It is the Government's view that the possibility of disqualification from citizenship within the framework of the conventions must be fully exploited. People who commit very serious crime to the detriment of Denmark's vital interests have not, in the view of the government, earned the right to be Danish citizens. That is why I am very pleased that on 4 May this year the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has put forward a bill to the effect that persons convicted of serious gang crimes which seriously harm the vital interests of the State may be deprived of their nationality by judgment. The bill has also been discussed in this Chamber. Of course, the framework of international conventions must be fully respected, but we must never be afraid to take advantage of the opportunities and space offered by international conventions. And it doesn't stop here. Our next step is to examine whether, within the framework of our obligations, there is room for denying the citizenship of persons who have committed other forms of serious crime, such as: Very serious drug crime. I am pleased that the parties to the recent agreement on citizenship support the desire to have this examined in more detail. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for the question and for a good opportunity to discuss the open dialogue on international conventions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525174936	Thank you. One brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available, and the first one comes from Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525174940	I believe the Minister for Justice is not only today, but has repeatedly confirmed that we share a scepticism about this regime we are facing. What is probably the most important area in which we do not agree is the question of the approach. I think that the Minister is providing a very convincing defensorate of what can be done within the framework, but nothing particularly defensorate of why it is not advisable to break the framework. What would actually happen if Denmark stepped out of the National Convention or one of the many other European Council conventions, which lies like an increasingly entangled noose around the neck of the Danish People's Rule and prevents us from doing what I hear the Minister of Justice would like to do. Is there any historical evidence to believe that Denmark would end up in some situation where there were totalitarian forces, communists and Nazis or others who took over the country if we stepped out of these conventions? For that is what is constantly being shot in the shoes, namely that we will return to World War II.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175047	In fact, that is not what I have tried to say, and I think that if we step out of a convention or two or choose to say that we do not want to be involved, then the consequences are concrete enough to be clear. What I am afraid of, what I fear, is that other countries will say that there will be a wave in which we move away from a society governed by law and by law and regulated by agreements, and, on the other hand, I think there is reason to look at that with great, great concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175122	We thank the Minister for Justice. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks, and the first rapporteur to speak is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, and that is Mr Beazley. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175141	Thank you for your answer. But the answer must be: they do it anyway. For what the Minister says is that if Denmark starts to withdraw from the international conventions which, I believe, a large majority of Danes want to go where the pepper grows, yes, it will lead to other countries that are less solidly democratic than Denmark doing the same. They still do, Minister. One would not argue that Turkey, for example, may need to return to Atatürk and the narrow path of democracy, so hold back from violating international conventions because they look up to Copenhagen and say: Nah, Denmark stays on the narrow path of virtue, so I'd better do it down here too. Or take Putin in It is not the case that Putin is saying: well, that is right, in Denmark people stay within the conventions, which seem completely idiotic. That's why I'd better do it too. They don't. That is why this argument is only found in some sophisticational debate. I think most Danes are tired of sophistry. They are tired of being shredded around by some conventions where we do not even have the pleasure that the people who have signed them are among us anymore. For many, it is back in the 1940s and 1950s and 1960s that they were active politicians. I wonder if there is not one of the ancestors of the Minister of Justice who has helped bring Denmark into some of these conventions. There has to be a time when we get to the breaking point and you have to say that enough is enough. So now the argument no longer works that the world will break fire if Denmark does what a majority of Danes probably want. Because the world is already on fire. That is why we in the Danish People's Party say that at least, as the question text says, we could deal with some of what comparable countries make Great Britain, for example, which, with Magna Carta, invented the concept of habeas corpus and which, after the Greeks, laid the foundation stone, one can say, to modern democracy, the modern rule of law; who even added words to the concept that we do not even have a word for in Danish, namely rule of law, and thus really is the foundation of the European legal system. They dare challenge the conventions. They dare to make reservations, for example. can take citizenship from people who are convicted of terrorism; so you can send people home because it is based on national law, but not necessarily compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. There's a lot of ways you could do this. The British are pointing one way. Another might be simply to take and make a Danish human rights law. For my sake, it could be left with the text of the French revolution, which unfortunately has drifted into the darkness of history, namely the declaration of human obligations, and allowed them to be balanced, but where it was then a Danish law interpreted by the Danish authorities, in a Danish context, without having to deal with the judgments handed down in Strasbourg on Azerbaijani people in Georgia who have visited Portugal. What's it to us? Unfortunately, the reality today is quite different from that of the 1950s, when Denmark entered many of these conventions. There we owe it to each other and to the country of origin we call ours to ensure that the Folketing is free to adapt the legislation properly. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If we are discussing citizenship as we did sneeze, then it is not each other that we are negotiating with, then it is the conventions: what must we do? What do we dare? Unfortunately, when it comes to an answer from the government, it is quite, quite a bit, and it is sad when you see that other countries dare to act. That is why, with the permission of the President, I shall read out a proposal for adoption: proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that international conventions stand in the way of necessary reforms of foreign policy in particular. In the most recent agreement on citizenship it was impossible to withdraw the right of citizens of criminals because of Denmark's accession to the National Convention; in the current negotiations on an exit centre, the Danish People's Party's proposal for a region far from Denmark has been rejected as a result of international conventions, as well as in expulsion cases it is well known that the Convention on Human Rights often prevents the expulsion of criminal aliens. International agreements are necessary to ensure orderly frameworks between nations. However, the Folketing wants to see a break with the conventions that prevent the Folketing from implementing foreign policy austerity, which is likely to have a large popular majority behind it. These are written in a different time and context and do not reflect the challenges and reality of Denmark in 2021. Of course, it is more important to ensure the safety and freedom of the Danes than to safeguard conventions that do not reflect the challenges of our time. • V 128).
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175706	The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175712	That's how easy it is, sir. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't let go. Because I remember when I was elected to the Bureau after the parliamentary elections and went out and said that I thought it was time that we started trying to see if we might be able to revise the Constitution. It's from another time. Immediately thunder and lightning came from the Danish People's Party that now you wanted to do away with our good old constitution. There is no connection when one uses the argument that something is written in another time, that it then works if it is that text, but does not stick if it is that text. How logical that argument is, sir. Morten Messerschmidt? Then I'll... no, I'm actually gonna let sir. Morten Messerschmidt will answer that and then I will have another question about the stateless convention in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175805	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175806	The short answer is that Mr. Jens Rohde can read the book I published on the case last autumn and which I have been so incredibly kind to give Mr. Jens Rohde is a signed version of. The longer answer, of course, will be that the Danish constitution is first written in a national context and secondly can be revised. Mr. Jens Rohde will know this has happened, I remember seven times since 1849. The Convention on Human Rights is not reviewed. It is supplemented by some additional protocols, but the basic text remains the same. Thirdly, and this is perhaps the most important argument, the basic law contains only a few implicit political terms of reference. There is little about the general good, as we see in the paragraphs on expropriation. There is generally a very, very broad confidence in the Danish electoral population in the constitution, for example. As you know, this has not happened, but it is because it is based on a popular basis. Of course, the Convention on Human Rights does not. That is why it is two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175910	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175911	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is very much concerned with the stateless Convention and says that it is the reason why we must give citizenship to a whole lot of people who have come here. I don't know if sir. Morten Messerschmidt is aware that the stateless Convention has a very simple provision, and that is that a child born in marriage in Danish territory and whose mother has the nationality of that State must be able to acquire the same nationality at birth if the child would otherwise become stateless. What does that have to do with people who have come here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175944	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525175945	Yes, there are many provisions in that convention, including the fact that people who have been given the right of birth and who have been deprived of it by criminal acts should not have been deprived of it again, if that means that they lose any right of citizenship, that is to say, they can only be deprived of, so to speak, if they have dual citizenship. So there are several provisions in it. Sir. Jens Rohde reminds us that there are several conventions governing the area: there is the citizenship convention and there is the citizenship convention, among other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180015	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus for Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180042	Thank you. Now the Minister of Justice started by pointing out who wasn't here, instead of commending all those who were here, I think you should, and thus also commending the Danish People's Party for asking this question. This is surely an opportunity to discuss once again the issue of the conventions and how we see it. We have had occasion to discuss this on a number of occasions, and I think that is very commendable. I have been listening to the discussion here earlier and have heard both the Minister for Justice and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and I think that we share the view that by challenging the framework of the conventions there is, or where the conventions come across what we actually think is in Danish national interests, we have a clear difference in whether there is a block where we cannot go any further, or we think that we should override that. And as I understand the argument of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who compared it to Turkey and Russia, did I think it was a little interesting, because what is actually the scope of that argument? It's that if they can, so can we. And if we all ran down that track, well then we could break up all conventions tomorrow, because we will always be able to find someone who ignores them, that is obviously right, and if it is a guide for international cooperation, there was no international cooperation, yes, it may be that there was cooperation, but there were no international conventions. Therefore, I think that the scope of the argument put forward by Morten Messerschmidt seems reasonably incalculable in terms of defending the interests of the Danes not only in Denmark but also internationally. Because what do we really have with the conventions? Yes, there we have an international legal order which is outdated and difficult in many areas, and conventions which are out of step with time but which, in any case, ensure a more secure international legal order than before we had the conventions. The conventions we have on human rights are based on a foundation right back from the Enlightenment, I know, starting with the American Declaration of Independence of 1776, the French Declaration on Human Rights and Citizens' Rights of 1789 as the first generation of declarations and so on to the more modern Declaration of Human Rights in the context of the Second World War, declarations which, of course, provide the framework for a way of understanding the world and which do not just give individuals a set of rights that are essential to what we regard as rights which are not natural, of course, but which are politically determined, because we believe that it is actually better than without those rights and that in this way all citizens are given protection, including protection in relation to citizenship. Then, of course, we would like those conventions to look different, and I think we have a common view of that in many areas. But the view that the world was a better place if we followed the example of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions with Turkey and Russia, and I could also mention some others that override the international rules of the game, I do not in fact share them. In fact, I believe that we as Danes are in a better world because we have international conventions and a set of rights which are based on centuries of discussions about what values must be valid for the community in which we live and which are better than if none of the values had been laid down, but which must of course be adapted to the time in which we live, and it is difficult and difficult, and I think it may also be very good that it is difficult and difficult. It does not matter that it is a little a process that develops slowly, but after all a process that develops. It is, of course, the same as our own constitution, which is also developing slowly. In fact, I believe that speed is important: it is not fast, but slow, because we can look at some of the states that are developing rapidly, that they are also the states that have in common, at least, that they are places where people are more insecure and more insecure, and therefore also places that provide a more secure environment for the lives of their citizens. In those words, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament backs up strong international cooperation and that Denmark's international commitments must be respected. At the same time, the focus must be on challenging international conventions, for example. interpretations of the European Convention on Human Rights, which goes too far, and of safeguarding political leeway, including in the field of expulsion. Finally, the Danish Parliament notes that in recent years changes in the law on foreigners have focused on making use of the opportunities to tighten up, among other things. the rules on expulsion and the rules on the withdrawal of nationality as a result of crime within the framework of international conventions. • V 129).
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180609	Thank you. The text of the adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180617	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jeppe Bruus pulls out the historical references and in this way at least gives an opportunity to illustrate the traces of totalitarianism that the human rights idea has drawn from the history of 1789, where heads were chopped off in the sacred name of the declaration, and up to today, when the free right of peoples to decide, among other things. who should have legal access to their country, aside, for the same totalitarian idea that there should be an international law. That's nonsense, of course. Right is always bound to the concrete. And if you don't, sir... Jeppe Bruus was so preoccupied with his philosophers of enlightenment, but on the other hand he cultivated some other philosophers from the same time, for example. Joseph de Maistre, he'd be familiar with it. What is interesting in the text that Mr. Jeppe Bruus read out, are the four little words that go too far. Where is it that the Convention on Human Rights goes too far? That concept only makes sense when it comes to something else, and it does not in that text, Mr President. Jeppe Bruus read, and then it's just sophistication that I talked to the Minister of Justice about. Compared to what is going too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180730	Now we've made this text together, and it's fair enough that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't want to be a part of it. It is quite true that it leans on some of the discussions we have. The Minister for Justice referred to me in his speech two cases where the Copenhagen Declaration has actually succeeded in creating a different room for manoeuvre in relation to the discussion as regards the cases and the number of parties' submissions etc. So we have ongoing discussions on matters, but it is quite right that we do not share the basic view as to whether or not we are playing within the framework of the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180819	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180822	I note that the rapporteur is not responding, and that is because what the term 'too far' has to do with is, of course, the justice which the rapporteur apparently believes human rights should contain. But there is no global, universal justice, because if there was, we agreed on how morality and ethics should be organized across cultures, religions and borders, but, as we know, we are not. That may also be why the tradition of freedom is so serious about human rights if we are to include the Enlightenment in so many other parts of the world, but that is also why it is an illusion to imagine that we should have a fairer society in Denmark, because we conform to what some judges along the banks of the Rhine down in France have thought about the state of law in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180908	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180910	I fully agree, and I actually think I said in my speech that those rights are not natural. After all, it is a set of rights and conventions that have been negotiated over time, and I think I also said that some of it is deeply outdated in our understanding of what the world looks like today. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180928	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no more brief comments. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525180954	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising a debate that we have had before, but that is why we can take it back, because it is an interesting debate that has no doubt about it. Whether or not we are professing an international legal order is really what we are discussing here today, and I feel that the waters are divorcing, because in the Left we are committing ourselves to an international legal order and believe that this is a way in which free democracies can help to promote human rights elsewhere on the planet. And that is why, of course, it is no good if we say that within Denmark's borders the international legal order must have no say. In other words, if international conventions never set a limit on what a parliament could do, one might as well not have them. That is why it has sometimes been annoying if someone wanted to do something and then they have been told that they could not do so, with reference to some conventions. But if the conventions never provided a framework for what we could do, one might as well not have them. I know that the Danish People's Party would certainly welcome that, but we do not want to do so in the Left. However, we are in favour of challenging what is stated in the conventions, or rather how the conventions are interpreted, because they are usually very summary in their wording. It may not be very different and must then be filled in in concrete case law. And that case law will be, among other things. The European Court of Human Rights, however, is also laid down in national law, and it became apparent, for example, that the Supreme Court was too reluctant to approve, for example, expulsions of criminal foreigners; it was pointed out that this was not possible in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, but it proved to be wrong. As then director of the Institute of Human Rights, Dr. Jur. Jonas Christoffersen a fairly thorough examination of the case law of the Court of Human Rights, where it was found that Danish courts, the Supreme Court, were simply too reluctant to exercise; that was not so in the case law of the Court of Human Rights. Reference was made to a number of specific cases and thus reached the point that it was possible to show more than it did. And it has since gained ground in Danish courts. There are even judgments which refer directly to the Foundation's review of practice. So some of the anger directed at the Court of Human Rights is unjustified, among other things. in the field of expulsion. But so, it is one of those areas where we probably never reach agreement with the Danish People's Party, and that is the way it is. I believe that both sides live well with this, but it is just to say that the Court of Human Rights and the Convention on Human Rights are far, far better than their reputation. I also believe that we should be much better able not only to point out in such a mechanical way that we cannot do so because of the conventions, but perhaps more so: we cannot do so because of the conventions, but we do not want to do so either, because we believe that human rights are sensible from their point of view. Human rights protect individuals from abuses by state power, and that is something that is supported by liberals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181407	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181409	I think so, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen must go out to tell all the victims of criminal abuse by foreigners who are prevented from leaving Denmark as a result of the Convention on Human Rights. This speech was really the most depressing speech today. In other words, the Minister gave one, I think, optimistic message, namely that Denmark is part of these conventions, otherwise the world will become a worse place. That's what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said that Denmark is part of these conventions, otherwise Denmark would become a worse place. That's good, says Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that there is a framework for what we just want Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen to confirm the totalitarian view of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181505	So I will not confirm that, because I do not believe that I or my party have a totalitarian view of democracy. And maybe I think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt must have had an absence during much of my speech. Maybe it was a bit boring too, so he's excused. But I specifically said that human rights apply around the world. This is a way in which we in free democracies can improve the human rights situation in a number of other countries. That is why we will not be able to say: but it is only something that applies in other countries and if there is a case in Denmark where human rights are violated, no, then human rights are not good. That would be very, very untrustworthy, and that is why we would not be able to fight the cause of human rights in the world with human rights in our hands if we did not also recognise that, of course, they should also apply in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181605	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181608	So we come to the conclusion that this is still about a better world, for Mr. However, Jan E. Jørgensen is confident that the voters can put together a Parliament that does not throw us completely beyond the edge. It's nice to see that we got there; it was a rough birth. Then I have to ask: how does Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen basically that's all right? The United Kingdom, for example, has Subject to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Can he mention some of the consequences of the removal of sovereignty by the British in the darker countries of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181643	It was a very large and open question which I really do not think Mr. Morten Messerschmidt expects a longer answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181651	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525181711	Thank you. After all, international conventions cover a great many different things. There are conventions in the field of disability; there are conventions that protect against discrimination against women; there are conventions that give rights to refugees who need protection; there are conventions that criminalise torture; and there are conventions that protect children's rights. In other words, there are a great many both sensible and necessary international rules that guarantee the fundamental rights of the individual and protect it from arbitrary exercise of power. In SF we attach great importance to Denmark fulfilling its international obligations, especially in the field of human rights. And we attach great importance to Denmark being also known as a country that works for and has a positive attitude towards strong rule-based international cooperation and is working to ensure that human rights can work effectively across the globe. All the evidence suggests that there is more need for conventions than ever, and we should see them as a mark of honour at a time when undemocratic regimes everywhere in the world have a win in the sails of regimes that give the hell in protecting the fundamental rights of the individual, freedom of expression, equality and democracy. It is certainly a sign of democratic health that we, as a country and as a population, are aware of who and to what extent we give up sovereignty when we accede to international conventions and to binding international cooperation in addition, and we must always be able to have a critical discussion about how the conventions are understood and how international courts interpret them. But that does not detract from the fact that we basically need strong international rules of the game, which the conventions are an expression of. I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, who unfortunately cannot be here in the Chamber. And then I have to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Radical Left, Enhedslisten and SF, and it says this: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament attaches great importance to Denmark being known as a country that works for and has a positive attitude towards strong rule-based international cooperation and working for human rights to work effectively across the globe. International conventions are therefore important at a time when undemocratic regimes everywhere in the world are gaining ground. We must always be able to discuss how the conventions work, but that does not detract from the fact that we basically need strong international rules of play, which are the conventions. • V 130).
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182012	Thank you for that and the proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182017	Thank you. Well, it doesn't come as a big surprise that the SF would rather see the Court of Human Rights than the Folketing settle matters. But perhaps there is also reason to ask a few questions about the way in which Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt views the procedural rules of the Court of Human Rights, that is to say, the fact that very often even far-reaching cases are decided only by written submission, the fact that there are obvious inability problems with many judges in specific cases and that we have discussed earlier in this Chamber, the fact that many NGOs have a seemingly privileged position in relation to hearing the hearing of the Court of Human Rights, and, basically, that the procedural guarantees that are put to the parties under the Danish Code of Procedure are completely absent from the Court of Human Rights and, last of all, that we could not obtain the manual which regulates the procedural rules of the Court of Human Rights. Does Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt find this particularly reassuring?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182110	Well, I think I'm looking a little differently at the Court of Human Rights than sir. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, just as I most likely also see the conventions a little differently from Mr. Messerschmidt. Morten Messerschmidt. I don't have a horn in the side of the Court of Human Rights. I know, sir. Morten Messerschmidt has, and he has problems with many of the things they do. I think it is right that we should have a court of law which can take a position on these human rights issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182139	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182141	Okay, but then let me ask you a little more directly: now that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has such great confidence in the European Court of Human Rights, what are her expectations of the procedural rules underlying cases before the European Court of Human Rights? Does she have an assumption that they are running according to the same standard as in Danish courts, significantly better or significantly worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182210	I have no expectation that one can put one to one in relation to Danish courts. Of course, this cannot be done, because this is a court which affects a great many countries, and therefore, of course, there will be some things that are different. But basically we think we should respect the judgments that come from there, and we think it is a good thing that we have an upper body to decide on these human rights issues. In fact, we think this is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182233	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182250	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for calling this honest debate, so that we can have a debate about what it is really about, instead of the resolutions which often come from the Danish People's Party and which we know cannot be done because of the conventions. Then I think it is more appropriate that we have an honest debate on the conventions. I could actually be very brief and say that Enhedslisten likes the conventions, that Enhedslisten likes the Court of Human Rights and that Enhedslisten thinks that we are on the shoulders of the conventions. But now that I have regained my voice and gained access to the platform, I would still like to say a little more. During the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2018, the then Danish government managed to adopt the so-called Copenhagen Declaration. This happened after many months of Danish lobbying aimed at getting the European Court of Human Rights to interfere less in the tight Danish immigration policy. Now, fortunately, the Copenhagen Declaration did not go as far as the first Danish draft, but today, three years later, there has been a general consensus among those who follow the practice of the European Court of Human Rights that the declaration led the court to draw the emotional horns and to show greater restraint in interfering. When it was clear that the Copenhagen Declaration could be adopted, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen to Ritzau, and now I quote: 'The defence of respect for human rights is with the individual countries. We do not need a second opinion from Strasbourg. ▪ The Enhedslisten is completely, completely disagreeing with the former Minister of Justice's point of view. When we have a Convention on Human Rights and a Court of Human Rights, it is precisely the expression that it is not good enough to leave responsibility for respecting human rights to individual countries. Russia, Hungary and Turkey are all countries that have joined the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights, but it is probably difficult to argue that we should just leave the responsibility for respecting human rights in the three countries to Putin, Orbán and Erdogan. At least I don't trust that. Fortunately, in Denmark human rights violations are not as extensive as in the aforementioned countries, but we also need a second opinion from Strasbourg, because otherwise, I think, we are ill-advised. If it had not been for the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in 1989, we could now have a practice in which the same judge, who has more than 30 times been in custody in prison, was to be a judge at the trial. The Court of Human Rights ruled in 1989 that such a judge would be ill-advised. It's just an example. Another example: if it had not been for the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the Jersild case in 1994, we could today have a media landscape in which newspapers, web media, radio and television held back from reproducing extremist views and thus concealed them. The Court of Human Rights stated that the messenger, the journalist, cannot be punished for reporting extreme views. These are all cases from the last millennium, some will object so much, and they will say that we do not need this second opinon from Strasbourg today, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has said. Today, of course, we have the order of human rights in Denmark or do we have it? Fortunately, last summer, I would say on behalf of the Enhedslisten, we got rid of a government that made it its declared goal to go to the edge of Denmark's international conventions and challenge the conventions, and which was willing to run the process risk when tightening in the field of foreigners. Today, I am glad to say, we have a government which has promised that it will always respect the international conventions, as it is also in the understanding document. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that we have a government which is pursuing the policy of foreigners of the old government and thus balances on the brink, for example, of expelling Syrian refugees to the death and destruction of the dictator from whom they have fled, and when, I must say, you spend six months, no, in fact two years discussing whether to respect your obligations towards Danish citizens who are in prison camps in north-east Syria. Fortunately, the government has changed its attitude a little, and I believe that we can move the government to take all children and women home. But that discussion must not be allowed to continue. In any case, the Enhedslisten can support the adoption text that Mrs Karina Lorentzen read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182753	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182756	Thank you. First of all, in order to satisfy Mrs Rosa Lund's need to understand now that we in the Danish People's Party want to put the law before the parasitic human rights. That will then apply in relation to all debates from here. We support the rule of law and not what comes from Strasbourg. Having said that, one of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right to life is Article 2. Will Mrs. Rosa Lund explain her view of the right to life? What is life?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182835	I would very much like to say that to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. My great-great-great-grandfather was Karl Torp and was the one who actually abolished the death penalty in Denmark. At least he was the one who wrote the report that the Folketing used to make that decision. So we are very proud of that in my family, imagine, dear colleagues. The right to life acts for me, among other things. That you should not be punished with death. I think that's a pretty good example of the right to life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182907	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182910	Yeah, and that's a corner of it. Another corner could be the question of the right to take your own life. Does Mrs Rosa Lund think that the question of whether you are entitled to euthanasia is suitable for a court decision, or is it something that a parliament should deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182929	In fact, that is a very good question, I would like to say to Mr. President. Morten Messerschmidt, whom I haven't thought about until now, I have to admit honestly. I think it must be something that Parliament decides and I would also add that I do not agree that human rights and so that being a supporter of a community governed by the rule of law are opposed to each other. In fact, I would say that this goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525182950	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183012	Thank you for that, President, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question and thank you to the parties for a good and exciting debate. In the Conservative People's Party, we recognise that not everything about the international conventions works to the top. I believe that at some point all Danes have shook their heads over the barriers that we, as a society, run into when it, for example. the expulsion of criminal foreigners, but fortunately it is also going the right way. After all, the Copenhagen Declaration, which was adopted in 2018 with Denmark as the main actor, intends to place two points under the sovereignty and participation of the individual Member States on their own citizens and rights. It is an important step that countries agree that they themselves should have more influence on what is happening in relation to the courts. In the Conservative People's Party, we are in favour of the European Community and the things that are also included. The changes we want to create must come from within and not just by turning our backs on them. We will have the best influence by being around the table and taking part in the issues and discussions that lie in the interests of the European Community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183131	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183135	Now I have heard several rapporteurs using the word sovereignty. So, first I thought it was a statement, but I would like to point out that the ratification or incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights, which in fact took place under a conservative minister of justice, did not take place on the basis of Article 20. In other words, it is not the case that the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights have immediate effect in Denmark. They have only because we have adopted a law which says that we choose to make it Danish. It is not a question of giving up sovereignty. And that's very happy, because that means that sir... Per Larsen himself must answer for the judgments which Denmark and the Danish authorities are thus forced to follow. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Per Larsen, is: what is being talked about when, in the text of the adoption which I understand, Mr President? Per Larsen is part of, says that something goes too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183227	Now I have to admit that I am here as a substitute on today's occasion, and I have been given the task of reading out this speech that the rapporteur has written.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183242	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183302	Thank you. Conventions confer civil rights and rights cannot be established or maintained for anyone without imposing obligations or burdens on others. The rights conferred by the conventions on foreigners impose burdens on Danes which, as a citizen, are clearly felt in their everyday lives, but which are often forgotten when politicians and opinion-formers ideologically and without any reflection on the consequences of the conventions, which were the sacred writings. On Wednesday last week, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen made a turnaround of dimensions when the Prime Minister decided actively to bring three IS terrorists to Denmark. After more than a year telling the Danes that under no circumstances would the government bring the terrorists here, the message was now that it is less dangerous to take them to Denmark today than it is if they arrive in a few years' time. The preface to the government is that terrorists should retain their right to continue to call themselves Danish, at whatever cost they want, and that is crazy. Terrorists who have joined the Islamic State have in the most horrible way themselves rejected the right to be part of the Danish community, and they should of course live with the consequences of their choices and have deprived their Danish citizenship just like the other terrorists who have left Denmark. But the government will not, so now the three female terrorists and their children come to Denmark, and the Danish people will bear the burden of the rights of terrorists. Why? Yes, because consideration for the IS terrorists and international conventions for the government weighs more heavily than consideration for the freedom and security of law-abiding Danes. After all, this is a completely incomprehensible political priority. However, it is not only IS terrorists who gain freedom and rights at the expense of Danes' security when the government gives priority to conventions. Prohibited rapists, drug-convict and murderers are also allowed to walk freely to the danger to the population, and this creates insecurity. On Thursday last week, the government announced the establishment of a new exit centre on Langeland. Of course, the Langes are concerned and angry about the idea of having an exit centre in their vicinity, and we can hear them standing here in the Palace Square. I've just been down there, and I understand them. No Danes are to be ravaged by criminal aliens. The government is trying to cover itself up with promises of more police force and theft of the Longlanders' homes, but it must be said to be like a disney patch on a flesh wound. The Danes should not live in insecurity and be locked up with extra anti-theft protection, massive police protection and surveillance because the criminals will not leave the country. Criminal foreigners must go out, and if they cannot, they must find a place where there is only one door out, and that is the door out of the country and they must be kept separate from the population, but here too the conventions stand in the way. The criminals sentenced to expulsion, despite being sentenced to expulsion and therefore logically should not be able to walk freely in Denmark, have the right to have access to society. After all, it lacks any logic, just as it lacks logic, that only about a third of the foreign rapists are travelling out of the country. Too many people are allowed to stay. The same is true of other serious situations where foreigners are sentenced for, among other things: People-dangerous crime, no expulsion. Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights on the right to family life is interpreted extremely far-reachingly by the European Court of Human Rights. It is not in Denmark's interest to deposit our popular rule and self-determination in obsolete conventions and international courts, and it is quite irresponsible to grant and maintain far-reaching rights for deep criminal foreigners at the expense of the security and freedom of the Danes. The conventions are made in a different time and for a different purpose. They are not sacred writings, and the conventions which place unreasonable burdens on the Danish population and stand in the way of a fair foreign policy must either be denounced or rejected by giving Danish law priority over the Convention. Legislation must match the place, conditions and experience where the effects of legislation are felt. For us, the place is Denmark, because it is the Danes who bear the consequences. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183737	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183740	Thanks for the words. I just want to ask whether Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens can support the adoption text I have read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183750	We shall take a position on this during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183752	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183754	But why should we be kept in suspense? Why can we not now know whether Mrs Pernille Vermund can support the text that was read at the beginning of the debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183804	Because we haven't been given it until now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183806	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is from the Christian Democrats. Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525183827	It's always fun to hear what the conventions are all about. It's almost everything from murder and terrorism to bad weather. What many forget and, unfortunately, especially on the bourgeois wing, which historically has very great honour, I believe that having led the cosmopolitan world into the everyday life of the Danes is awareness of the cosmopolitan world. It has, like, been avoided from chasing light points of view. The conventions have been created to prevent the flow of refugees. That's the truth. That is why, for example. Denmark, Norway and Sweden already in the 1950s made a law that was to end statelessness. We did so before the United Nations, because the UN Convention did not arrive until 1961. That is why I think we should be a little cautious in blaming the conventions for all the legislation that is based on the way in which we deal with our legal society in Denmark, even when it comes to criminal foreigners. No one wants them to be here, but it is just that we have the legal situation in that country, not as a result of a convention, but as a state of affairs in that country, that when we have been punished, we have in principle settled the balance with society. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt writes that the conventions will be challenged. I don't think so. I think the DF wants to get out of the conventions. I actually thought that was quite clear when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt gave his speech. We could then bring Denmark into line with the Greek junta regime, which, I believe, is the only thing that has ever resigned from the Convention on Human Rights. By the way, they rejoined when they got democracy. But I do understand that DF would like to get out of the conventions. Because that makes it possible to drive the state in which the end justifies the means; where the majority always have the right to do with the minority, what they want; where the state can legislate retroactively; where the state punishes collectively; where it is we in here who decide the guilt issues, and the executive authority who almost has to make the penalty payment; a state that creates inequality for the law; separates children and parents; and a state where freedom is such a thing that the rulers distribute in portions to various groups, which, moreover, have only to be grateful for our efforts for Danish democracy. It's not the society I want to live in. That is why I am pleased that we have an international legal order. I'm just wondering why I'm watching Mr. Morten Messerschmidt as a gifted person who is even a qualified lawyer that you can stand for the view that there should not be an international legal order; that you can stand for the view that the one's mistakes excuse the other's: If Erdogan does this, then we can just. No, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, the one's mistake never excuses the other's. What if Russia joins and joins again? I have heard the Danish People's Party speak in favour of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt must correct me if it is wrong that you should resign, and then you can join with some reservations. I mean, I've heard. But what if Russia joins and returns, subject to Article 10 on freedom of expression? What if Poland joins and returns, subject to Article 6, on fair trial? What if Turkey resigns and re-enters, subject to Article 3 on the prohibition of torture? Then there is not much human rights protection left in Europe, and then there is no international legal order. The Convention will simply lose its meaning and it will be fatal for Europe if we in Denmark gamble with that system by putting our own membership at risk. Of course, things can be challenged. They must do so politically through a debate by putting it on the agenda. But this is not done by consciously moving beyond the edge to ensure our own right to do what we want with everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184336	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184339	When Mr. Jens Rohde says that the Greek junta withdrew Greece from the European Convention on Human Rights, would he just confirm that the European Convention on Human Rights did not prevent the Greek junta from taking power?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184358	Yeah, that's absolutely right. You can't stop any country there. There is no one to stop us from resigning from conventions if we want to. We can do that at any time. It's just not advisable in my optics. I think it's quite fair, if that's what you're talking about. Morten Messerschmidt's optics, and we clearly view the world very differently. Peace be with it, I think it's entirely legitimate, but I wouldn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184427	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184429	Will Mr. Jens Rohde then reflect on what it is that creates a democracy, a rule of law, when it is clearly not the European Convention on Human Rights? For it has not protected the Russians against Putin, the Turks against Erdogan, nor the Greeks against the military. So what may it be that makes some countries become democratic anyway and develop traditions of freedom, habeas corpus principles, etc.? Where did it come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184458	Yes, of course it comes from traditions that are built up popularly. I fully acknowledge that, and I also recognise the nation state here as our framework for what we have created. At the same time, however, we have done so with a view to creating an international legal order after World War I and after World War II, because it should help to reduce the flow of refugees. For statelessness and the like create migrations, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and that's why we did it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184534	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more brief comments. And then we are in the first place through the rapporteur's line, and then the Minister first. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt get the floor in another round. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525184557	Thank you for the debate. Let me deal with some of the things that have been said. We've been around this whole stateless convention thing, and if you can't just step out and then step back in. The fact is that Denmark has, at the time, ratified the stateless Convention without reservation. Some other states do not, for example. Belgium, but also the UK, and that gives them the opportunity, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt calls for citizenship to be taken from people without being left with another citizenship. Denmark has ratified the Convention in 1977, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt suggested that there were probably some in my family who were responsible for the fact that we had ended up there. It is absolutely true that my grandfather, Per Hækkerup, was Minister for Economic Affairs at the time, but has not that convention, after all, belonged to somewhere else in the government? I shall not be able to say it, but in any case I am happy to be inherited and indebted in every respect. Enough about that. Then I would like to mention the possibility that has been mentioned: if we cannot withdraw from the Convention and then rejoin the Convention. Now we are stepping out of the stateless Convention as we are, and then we will come back with a reservation. See, there is the fact that some of what is in force, and I do not even know whether it is a convention or whether it has simply been established that this is the case as the court is, is that it would be contrary to what is called Treaty law, that is to say, the way in which we make agreements with each other, what applies to the agreements, that is to say, if a convention were to be denounced for the sole purpose of rejoining with a declaration or a reservation. This could also give rise to some of the problems which Mr. Jens Rohde pointed to before. And no State has denounced the stateless Convention, nor has it done so in order to rejoin a declaration or reservation. That is why the situation around Britain is somewhat different, and there are other options than those that we have. To be specific, in the course of the debate I remembered the old quotation by Winston Churchill that democracy is the worst possible form of government, apart from all the others. The same applies in reality to our international conventions. The fact that there are many things to criticize: it is often slow, often infinitely ineffective, often there are countries that do not take it seriously in the same way as we do and so on, but the alternative would be worse because the alternative would be a world that was not governed by law and law, but by the right of the strong or by the right of the most brutal, as we have seen over time. Some have then asked whether it would really matter if we were in the situation that there were international conventions that we were no longer part of. Yeah, I mean that, actually. In my opinion, some of the foundations for Denmark's independence and existence as a state are that we are involved in NATO cooperation. We just need to think back to the situation with Trump, which began to shake hands with NATO cooperation, what it gave of chills in Europe. This is an example of binding international cooperation which, in my opinion, has ensured that Denmark is a nation. Let me take something that goes a little further. I believe that when we have to, and indeed we must, manage the climate change that is happening, the climate regulation that is needed is entirely dependent on our having international cooperation in the area of climate change. It is impossible to imagine that each country alone should find a way of making climate adjustments which together will ensure the planet the development that we would like to see. Or some of what we discussed last week, namely this regulation of the market, the social media that has grown up. You can, of course, make individual national regulations, but it's hard to imagine that we really need to get to grips with these social media and the big companies that are behind it if it's not tied up with some kind of international cooperation. These are just examples of the interest that we have in a world that works together through law and law, through international rules. Then I agree with what has been said along the way and is sometimes overlooked. Sometimes there is a perception that human rights are something universal, that they are almost natural. It's not. It is something that we have created and that can be removed again if it should be. There has also been a view that, as time went by, human rights, because they have the strength they have, would spread to the rest of the world, but there is no indication of that anymore. Human rights are under pressure, and the best examples are probably some of the countries in the Middle East who say: yes, human rights are very good, but we just have to remember that Sharia law is above human rights. Or China, which says that human rights are fine, but that is then under the ideology that is ours, and that is why there is not such a particular truth or value attached to human rights. They only have the strength that we give them, which is why, of course, we also have a fundamental need to defend them, but also to be able to discuss them so that they continue to keep up with time, so that we continue to have an interest in them, so that we continue to feel loyalty to them, and this is where today's debate becomes interesting, because it is here that we have some courts, the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights, which, in my opinion, in some cases has gone so far in its activist interpretation that we have moved away from the democratic legitimacy that is to be included, because otherwise the system will lose the support of our people, of the nations, and thereby we are losing it. That is why, because it is not natural, we must keep on discussing and criticising the development of human rights when it is needed. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185307	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185310	I would like to ask the Minister for Justice the same question that I asked Mr. Jens Rohde: Where does democracy, the rule of law, the idea of freedom come from, all that we normally regard as Western values, but which in particular must be said to be Danish values? Does the Minister for Justice think that it will come because Denmark has ratified the European Convention on Human Rights, or could it be more likely to go deeper?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185339	I'm sure it'll go deeper. It can be said that human rights, as we saw them after the Second World War, grew in the shadow of absolutely monstrous human violations, genocide and everything else. They were actually created in the bloodbath of young American men, first and foremost, buried on the coasts of Europe, who have given their lives for the world order which is ours, where human rights are an essential part, but where other things, such as the one we are discussing today, are not the same. The belief in democracy, the belief in trade between countries, also gives value, and where for example. a resistance to this belief that a single strong leader is a good way of governing a society has grown up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185439	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185440	Indeed, it can be said that the two most well-known European human rights declarations have both emerged from a genocide, in 1789, which killed the nobility under Robespierre, and then, as the Minister mentions, with the modern European declaration. But what is interesting is how, if the Minister can see that it is not the Convention on Human Rights that makes democracy flourish, how does it create a tradition of freedom and everything that we regard as Western values, then it could be the guarantor of the opposite? So, how could it be in countries where there are no natural prerequisites for such values to prevent them from eroding?
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185522-2	What I said, and that is also what was asked in the first place, was that democracy is rooted deeper. I did not say that democracy and human rights have nothing to do with each other. I just think that our democracy, our world order, is on much more than just human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185542	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt would like to round the debate off or at least start with another round. You can do that, because what happens is that the second round opens. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525185634	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for the debate which, at certain times, has run off in one, one must say, bizarre direction, as when the Minister of Justice felt called upon to defend Denmark's membership of NATO. That is, it has to be said, a little distant from what we are talking about, not least because my text of adoption says directly: 'International agreements are necessary to ensure a general framework between nations'. So we do not really need to tackle NATO membership in order to discuss the major problem of human rights in particular, both in concrete terms and in principle. Now we have had a great deal of discussion on the specific issue, so let me conclude with the more fundamental one. Droits humains, as it is said in French, thus rights granted to everyone because he is a human being, not a citizen attached to a state, a national context, as one knows from Roman law, where the fact that one could say the words "I am a Roman citizen" gave the implicit rights attached to the Roman Aquilia. No, just because you're human, you have some rights. Already there the matter is beginning to become a little bit questionable, all the time you can look around the world and see that not many countries in the world have the same protection of rights as we know in Denmark. What may be the reason for this? This could be because we do not agree on what is just, paradoxically, because Article 6 of the Human Rights Convention states that everyone has the right to justice, but, funny enough, there is quite a difference between how we view the just society and, consequently, how societies around the world, but even within the European countries that have ratified the same convention, have chosen to interpret precisely justice. There is a big difference between how we look at democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, yes, even Mrs Rosa Lund of the Enhedslisten, who has chosen to leave the Chamber here, was a little in doubt about what should actually be put in a somewhat as fundamental principle as the right to life, i.e. Article 2. I dare not ask what we understand by the right to the absence of torture. After all, it gives two fundamental considerations, one of which is: what does it do to the court when we do not agree on what is just? Yeah, it does happen. And in order to correct for the chance, we have the Minister mentioned Churchill's invented democracy. We can live with the electorate making a wrong decision. I would even venture to say that we have seen this in Denmark a few years ago because we know that we can correct it again, because we should not put together a Parliament in the expectation that it reflects an eternal justice, a universal truth, because truth and justice as concepts are always linked to the concrete. It is precisely for this reason that it does not make much sense on such fundamental principles as we are dealing with in the Convention on Human Rights to suggest that there are common answers to it. But that is what the majority of the Folketing has today confirmed that they will. That is why we insist that judgments, where Denmark may not even be a party, which interpret how freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, life, torture and other essential concepts are to be understood in a concrete context, should be crucial to how we in Denmark should organise legislation. That is where human rights become parasites because they break with everything on which the rule of law and democracy are based, but force themselves into the domain of democracy and the rule of law by cheating on it. That is why human rights belong in the dung heap of history. Of course, what creates a good society of law, a healthy democracy, a homogeneous society has not emerged from the misfortunes of the French Revolution or World War II. It is to have a nation, a culture, a tradition, as Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned that can carry these values. That is precisely what we know in the opposition education philosophy, among other things. from Joseph de Maistre, but as we also know from older Danish legislation like for example. The preamble to the Law of Jutland, which states that the law must be based on the national, on the handed down, that it must be recognizable, it must be understood, etc. All of this is the rule of law and is the law, all of which is in opposition to the Convention on Human Rights, with which we therefore want to fight. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525190132	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I shall see if anyone else wishes to speak here in the second round. There isn't. That concludes the debate. May.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525190217	Then the Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs are also present. The debate is open. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525190245	I'm sorry for the outcome. I would like to begin by thanking the Socialist People's Party for tabling a motion for a resolution on the creation of a four-year free village scheme. I would also like to thank you for the discussion we had on 29 April on a related proposal from the Left. I know from the debate on the Left's motion for a resolution B 154 that there is broad support for the idea of open villages. I took note of the fact that all the rapporteurs present at the first reading of the B 154 were in favour of an open village attempt. I myself also announced on 29 April that I am in favour of the idea of giving a number of villages and island communities the freedom to develop projects and demonstrate new ways of developing rural areas and islands. I am, of course, also in favour of the ideas behind motion for a resolution B 292. This must be seen in the light of the fact that we in the government want a more coherent Denmark with a balance between the country and the city, and we must have the proximity back and make up for the centralisation that has taken place over decades, and it is of course central to make an extra effort for the villages and the small islands as well. We have already taken some steps. There is the rural pool, which is allocated 62 million. kr. to, and where applications are opened now for 2021, and it is specifically for villages under the theme of the good village life now and in the future. In addition, we will set aside 93 million. kr. in LAG funds up to 2027, and I also hope that there will be support for this in the agricultural negotiations. I think that is also a crucial part of strengthening rural areas, i.e. that we have good local action groups. It is also essential that the legislation sets the right framework for our villages and small islands, so that good initiatives are not unduly hampered by sensible research into the possibilities of these free villages. The Socialist People's Party's proposal for an experiment with open villages differs slightly from that of the Left, among other things. In this context, it should be pointed out that the pilot projects must have a certain non-profit-making purpose and benefit the broad majority. The SF also explicitly stresses that the projects must not have adverse effects on nature and the environment. Despite the differences between the two motions for resolutions, it is quite obvious that we are thinking them together. With the great interest in an experiment with free villages across the parties of the Folketing, I think it is also possible to find a common ground in this matter. As we discussed last time, there is a need to continue working on what an experiment with open villages might look like. We need to clarify the framework for the experiment, and for the selected villages and islands, there must be a clear space for concrete development and rethinking. At the same time, it is essential that an experimental system also takes account of natural values and the environment. The motion for a resolution on open village experiments contains a great many good elements and intentions. An experimental scheme offers both a potential for the villages selected but also wider if the experiments can provide examples of what can be done to reverse development. It is still my view that there is a need to work more in depth on the details of an experiment with open-air villages and, as I said, the government is positive about the proposal. That is why I would like to make it clear once again that I would like to invite interested parties to further discuss the proposal for a free village scheme with a view to coming up with a concrete model that will provide new opportunities for development for local communities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525190619	There are no brief comments, so we thank you. We go to the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525190642	Thank you, President. About two weeks ago, we had a good debate in this Chamber, I think, on a similar proposal from the Left, a proposal similar to what the SF has put forward and which we are discussing here today. At that time I expressed the view of the Social Democrats that centralisation has probably gone too far and that there is a need to look at other and new ways of working so that rural areas and islands can find solutions that can contribute to a balanced Denmark. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also in favour of the proposal's intentions for a free village scheme. However, we think it is necessary to look more closely at the specific content, funding, governance and so on, but as we see it, these are not things that cannot be resolved. As I also said last time, perhaps it is not the proposal as it stands here that we must work exactly on. But I would suggest that we in the committee should continue with a report and then look forward to parties being called for negotiations with the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525190756	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Peter Juel-Jensen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525190814	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this debate, which is extremely important. Our islands and our rural areas exude from innovation, and they exude from good ideas that are just waiting to be put into system and get into production. After all, we have dealt with similar proposals from my party, from the Left, and in fact there is not so much that separates the two proposals. But I just think that the proposal here from the SF fences things in too much. After all, there are no two rural areas and there are no two islands that are similar. There are different positions of strength, and there are different things out locally that can help ensure that there is an increased settlement and that there is increased growth. That's why we can't do one size fits all. So when the SF operates here with a certain number of islands and a certain number of rural areas having an opportunity to develop, I think that when we are now making the joint report, because I would like to add to that, we should try to see whether we can spread it out a little more, also to take account of the fact that you are not the same. It is not a model we have to develop here, because you are very different; we just have to give room for the forces that are already out there to have an opportunity to evolve. The SF also points out in the proposal here that everything around the law of plans is in a completely different place. You can agree or disagree with that. I guess I disagree a little, too, because I think that the law of plans is a growth inhibitor. The law on plans includes, among other things: A beach protection line, 300 m from the water edge, 300 m into the country, you cannot actually develop at all, and if we take our islands, there is not much room left. If we take the slightly larger islands, there is a coastal proximity zone of 3 km, where you are also very limited. I believe that we need to have more confidence that those who live out there, who have to live with the decisions and who also have to make the decisions, do not adopt anything that can help to set foot in the fantastic place where they now live. So I think we can get very far, both in developing our rural areas and in developing our islands, if we just start by unleashing freedom, but also if we just dare on the part of Christiansborg to show them the trust that they now deserve. I hope that we can land this proposal in such a way that we can take our proposal and this proposal and make one joint report, because I very much agree with the Minister that it is a long time since we have seen ruralschristiansborg speak with one voice and we actually have a unique opportunity here. Thank you again for raising this suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191051	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I'm just gonna clean this place up. I hope we don't have to do this soon. Thank you. Then it's Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191120	Thank you. Recently, in this Chamber, we discussed a proposal from the Left on an experimental scheme for open-air villages. It is a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to support. The reason why we support the Left's proposal is that, contrary to the proposal we are looking at here, the Left is dealing with the huge problem of small islands with the fact that the law of plans and the line of beach protection is stretching its feet in order to live and live well on the islands. So when it comes to setting up open village schemes, it is important to show that we can easily relax in planetary law and beach protection law for the benefit of the islands without necessarily fearing that they will start building giant skyscrapers on the edge of the water. We need to create open-air town schemes designed to deal with some of the problems repeatedly encountered by the locals in the villages and on the islands. I have received tons of e-mails and enquiries over the years from people who in various ways express how the law of plan, status quo-peaces and beach protection have put a brake on the good life on the islands. I have received zero requests from citizens who feel that the law is a barrier to their having a community of living and working or that they can grow common vegetables. So in the Danish People's Party we cannot see a free village scheme without also including beach protection law and planning law, which is specifically stated in the proposal here must not be included. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can now go further. Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191319	Thank you. As quite recently, when we dealt with the corresponding or similar proposals of the Left, we also support the intention of this proposal, because it is probably only down to finer French cooking or in detail that this differs from the proposals of the Left. We will not be voting in favour of it, but I will cut it all down here as the last proposal on the agenda by saying that we really want to contribute to a joint report. We would also really, really like to be invited to a talk about how to lift the countryside. The Radical Left would very much like to be active on that front, like everyone else in this Chamber. So the attitude here is that we are not going to go with this time, but we would really like to be involved in making a report and further discussions in the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191414	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is from the Conservatives. Mrs. Stine Pilt Olsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191443	Thank you for the floor. It's incredibly big to be here for the first time, so thank you for the warm reception I've been given. Unfortunately, in Denmark, we see that globalisation and urbanisation have left a negative impression in rural areas. Smaller societies can be difficult to develop and new measures may be needed. Who knows best what's needed? They must be the people who live there, the municipalities and the communities. That's why it's a really good idea to give these communities more freedom. This will provide better opportunities for non-profit-making projects that can benefit the areas. In addition, we look forward to seeing the results of the experiment when they are presented. If it ends, as we believe, a permanent arrangement could be considered. At the same time, this motion for a resolution speaks for a Conservative cause. Many parts of public Denmark are subject to unhealthy control, where everything has to be done according to a formula that does not necessarily ensure quality. This bureaucracy is a barrier for companies that want to grow, for welfare workers who want to provide the best service, and of course also for rural and small towns that want to create development for the benefit of the local environment. We have had good experiences in the past with open villages, and we believe and hope we can get that back. This is a welcome opportunity to look at developments in all parts of Denmark. By removing some bureaucracy, it helps to give the municipalities more freedom. That is why the Conservative People's Party welcomes this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191619	Thank you for that, and thank you for the virginity. It was so clear that it did not give rise to brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191651	Denmark is a lovely country. That simply cannot be said enough. When you drive to the countryside, out of the big cities' noise and out to the silence and out to the bird whistle, you are in the lovely Danish villages. I often think when I drive through and past the villages: here I want to live one day. There are stubborn houses, cozy little roads, you know the neighbors even well. There is the local use where you get a talk over the cooling disc, where the pace is a little slower, and where eggs are something you buy at the local farm in all possible shapes and colors, and most often with a small bonus in the form of both feathers and blobs on them. I often get the idea that one day, when my boys are big and moved from home, I have to have a small farm in the countryside, a place where there is high to the sky, with quiet and free-range chickens, where the food is made from the bottom of home-grown raw materials, and where you meet in front of the fireplace in the evening without screen. I may sound like a hopeless romantic, and I probably am. But the Danish villages are something very, very special, and we must be careful about them, and we must safeguard them. This reminds me of everything we need to be careful and safe for future generations. In Fredensborg, where I come from, the local bookstore became a cooperative bookstore after a strong work of local fire souls. It was precisely a solution to a challenge facing many smaller cities. It was a well-run store, but the generation shift was difficult. It solved the local fiery souls fantastic. In New Citizens we want decentralisation, growth and prosperity in all regions of lovely Denmark. The proposal to decentralise all the way to the villages seems reasonable to us and we think it makes even more sense if we can jointly draw up a report so that we can actually achieve the objective of freeing the villages. I wonder if you are better at getting the good ideas to secure the future of the village than the politicians in here at Christiansborg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. After a little cleaning, it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525191938	Thank you. Free villages are a good thing. In the Free Greens, we want to give citizens greater freedom as long as they do not harm others, the environment, the climate or nature. Freedom strengthens creativity and innovation, and so does it in the villages. It can increase the desire to move to the villages, and it can give a much greater cohesion, a better community, which also allows and demands care and provides joy for life. This SF proposal is good because it frees citizens from a great deal of restrictions that we have in our legislation. It could be the law of plans that had to be challenged, however, not if it destroys nature, there are many examples that can be imagined that it could be more attractive to live in a village. It could be communal eating, perhaps in a nature playground, communities of living, building new houses, Tiny houses, the small houses, dispensing from requirements to insulation, being allowed to make off grid, so that you are independent of the other infrastructure, several families who could be allowed to live in the farmhouses, which are located just outside the cities, and which cannot just now be allowed to do so. It could be much easier to make big city parties, big events, without having to apply for up to 100 permits to do so. It could be a nursing home where there are also students, where there are youth homes, and perhaps play rooms in the nursing homes. There are oceans of opportunities, and in the Free Greens we are pleased that this proposal also envisages a financial contribution from the state. Because it may take something to get started, but it is also good that funds can be sought. The municipalities must also be obliged to give the villages that freedom, so I think that there is work to be done to find out what kind of framework the municipalities should actually provide. Something that I have also been thinking about is whether to put in some process support. After all, we have a good project called collective impact, which is used in a multifunctional land distribution, where you actually contribute with some process management and have a toolbox you can use, so you help the city's citizens to create the very best solutions. This was one of the options, and I think that there are a lot of opportunities in this which we in the Greens would like to support. So we support the proposal and we would also like to be included in relation to a report if that is where it ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525192227	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525192251	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry we had to go through another round of free villages. I didn't mean to. After all, the proposal has lived a slightly tumultuous life. First I made a proposal, then I pulled it out and I decorated it, and then I put it back, and I didn't think it was going to be discussed. Then I discovered here last week that it was in fact planned this week, and then it was too late to withdraw it and have it dealt with by committee, but I also understand that a report cannot be drawn up if the proposal has not been dealt with. So we kind of had to do this trip, and I'm sorry, but I've, what can you say, tried to limit the time we spend on it by not asking questions. For the Left and the SF have made similar proposals, and I think it is an excellent proposal that we should sort of push it together and get some joint report on it. For us, it is certainly important for the villages to have freer hands experimenting with measures that can contribute to an increased settlement and community, just like the free municipalities that the government has appointed, and, of course, with due respect for nature and the environment, as our proposal also says, and that is because we would really like to see what creative solutions can come up with different challenges you face in the villages. After all, in our proposals, we are primarily committed to strengthening development and innovation and to contributing to a more coherent development across Denmark by strengthening the local community. Last time I mentioned that one of the things you might be able to do was to create green villages-energy communities with own wind turbines and heat supplies or attract new types of residents through experimental communities. I've actually been approached by some people who would like to make a small town with tiny houses and downsize, but they can't be allowed because of this insulation requirement. And if you succeed in getting such new types of residents, it may also be that you rust the local school better so that it does not have to close or that you ensure that shopping opportunities continue to exist. So it was an attempt like setting this innovation in rural areas. However, I think it is a positive debate that we have had and I am sure that we can get something good out of a committee work on this where we merge the two proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525192535	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210525192547	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 26 May 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
