ParlaMint-DK_20210506100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100010	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100027	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. I would ask you to check that it is your name that is in the voting panel, and when you are aware of that, I will start the vote. There are three proposals for adoption. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 118 of Rasmus Stoklund (S), Mads Birded (V), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. in favour of 62 (S, V, KF and LA), against 32 (DF, SF, RV, EL, NB, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 118 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 117 by Rosa Lund (EL), Carl Valentin (SF), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Jens Rohde (KD), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and proposals for adoption no. V 119 of Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100150	No amendments have been tabled. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100248	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 55 (S, SF, RV, EL ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against voting 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100313	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100327	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100345	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100359	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), against 10 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100426	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100448	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100456	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506100505	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 87 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (EL, ALT and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister. I shall now postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 10.20, so we have the opportunity to defuse the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102005	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open, and first it is Mr. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102035	Thank you very much. When you buy refrigerators, telephones or lighting, it is absolutely essential that you as a consumer can be trusted that the products that can be purchased in Denmark comply with current EU requirements, such as: energy labelling and eco-design. Products which do not meet these requirements must not be on the market. It is difficult to ensure when trading online and directly from countries outside the EU that do not impose requirements on products. The risk is therefore that consumers are misled because, for example, products are not sufficiently energy efficient or do not meet the requirements of the ecodesign legislation for energy-related products. Requirements are therefore necessary to ensure enforcement and compliance with the applicable requirements. It is whether the products are marketed offline or online and whether they are manufactured in Denmark, the EU or outside the EU. With the legislative proposal we are discussing today, we are updating the Product Energy Labelling Act, ECO design legislation and radio equipment law in two areas in particular: firstly, the control and sanction provisions are strengthened; and secondly, a number of obligations are laid down for operators, including for new types of operators. More specifically, I am aware that the Danish Security Authority is given the opportunity to do so-called mystery shopping, where samples are taken for control under hidden identity. In particular cases, the Danish Security Agency will also be given the opportunity to block websites selling illegal products. Both will be able to strengthen control over Internet commerce. Finally, there are obligations relating, inter alia, to: to cooperate with the Security Authority to block websites selling illegal products, also for new kinds of traders. For example, new kinds of entrepreneurs are information society services such as these websites or platforms from which products are sold. In this way, the legislative proposal makes it easier to ensure that products that consumers can buy in Denmark comply with EU requirements. In those words, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill as put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102239	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So after a while, it's Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102301	Thank you for that and thank the government for bringing forward this bill, which is an implementation of the EU Market Surveillance Regulation for three product groups: energy-related products, radio equipment and electronic communications networks and services. In line with both globalisation and digitalisation, we have seen an increase in e-commerce. It has particularly exploded under the corona as a result of shutdown. More and more Danish citizens choose to buy their goods online. It is also the general experience of the 26 other Member States of the European Union. The increase in cross-border trade has led to some challenges with imports of products from third countries. Many of these products do not comply with national or harmonised EU rules. This proposal will address this issue. The amendments to the Market Monitoring Regulation aim to provide better opportunities for Member States to deal with consumers' purchases of products from third countries that do not comply with product legislation. It is important that we support EU cooperation and coordinate across Member States so that market surveillance is uniform. That is why the Left is in favour of proposals that can help to benefit the single market in the European Union. The Left supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102424	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102445	Thank you, President. There are many good reasons, when you navigate around as a consumer, for looking to act energy-friendly. That is why I also believe that many, whatever you need to have a new heat pump, a new refrigerator or other technical installations, are watching how many pluses are after the A, or whether you are down to B or C, etc., in terms of acting energetically. And that makes good sense both for the green switch, but also for the wallet, because the more A-pluses there are, the cheaper it is to use the product in question. Then, of course, there is the challenge if it turns out that the product cannot meet the claim made by the seller. This is a challenge, because then both the consumer and the climate will be cheated. That is why it is important that we have stricter rules that allow us as consumers to count on the claim made by the seller. Whether it is about energy-friendly products or about other matters regulated by the Marketing Act, it is important that we as consumers know what we are buying and can rely on it. And when this bill is a result of some EU implementation, but that is to say, even a blind hen can find a grain that makes a better arrangement, where sellers who deliberately speculate about charging their products improperly to get consumers to buy them can be punished more quickly and more consistently, it is basically a step in the right direction. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party, after careful scrutiny, have decided that we would support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102631	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102647	This bill is, of course, an implementation of EU policy, and the previous rapporteurs have explained the content very well. The legislative proposal is, after all, about improving the protection of citizens who buy products that may be dangerous, harmful to health or pose an environmental risk. First of all, it is essential that the authorities improve their control by means of this bill. Overall, it is only positive when we make sure that it is easier for consumers to rely on the products that are traded within the EU, and therefore the SF can back up the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102754	We can also support the bill radically. Of course, products must meet the EU's requirements. Those requirements are not for fun; they are either sustainability requirements or energy requirements. If you import and sell products that do not meet these requirements in different ways, then we must prevent them. Here we provide an increased opportunity for both control of web shopping, blocking of websites and other things to the authorities, so that you can make sure that the rules are complied with. We warmly support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102822	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506102841	Thank you. I don't want to thank you for the bill. It's one of these bills that you might be a little in doubt about where really belongs, and then we called the Ministry to clarify it. But then it was actually difficult to get a clear answer as to what rapporteurship it belonged to. In an internal monkey's throw, it was me that ended up with as energy rapporteur, although this is probably something that a consumer rapporteur should actually take care of, but we don't have one of those, so it ended up with me, and now I'm standing here. If I look at it in terms of energy, then I look in the consultation note to see if there could be some grain of something you could use. There is then a one-page consultation note for these 243 pages of legislative proposals, and there is, in fact, nothing concrete. because nothing specific has been submitted. I am surprised, of course, when it relates in this way to appliances which use energy. If you go into the bill on page 30 to look, as if there could be any climate and environmental consequences of the bill, then there might be, when it's electricity-consuming appliances, it's really about the fact that this bill doesn't mean anything plus in that account, because it's already been achieved through regulations in the past. I would really like to look at the committee's reading to see if we could come up with a change to this bill, so that it actually had a positive climate and environmental effect when it concerns electricity-consuming appliances. I think it is a little strange that no effect can be achieved. Then I also thought it might be that it has some harmful effect on the business world, and it is then estimated that there will be only 4 million. kr. in addition to the cost of adopting such a draft law here on 243 pages. So we would like to help the Enhedslisten to try to ask: Can we not achieve any benefits environmentally by such a large and comprehensive bill? So my approach to that is that I do not promise the Minister in advance that we will vote in favour of it, but we would very much like to have bored out if we could not come to the conclusion that it could actually lead to an environmental advantage to adopt a legislative proposal on so many sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103050	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. That is why we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103109	Thank you. Good morning, and thank you for the floor. I will be brief, because with L 224 we will be implementing the EU regulation on market surveillance. We think this is important. It is about being able to control new products, new industries and online trade in products from outside the EU, and we do not have so few of them, including here in Denmark. We, as consumers, are deeply dependent on us being able to rely on the products that we can buy. The market will not work if there is no trust between producers and consumers. It is therefore also natural that, with increasing e-commerce and easier access to products from third countries, we should update the common rules of the game. We do not want harmful products on the market and it is important to maintain the high level of consumer protection that we have in Denmark. Fortunately, we have this very well under control here in the country, and the implementation of the regulation does not therefore give rise to much thought either. This can also be seen in the absence of comments from the hearing. And we Conservatives will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103219	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103235	Thank you. And thank you for the floor. It is a rather comprehensive legislative preparatory work that lies behind L 224, but the conclusion, after reading through the 243 pages of the legislative text, must be that L 224 is a technical implementation of EU directives and the EU regulation which lays down existing requirements. The relevant products and obligations of the economic operators in this respect, as well as the rules on verification of compliance with the requirements and obligations, reflect the changes in the market surveillance regulation. The draft law thus reproduces the obligations of operators under the Market Monitoring Regulation. The draft law has been in consultation and the consultations have not left any comments from the interested parties. So, in this respect, new citizens have no doubts about L 224, and New Citizens therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103329	Thank you. No brief remarks. Then it's the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103347	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their many good comments. Of course, I regret to the Enhedslisten that EU regulations and directives do not always take account of the distribution of rapporteurship in the Enhedslisten, but we must see if we do not manage anyway. I think that the rapporteur did a very good job of speaking time and made some good comments, so I suppose it is not going to work. After all, the draft law must make it easier to ensure that products that we can buy in Denmark meet a number of quite reasonable EU requirements, by the way. This is among other things. energy labelling and eco-design requirements, which, of course, help to promote an energy-efficient transition across the EU. The background is that with increased e-commerce, new challenges arise in checking that the requirements are actually met. A challenge is also that distribution chains have become much more complex at the same time, making it more difficult to take the right ones to account for possible infringements of product requirements, especially when they are traded directly from outside the EU, where the same requirements are not imposed on products. The bill specifically amends the Product Energy Labelling Act, the Ecodesign Act and the Radio Equipment Act, and has a background in EU legislation to ensure that only products that meet requirements are actually available on the market. Specifically, for these three laws, this means that the rules on controls and sanctions will be strengthened, among other things. in particular cases, the Security Authority will be able to block websites selling illegal products. In addition, the obligations laid down in the laws will also apply to new types of economic operators. These are operators in the European Union who store and re-sell goods from outside Europe, and this applies to traders who provide access to websites where products are sold that do not meet EU product requirements. Traders themselves are responsible for ensuring that their products comply with the rules, but of course it is clear that the authorities must have an opportunity to check and check and sanction. In addition, with the proposal, a few minor updates are made to the Telecommunications Act. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103622	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. The minister doesn't have to blow off 'cause he's coming back up here. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103643	The debate is open. The Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506103702	Thank you for that and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for the proposal. The proposal is about demanding a 3% energy renovation rate in municipal and regional buildings, as well as requirements for state buildings. I fully agree with the Conservatives that there is great potential for energy renovations in municipal and regional buildings. Seven out of ten municipal buildings have an energy label at the low end of the scale. That, of course, is not good enough. In addition to the obvious socio-economic gains, energy renovation of municipal and regional buildings will also bring benefits from an improved indoor climate, for example. schools and nursing homes. The government has given the energy efficiency improvement effort a significant boost, and in March I was able to announce that Denmark is now over-fulfiling the energy saving commitment to the EU with a total of 127 per cent. We do this because the government, together with a broad circle of parliamentary parties, has adopted a number of important climate agreements by 2020. Several of these agreements also contribute to energy efficiency targets. Although there has been considerable progress, we are not in the end, and that is why I have been looking forward to these discussions today. I think there are some very good tactics in the proposal put forward by the Conservative People's Party and I agree with the ambition. Nevertheless, the government cannot support the proposal for four reasons. Firstly, the Danish Energy Agency has calculated a rough estimate of the investment needs of the municipalities and regions as a result of the proposal. The estimate is with all its uncertainties of 15 billion. kr. Until 2030. To put it mildly, it is not small change that we are asking taxpayers to finance with this proposal, if necessary, whether it be through the municipal tax or through the state. Secondly, the government currently has. a quite good dialogue on climate action with both municipalities and Danske Regions. Both regions and municipalities are ambitious on behalf of the climate, and the government has a very constructive dialogue with both parties. This dialogue will continue with the government. It is the wish of both sides that an agreement should support municipalities and regions' climate action even more than it is today. Examples of the initiatives in the dialogue are: mapping the oil and gas boiler of municipal and regional buildings from the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry, etc. 2020• with a view to supporting voluntary phasing out; voluntary agreements to encourage greater EE efforts in municipal and regional buildings for the benefit of both the socioeconomic, health and learning and working environment; and finally, data and digitalisation as well as intelligent management of building operations can support energy savings, which is also the hope of the Building Hub project, which will collect and display energy, building and weather data. Thirdly, the government has already allocated large sums of money to energy efficiency improvements, in fact also specifically to municipalities and regions. Among these are: a grant pool of 150 million. kr. Annually in 2021 and 2022 and from last year's Finance Act 5 million. kr. annually from 2023 targeted energy renovations in municipal and regional buildings; more than 2.5 billion. kr. via the building pool in the period from 2020-2026; 3.9 billion kr. through the business pool; 30 billion; kr. in 2020 for green renovations of general housing. Fourthly, the European Commission is currently preparing the revision of relevant directives in line with the new climate target of 55%. in the EU. Among other things, consideration is being given to the introduction of a renovation requirement for all public buildings. The government wants the EU to increase its climate ambitions by 2030. In concrete terms, the government will, among other things: work to increase the EU energy efficiency target from at least 32.5%. 40 per cent. in 2030. However, it is a key priority for the government to realise that the EE objectives do not increase the achievement of Denmark's climate targets, but we need to wait until the European framework is clarified. I think it makes enormous sense to look at energy renovation in municipal and regional buildings. I am pleased that we are talking about energy efficiency improvements today, but at the same time I hope that we can discuss this in the wider context that I have tried to explain here today. Against this background, I appeal to reject the motion for a resolution as it stands. The government supports high climate targets, but targets need to be met in a cost-effective way, and this suggests that demands for energy renovations, as they are proposed here, are not the best solution. In any case, I believe that we must have reasonable demands on such a proposal that it also indicates how the proposers will finance the 15 billion. kr., which after all is quite a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104231	There is a brief comment from Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104234	Thank you, Minister, and thank you for supporting this intention. Of course, one of the crackers is the economy, as always, and it is also good that the government says that more pools have been set aside. But was that not something that could be addressed in an economic agreement here from next year and then look at how we can increase energy efficiency? As several analyses also show, you save about 30-40 per cent. Afterwards, once you have the energy refurbished. And since the state only stands for 13%. of the building stock, but municipalities and regions account for 87 per cent. and it is in such a bad condition that we are losing school days and there are also many health injuries, it doesn't also matter that we have to look at both achieving goals in relation to CO2 Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104327	In other words, as I said, I think it is worth emphasising that when we took over the responsibility and got the government power, we were in a somewhat different situation for Denmark about energy efficiency improvement and, unfortunately, under severe criticism from the European Union we did not even meet the targets. Now we deliver 127 per cent. So we have come a long way in a short time. And we are not against, we are in fact in favour of doing even more out there in municipalities and regions, but we find it difficult to support a proposal of 15 billion. kr. where not a single source of funding has been identified.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104401	Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104403	Now the Minister mentioned the EU and that it will not support the Commission's proposal to extend this energy efficiency improvement requirement in the EU as well. But does the Minister not also consider this to be a huge export option? The industry is crying out: please make some demands. We have such strong Danish companies that are working in, for example. energy efficiency, which can create a lot of jobs and export earnings. Can't that be considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104437	Yes, indeed. I think maybe I didn't make myself clear. I mean, we do not just support a higher requirement, but we are actively working for a higher requirement... 32.5 is the goal today, if I don't remember wrong. We are working to increase it to 40, so here too we are considerably increasing the Danish objective internationally, in relation to how it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104504	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104507	First of all, I would like to say that energy efficiency improvements and saving energy are an important matter for the SF, as the Minister knows. And in fact I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister is also concerned about the matter, because I have a clear experience of that. I believe that what can frustrate me a little too in what the Minister is presenting is that it costs money when building buildings need to be renovated, when building a better climate screen, or when replacing the oil boiler with the heat pump, because if we look at the socio-economic situation, then Ea Energy Analyses' analyses show that it can actually contribute to a cheaper path towards our climate targets. And what is a little frustrating when we just look at a box of money in isolation and say that it costs something over here is that we forget that we really have to bear all the costs of society in mind when we look at whether an initiative makes sense. That is why I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is also concerned about this very thing about the economy and those, you might say, broad gains that are actually through energy efficiency measures, and will make an effort in the government to look at this transformation broadly and not just in boxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104612	Yes, indeed. When this government stands for a much more progressive and ambitious approach to energy efficiency than the previous government, but indeed also, if I am to be honest than previous socialist governments, it is because we see beyond what it only just contributes to achieving the usual CO2 because it is clear that some people will argue that as energy turns green, energy efficiency is not so important. I am sure Mrs Signe Munk has also heard that argument many times. I do not subscribe to that argument, we do not subscribe to it in the government, because there are so many other good reasons for investing in energy efficiency. One reason is that we need the green electricity elsewhere. Another is that the socio-economically clear is the most sensible. Finally, there are derived positive effects in relation to better indoor climates etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104700	Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104702	Not everyone knows, but I have a nasty past in Viborg City Council, and I know how it goes when it comes to budgeting. It is often the case that priority is given to building a new school or some rehearsal rooms for young people before all this energy renovations comes up. And that is why we believe in the SF that the municipalities should be given an extra incentive to refurbished energy and put it first on the budget agenda locally. Therefore, I would like to know whether the government could imagine that all energy renovations should be excluded from the plant ceiling at a time when it will provide an incentive for it to be put first in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104737	I knew the questioner had a history in Viborg City Council. I didn't know it was creepy, but I know that now. I do not think this is the place to comment on what should be negotiated with the municipalities later this year. But, of course, I share the concern that proper investments are not necessarily being made in the places where they are to be made. That is also why we have decided to put quite a lot of funds together with the SF: a grant pool of 150 million. kr. Annually in 2021 and 2022, EUR 2,5 billion; kr. in the building pool, 3.9 billion; kr. in the commercial pool, EUR 30 billion; kr. for general housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104815	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104818	With all those confessions that have been, I would say: I have a clean past in Aarhus City Council. I think it is a good thing that the Minister points out that the Conservatives' proposal has not been financed. We see this on a regular basis from the Conservatives, that is to say, they come up with tax relief proposals, which have not been financed either. Now the Minister himself mentioned this, i.e. the fact that the indoor climate has some positive effects. And I think it is fine that the Minister has calculated that this resolution could cost 15 billion. kr., but it can, in fact, make some savings in terms of better working environment and better learning ability in schools, for example. I think we should see this a little wider, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether the solution to this is not to give the municipalities a freer framework and relax the plant ceiling, at least if it is the energy renovations that they want to implement. Can the Minister not see that this could be the quick solution, in other words to give the municipalities a freer framework to carry out the sensible renovations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506104922	The negotiations between the Minister for Finance and the municipalities and regions later this year are not going to make so much comment here today, but I would like to accommodate Søren Egge Rasmussen as far as to say that when I say that the 15 billion. kr. If there is a lot of money, there is not, in fact, an assessment of whether they would be badly spent, because I do not think they would. I also said that there is a great deal of uncertainty about that amount. In other words, when it is likely to be a pretty good investment, it is of course a question of there being many positive derived effects. But when I'm quite concerned about that figure anyway, it's because 15 billion. kr., no matter how sensible an investment it is, is really a lot of money. And I think it is almost a bit comical that we should stand here, a socialist minister and a red bloc, and say to a bourgeois party and their supporters: I'm sorry, it wasn't a very good idea to point out where you will find the 15 billion. kr., before you use them? So that was basically just what was in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105026	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105027	After all, some municipalities have money on the book and could make investments if the plant ceiling was not there. And then there are other municipalities that could look carefully at the accounts if it were the case that the plant ceiling was not an obstacle to the municipality, so that they could look into the fact that there would actually be some energy renovations that should be implemented. Now the Minister still has a certain position in the Social Democratic Party, so I would appeal to the Minister for Climate and Energy to try to influence the course of negotiations that will be held with KL. Then I'd like to hear the last of it...
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105101	If it's a quick last question, we'll deal with it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105103	There was an issue about public procurement where there were no negotiations. When are we going to have that debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105110	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105111	I shall refrain from commenting on the subject of Mr Beazley's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen was clean compared to the city council, but unfortunately I think he has found out that flattery and cheap port wine come quite a long way towards me, but not so far. I shall not comment further on the forthcoming negotiations, which the Minister of Finance will have to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105131	Mrs. Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105134	Thank you. I therefore share the Minister's view that EUR 15 billion. kr. is quite a lot of money, even if the ambition that can lie is important, and we need to look at the well-being of our public buildings and how we can do better. But I can have a concern, because we are quite concerned about the fact that there is good local government in Denmark, and when I look at the map of Denmark where it is, there are particularly major problems in this area and where you are behind and there is a backlog, it is especially the very citizen-heavy areas where there are many people. These are the major social democratic municipalities in particular, and I would like to know if the Minister has a dialogue with that country to try to nudge it somewhat more to push on this agenda because there is a huge backlog in these municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105231	Yes, as I also mentioned in my speech, we do have a very good dialogue with municipalities and regions on these themes widely, and it is of course clear that there is also a sharper focus in those places where it lags the most. Of course, this is not a focus that we necessarily put as a government alone, because it is at least as interested in the municipalities themselves. So, yes, the focus is on it. It is clear that we also hope, of course, that some of the pools which have already been made out there and which can be sought can help to remedy some of these problems. It is, in fact, quite large billions that we will get out in relation to energy investment and work here in the coming years. This is, of course, quite a good step forward, although it does not bring us to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105318	Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105319	Thank you and also thank you for mentioning the billions. There too, I hope the Minister will ensure that a note is sent which describes it more precisely. I also hope that, for the sake of good order, the Minister can confirm that the 30 billion. kr., which was charged for the general housing, is not something that concerns public buildings. It's the general housing stock. It is just so that there is no confusion about it, because, as I said, there is also a piece up to the 15 billion. kr. But again, I have to ask about what is at stake here about the dialogue with the large municipalities, where there are a great many citizens, where there are very many children and where this matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105357	I think I actually said quite clearly what the various pools were going to do, and we can easily send a note about it. Fortunately, the author's party is now included in most of the agreements and has also helped to translate the money into most of the agreements, so I actually believe that the questioner will be able to see some fingerprints from his party in them. And then, without having to shoot at the previous government, let us just say that we can all agree that it is a good thing that so much attention has been paid to energy efficiency. It was like the consideration that always lost in the negotiations in the past; it is certainly no longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105434	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are embarking on the round of rapporteurs and, first, Mrs Ida Auken, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105453	Thank you very much. Like Mrs Signe Munk, I also have a sinister past. However, it is not in a city council, but as energy rapporteur, and there we have been extremely frustrated that so little has been done in the area of energy efficiency improvement, not least in the time of a bourgeois government. So, of course, I welcome the fact that Conservatives have come all the way on the bus today on energy renovations, but must also say, like the Minister, that as long as no sensible funding is provided, 15 billion is available. kr. quite a lot, because at the moment we make a firm demand on the municipalities, they can come and ask for what is called dut, i.e. that they should have money from the state. But that is not to say that the task is not entirely central. It is a very, very important theme that Conservatives are addressing today, namely that we need the regions and municipalities to also refurbished their buildings. It is precisely a good investment, also in the municipalities, to ensure that you do not use energy that you lose because it is poorly renovated. And making sure that the children have a better indoor climate is one of the reasons why it makes really, really sense to renovate energy. Many places, including: In the City of Copenhagen, you are just focused on this synergy effect, where you make both at once and create an educational learning room. I've been out visiting several of these projects where I can see what comes out of making combined energy renovation and better indoor climates. In addition, I would like to say that I thank the rapporteurs for standing here and doing a little shameless advertising for the energy efficiency efforts we are actually doing in Denmark. As it stands now, we will over-fulfil the EU's demand for energy efficiency improvements by 122%, as the Minister also said, and indeed precisely because we, also as a broad majority in the Folketing, have had this focus on energy efficiency improvements in all our agreements, we have come a long way with the task. Fortunately, there is also a good dialogue with municipalities and regions in relation to their having to lift their share of the agreement. I am also very pleased that we in Denmark are now pushing in the EU to lift the energy efficiency requirement from 321⁄2%. 40 per cent. in 2030. It is important what role Denmark plays, including in the European Community. Nevertheless, we do not support an annual requirement for the municipalities. One might ask how much retail management we actually have to do by the municipalities. We all want to debureaucratize and give freedom, but then we stand in here again and again and make demands because it sounds really good. If we can actually get the municipalities to do this here and if all the parties that agree that this is an important agenda also go to their elected representatives in municipalities and regions and say that this is important, then we can also help to push for this forward. So thank you for the discussion today, for the Conservative People's Party, but we do not support the resolution in the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105759	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105802	Thank you for your support... immediately... for some intentions. What I cannot help but hear from the Social Democratic Party is such a rather rigid cash-in-the-box thinking about these things. The municipalities can borrow quite cheaply. I myself have also been on a municipal council and an environmental and technical committee. We can all talk about our past. It's probably not that interesting, we'd rather talk about the future. We can also scold the previous government; I also believe that energy efficiency lagged behind in the previous S-government. But the municipalities can borrow cheaply, and in fact there are also private players who are out there and who want to help. And what is also a challenge in the municipalities is that they are not actually even aware of the value of their huge building stock. They are sitting on huge values, so there are actually opportunities to finance. The second question I would like to ask the rapporteur is as far as the European Union is concerned. I am now also in the European Committee and there was a meeting on 9 April when this was discussed here. The government does not support a requirement to energy efficiencyise public buildings in the EU. Has the government changed its attitude? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105908	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105909	Thank you very much for the questions. First of all, I am surprised that Conservatives are now beginning to call it cash thinking that they want to find the funds before using them. Well, that's 15 billion. kr. What has become of the financial responsibility of the Conservatives when you just want to print a bill? And then the rapporteur points out that there are, in fact, very good arguments for the municipalities to do so here today. They can borrow cheaply, there is funding, and the players are ready. So I think that it should be given priority in the municipalities and not put it in the ranks of the budgets, as you do. But if we believe in municipal autonomy, we must also be able to do some of this by making agreements with them and by making that money available. We have actually put in 150 million. kr. available in both 2022 and 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506105957	Katarina Ammitzbøll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110001	Now I have also spoken to a number of municipalities, and we are totally in favour of municipal autonomy. But what I also hear out there is, in fact, that they want demands to be made. It actually helps in a priority. Because you always have a lot of citizens' interests, and it is not always the people who think it is great to spend money on energy efficiency. It is not very visible and there are many other prestige projects that are more visible. But with this, we are now required to have energy efficiency, so that we have the good school environment and indoor climate. There are studies which show that it costs around 30,000 school days because of the indoor climate, and that goes beyond professionalism, and there are plenty of arguments, but, as Heidi Bank also said, that has not happened. So this is a way to say that we can lift the bar.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110040	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110045	I understand that the municipalities would like to see demands made, because we will then have to send all the money directly. But we do have a system today in which we can actually hold a debate where we can have a significantly cheaper solution, where it is not the state that has to find 15 billion. kr. to the municipalities, but you can make some agreements that the municipalities are doing this. So I do not really think that the barriers are there; on the contrary, I do think that with everything the rapporteur says and speaks for, the municipalities and regions do not have many excuses for not getting started on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110109	Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110121	But does Mrs Ida Auken recognise that in some municipalities there is just the barrier called the construction ceiling? So, in all their diversity, the municipalities are 98 different realities, but has Mrs Ida Auken also heard that there are actually some municipalities that have money on the coffin floor, which do not ask Christiansborg for more money, but who ask for the opportunity to set those energy renovations in motion, while at the same time building more day care facilities while increasing the number of children while making better nursing homes? So does the government and Mrs Ida Auken recognise that the construction ceiling is a barrier in some places?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110146	It is true that there are municipalities that have money on the coffin floor and that would like to spend some of that money and that the plant ceiling is a challenge in this context. However, as the Minister also said, it is a very, very big exercise if you start removing the plant ceiling. So we will leave that to the finance minister in the negotiations with the municipalities, and if it is a major demand from the municipalities, then you have to take the debate with the minister, and then you have to see how far you can go. However, as the energy rapporteur, I cannot stand and make promises about this, even temporary, for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110212	Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110221	But once again, I think we need to say out loud that this box thinking, sometimes in the government, especially in the area of energy renovation, is frustrating. I have also asked the Minister for Education about the potential for energy renovation of the public schools, which also says that it is over with the Minister for Finance, and then the ball goes back again. So I just want to hear: could it not be imagined that the Social Democrats themselves gave priority to the negotiations on the economy of the municipalities and regions and pressed for energy renovations? I guess you're not just waiting for the demands that come from out there locally, but I guess you have a direction in those negotiations as a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110251	I think the Social Democratic Party has put a great deal of pressure on it. In other words, the Minister mentioned the major measures that have been taken and 150 million have been set aside. kr. of every year, these negotiations are conducted in a dialogue with the municipalities and regions, and pressure is being put on in the EU to raise the ceiling from 32.5%. At 40%, 2 billion have been set aside. kr. to replace oil pine and natural gas pine with heat pumps. So I do not think it is possible to say that the government here is not going to take the lead, and one might well take the liberty of being a little naughty and saying that what the SF calls cash thinking is referred to in the Social Democracy as financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110323	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That's why we move on to the Left to Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110347	Thank you and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this debate in the Folketing. In the Left, we believe that sustainable construction and energy renovation are an important part of the climate agenda. We are in favour of a green conversion in the construction sector so that the building sector can build greener buildings and renovations can take place. That is why, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, we concluded a national strategy for sustainable construction, in which we have moved the building and our building stock in a more sustainable direction. We want healthy, energy-efficient buildings with good wellbeing for children and adults and with a good indoor climate for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of the climate. The proposal we are debating today will impose a binding target for energy renovations in all public buildings of 3%. a year. The idea that municipalities and regions are taking the lead is quite reasonable in itself, because there is a lot of building to do. But the Left believes in municipal autonomy, our municipalities, the autonomy of the local level. The municipalities are closest to the citizens, and in short, the Left places emphasis on the possibilities for the municipalities themselves to prioritize, plan and organise the renovation efforts as well, and the municipalities are in progress. Some are further ahead than others in relation to renovation, some have a clear backlog. The proposal therefore raises a number of questions, including: in relation to the plant ceiling. What do the proposers think about the funding, which has also been deepened by the Minister? But we also agree with the proposers that the role of Danish industry in developing more energy-efficient materials and solutions is central to creating growth and jobs. With the agreement on sustainable construction, we were given the framework to promote innovation and new opportunities for Danish construction. So, again, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting it forward, which was the comments they have made, and we look forward to a thorough and sound examination of the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110556	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. After a little cleaning, it's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110618	Thank you. This is a proposal that is completely in the spirit of time. We need to develop and promote energy savings, and we in the Danish People's Party are also very much involved in this. There are, however, a number of factors that we believe should be assessed in this context. Some have already been mentioned. Is it right in this way to limit municipal autonomy? There are a lot of municipalities that are themselves very well at work and have very many plans for the renovation and development of their buildings. But it is also true that there are problems in many municipal buildings. We have the plant ceiling, which has been mentioned a few times, and which is a limitation for some municipalities that have plenty of money in the box, but cannot spend it doing it here, while there are a number of other municipalities that do not have the economy to come close to the plant ceiling that they might actually be entitled to spend, because they do not have the money to do it. It is also a problem that we in the Danish People's Party tried to address when there were equalisation negotiations in relation to the municipal compensation. But yes, unfortunately it was not solved, and that is why we are, of course, still facing this problem, and that is one angle that you have to tackle if you're going to solve this. That is why we are also saying that, if we are to do this, we need resources to be kept up, at least to the less well-off municipalities, and then to those I mentioned during the debate on the construction ceiling. I also note that, in this proposal, Conservatives do not state what the price is. We hear from the Minister that it is probably 15 billion. kr. After all, that is an amount. And there is no indication of where to find the means. At the same time, there are also a number of other issues that we need to look at. The indoor climate has been mentioned a few times, as if you also get a good indoor climate if you are refurbishing energy. That is not necessarily true at all. A lot of places today we have a bad indoor climate because we have saved energy so much that we cannot maintain the indoor climate. In fact, it also costs energy, at least if you do not do it in the right way. That is why we think it is really important that when we discuss energy renovation, we also take the discussion on what buildings should be able to do and what an indoor climate we would like to have. There is also one theme that has been discussed in recent years: fire safety in nursing homes that is not in order. It is also something that we must bring and resolve if we are to go out and do something about the buildings. So there is a much wider need to look at building renovation than just what lies in an energy renovation rate of 3%. That is why I and the Danish People's Party very much hope that in the discussions in committee we can see whether we can make a formulation and a report containing the broader effort that is certainly needed so that we can ensure that energy savings go hand in hand with, among other things. good indoor climate and security in the buildings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110908	There is a brief comment on Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506110915	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech. I agree that there are many challenges around here. It is also important that we, for example, should: ensure the nursing homes that the buildings are in order for our elderly. With regard to how this is financed, there are several options: there are also ESCO suppliers and the private ones standing out there. It can be said that if things were going so well and the municipalities and regions have so many opportunities to renovate themselves, then it is a question of why it has not happened. This is only 3%. provides a saving on operating costs in the longer term. What we mean by box thinking is that we must both think about the longer track, about what an investment is giving back. That is what I accused the Socialists and not the rapporteur for the • and the other is that there are both private suppliers and ESCO suppliers. There are funds we can get, also to help the municipalities, plus that there are also many municipalities that have funds but do not get it priority because of other perhaps more prestigious areas. So that was an answer to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111015	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111020	I therefore agree that there are a great many perspectives, and there are also a great many opportunities in the municipalities. Many municipalities also have a plan and are doing something. So I'm thinking that some of what you might need to do was get an overview of what it actually looks like in the municipal area. And then, of course, we should be encouraged to use the opportunities that there are. This is one of the things we can all encourage our municipal councillors to focus on. I have both a past and a present in a municipal council, and I know that when the citizens press on, and there are a lot of requests for everything else, it is not certain that energy renovation is at the top of the agenda, although it can actually be almost self-financing in the long term. So if we can find ways to encourage it, then I am totally in favour of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111106	Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111109	Thank you for that statement of intent. I think the proposal made by the rapporteur that we should draw up a report and look at it can be a good idea, because it can be very difficult to prioritise something when you have a lot of tasks in a municipality and you also have an increase in older expenditure that needs to be taken care of. So it would be good to look at how we can at the same time help with how we can get some decent buildings when it's gone is over 80%. of our public building stock, which is in municipalities and regions, but which lags far behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111138	I would just like to say thank you for the comment, because I fully agree that we have a challenge to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111200	Thank you. Efforts to save energy are important. Unfortunately, there is sometimes such a little misconnection in both the climate and energy debate in these years, when we set up buckets of solar cells and wind turbines etc., and it is that just because green power comes into our energy system that just because district heating gets some heat pumps or brings up some hot water from the underground, we can just waste with the energy. I just want to say that we cannot do that for a number of reasons. If you look overall at the road to the 70-percent objective, it will be cheaper for society if we also have an energy efficiency improvement effort, while at the same time we have a green energy conversion. And that's why the two things have to go hand in hand. In addition, there have been good rapporteurs up before me and the potential for us to actually get to grips with our primary schools and institutions, because energy renovation and saving energy have the good side effect of improving the indoor climate, and this has therefore been studied at the bottom of the institutions. There's a huge advantage in energy renovation. Last but not least, you just have to remember that it isn't because it's going smoothly every time we have to put a windmill up in the backyard with people in this country. It's not like it's slippery every time we have to dig down cables. You can come with me to West Jutland, where I house, and talk to the citizens who have experienced some of these graves of large cables. It's just to say that if we can save more energy, we can also avoid some of these things. I could also give a long talk on electricity security. I think the point has slipped in. There are many advantages in saving energy. After all, in the SF, we have had the pleasure of participating in a great many debates in the energy and climate field, especially in 2020, and each time we sit down at the negotiating table, we have prioritised energy savings efforts. This has been both about the citizens' homes, but it has also been about general housing, which has also been mentioned by the rapporteur, and it has also been about the allocation of money to municipalities and the energy savings of regions. This also means, of course, that the budget law for 2021 and the money that came from the European Union have set aside two times 150 million. kr., also mentioned by several rapporteurs up here. I just want to say in all silence that they were not in the negotiating sketch until the SF entered the negotiating room. This also means that from being reproached into the EU for failing to comply with the energy saving obligation, Denmark is now overpriesting. What you always have to watch out for when you have the lead is to sit back and just bask and then think that the work is like done and that you will win the fight. That's not the attitude of the SF. We want to move forward, and I am, of course, also pleased that the government is actually giving priority to energy renovations, including in the context of the European Union. But more can be done in the long run. We are pleased in SF that Conservatives again raise the issue of energy renovations of 3%. in municipal and regional buildings. This is something the SF and the Conservatives have signed up in the past, and I am pleased with the alliance we have in this particular area, also because it is an important Danish job engine for the green transition that we in both parties are very concerned about. In the SF we have proposed several times funding sources. Look at the plant ceiling in different contexts, make more loan pools. What challenges the SF in this motion for a resolution is that it does not look at funding at all. That is why we have to say that, although we fully agree with the intention and that we fully agree that energy renovation requirements should be made for municipalities and regions, we also need to discuss how funding should be and how to solve it. However, I would like to say that it is a great step forward that the Government has actually come up with an estimate from the Danish Energy Agency, and I would really like to call for it to be further specified, because it does indeed mean that we can actually move forward in this discussion. But with those words, I would also like to say that if we can find a good report text that focuses more on this, I think it could be a very, very good way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111627	A brief comment on Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111632	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech from Signe Munk, and we fully support the fact that we must just walk on two legs. We must be both energy efficient and then we must have renewable energy. And analyses actually show that we need much higher energy efficiency if we are to achieve our objectives and the Paris Agreement. There is no point in focusing only on the green supply. As far as funding is concerned, and this is always the hard part, we think it is a good proposal and that we must appeal to the government to help us find a solution so that we can increase our energy efficiency. It is an enormous pity if we say that it is 15 billion. kr., and then there are other billions, and that means we don't move. And we can see that we don't. And then we get some speed set. That is certainly very worrying, so bad condition many of our schools are in, and also in relation to what our healthcare professionals work in everyday life, while firing for the sparrows. So I just want to thank you for your speech and thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111738	Well there is no doubt, and I would like to repeat this and also thank you for the good green alliance we have in relation to the energy savings effort. I hope that the more times we discuss this discussion and the more times we discuss it in negotiations, the longer we actually get in relation to the energy savings effort that can be made in Denmark. And that is why it is important that Conservatives once again address this issue and that we also have a dialogue with the rest of the Assembly about why this is important. Because there is no doubt that there must be 90 mandates, including for funding, so that this can be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111810	We thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111834	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by commending Conservatives and Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll for putting this theme on the agenda. Because it is quite right that there are currently no energy savings requirements in the municipal and regional areas. And we in the Radical Left will be very willing not only to discuss this, but also to act on it. Many good arguments have been mentioned here from the platform in relation to indoor climates in schools, etc. We just think there's a challenge to this resolution. In other words, it is not just a matter of funding with small amounts. This is a fairly large amount to which the Minister refers, so we do not think that this is something that can be dealt with in a motion for a resolution. So we support the intention and are, as such, willing to look at whether we can land a good report text together. But we cannot support the resolution as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111938	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That's why after cleaning, we can move on. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506111958	Thank you. It is very important to focus on energy savings and the potential around it. After all, the resolution here is about setting binding targets for energy savings and renovations in municipalities and regions, and when it is defined as binding targets that the proposers will set, it is of course essential to look at the funding, and there is therefore no funding in the resolution here. We are in the Enhedslisten very positive about continuing with this renovation effort, and what is the biggest barrier in the municipalities is the construction ceiling and the financial constraints that exist in the municipalities. In the past, the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply has said that this proposal concerns a renovation effort of 15 billion. kr. It may sound like a large number, but it is not really when you look at the fact that if you carry out those energy renovations, it has not only an energy effect, but also a positive effect in terms of a better working environment and a better indoor climate, and reports have been made that show how much you can get out of it, for example. in the Danish primary schools. It is, in fact, 1 year that students are currently wasting their learning capacity by having a poor indoor climate. So 15 billion. kr. is not a large amount, and when we have the situation that many municipalities can actually afford to carry out more renovations, but because of the plant ceiling it must not, we in the Enhedslist believe that the solution to this is to agree that the government will come up with a good deal with KL, where there are reductions on the plant ceiling when it is the case that the municipalities will make energy renovations. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here because there is not this funding. I do not know whether a report can be written on a proposal that has not been financed. This is going to be a little difficult, because there is no common practice for a majority in the Folketing to require the government to make a certain economic agreement with the municipalities. That would be a new thing, and we are actually in favour of renewal, so it would really be interesting if we could come up with a report that was binding on the government in their negotiations with KL. Actually, I think that's a little interesting. So it might be that we should be a little more positive about this proposal than I immediately thought. At least there is reason to discuss it. Sometimes there is such a habit in here at Christiansborg; it is quite common. For example, I have. I wondered why we should always be done with the whole thing until the day of the Constitution and so do quite a little in June, and that we should then start very late, because people have to harvest their potatoes before they come back in. You can't change that, but it could be that we could change this with what kind of political processes are up to a municipal agreement. I think that is actually exciting, so I look forward to that committee reading and to seeing how the Social Democrats will deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506112314	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so after a little cleaning it is Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506112334	Thank you. On Tuesday, we dealt with a proposal in the field of taxation, where we found that there was a difference in taxation of free telephones and the difference was whether it was an iPhone or an iPad. Well, there was taxation on an iPhone, but no taxation on an iPad. We wondered, and in the course of the debate, the SF rapporteur went up and said: 'Well, that is wonderful, now we have found a place where we can then tax, because now we are going to tax iPads too. We can see that now, too, is the danger, I must draw the attention of the Conservatives' rapporteur. That is the danger of making these proposals, because we can now see that today the Enhedslisten has also got good ideas about where we can change something, and that is how it is all of a sudden that we get good ideas when these proposals come up. I feel a little set aside for such a time Oda Conversely, those who have children and see Ramashang know who Oda Conversely is because I am much more in agreement with the government than I am with Conservatives on this issue. We do not believe that we should impose energy renovations of 3% on the municipalities in here from centralist sources. We think this is wrong. In fact, I share the view that there are many municipalities that take this seriously and make good use of it. So it is the wrong way to go in our view and we will not be supporting this. Neither do we, because it costs 15 billion. kr., which we believe can be used in a wide range of other areas. When the municipalities have funds out there, they must, of course, if they think they would rather use them to improve other areas, do so. So we can't impose that on them from in here. We believe that this is a mistake. But the idea of imposing on the government how to negotiate with the municipalities is an exciting idea, but should we not leave it there? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506112523	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506112541	Thank you for the floor. After all, we have put forward this proposal to extend the current demand for 3% per year. energy efficiency improvements in state buildings to include municipal and regional buildings, and this supports both the social, economic and green bottom line, and supports the ambition to make Denmark a green forerunner country. We would really like to do so, and we would also like to achieve our 70-percent target by 2030, which we have all adopted. In the Folketing we have always been wary of making great demands on the municipalities, and this also applies to my own party. We must respect municipal autonomy, and demands from the state can lead to financial counterclaims from the municipalities, as has also been mentioned. Climate action has so far been up to municipal self-government, but now it is time that we also dare to make demands, because neither the climate nor the economy can afford anything else. After all, we all agree that it is not good with the building stock out there, but how can we be confident that the way it is now can help us reach a target by 2030? We have nine years, and this is only 3%, we believe that it should be made more effective, and it has good gains which I want to elaborate on here. After all, the 3-percent requirement applies only to state buildings and they amount to 13%. of the public buildings, then up to 87 per cent. is owned by the regions and municipalities. This means that the municipalities are Denmark's largest building owner responsible for 30 million good square meters, and it is not just any square meters, but it is a few square meters that house our welfare in schools, day care centres and nursing homes. I myself was very surprised when I delved into it, how bad the municipal building stand is, and what conditions we offer our children in schools and day care institutions and the elderly in our nursing home. They can't pick another building. Approx. 70% of the municipal buildings have a poor energy label and seven out of ten buildings and there is such a need for us to change gears. In addition, calculations show that we can save just under 0.5 million. t CO2 If you look at the indoor climate, unfortunately it looks even worse. Nine out of ten classrooms have a bad indoor climate, causing up to 30,000 sick days a year. DTU has conducted a study which shows that it costs an entire year of learning lost during a 9-year education. They are in such a bad condition that our children become ill and find it difficult to concentrate in teaching. If we dwell a little on our health aspect, the poor building mass also leads to an increased risk of asthma and allergy. It is therefore of great value to lift the municipal building stock, which is of interest not only to the municipalities but also to the whole of society. After all, the healthy and green buildings also benefit our budget. An energy-efficient building is much cheaper for the municipalities' operating costs, and a typical renovation project can save the municipality approx. 30-40 per cent in operation of the individual building with a relatively short payback time... money that the municipality can spend on welfare rather than gray sparrows. As I have said, the Minister has pointed out here that the municipalities must then be compensated and that they are in the process and that it is difficult if demands are made on the municipalities, and I would like to make a few comments on that. We believe that the state and the municipalities are responsible for a shared responsibility, and the municipalities also have an interest in being helped to lift the framework of the green transition and on something as useless as energy efficiency. There are many other interests for citizens over building masses, and it is obvious to look ahead and think out of the box. I just heard the Minister say that down here on the floor before. And how can you think out of the box? That is exactly what we can look at in the private sector. Perhaps I have been too short in here to believe that everything can be solved with public funds, but there are many private players ready, there are good credit opportunities and there are plenty of opportunities to lift the bar while at the same time taking the lead with our green conversion on the buildings. Finally, with this motion for a resolution, I would also like to stress that this proposal is at the same time our support for the fact that it also applies at European level. It is contrary to the government, which, in its recent public energy efficiency positioning paper, does not envisage regional and municipal buildings being included in the objective, despite the fact that the European Commission is precisely pointing to imposing a requirement on the entire public building stock in order to achieve its new climate target of 55%. So here I don't see exactly how we're overimplementing. On the contrary, we do not dare to take the lead here, despite the fact that it also gives us huge export opportunities. We have a tradition of living well and warm because of our climate. We can see how it is here in May and therefore we also have many good companies that are ready with solutions for energy efficiency across Europe that create growth and jobs. So we do not think there is a particularly ambitious approach to the huge waste of energy that, unfortunately, remains both in Denmark and in the rest of the world. The green transition cannot continue to wait for the government's technological Georg Gearless solutions far out in the future when we have the solutions just outside the door, energy efficiency, which we can simply start on tomorrow. So let us start by being the good example of home ground with the public buildings for which we, as politicians, are responsible, and then we can show the way for the rest of Europe and beyond. We want to be a green pioneer, the public sector must be part of the green transition, which is why we are also pleased that we have the good cooperation with the SF in this. It can then be said that it is strange that we on the bourgeois side should make such a proposal. No, it is not, because we have already done so in the past with the SF, because energy efficiency is good and common sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506113219	Thank you. No one has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506113308	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506113323	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party proposes with one of the motions for resolutions that before the end of the current parliamentary assembly the government should have implemented laws that ensure that more criminal foreigners are expelled from Denmark. In this connection, the Danish People's Party writes that it is important to show foreigners living in Denmark that crime is not tolerated and that it should be easier to expel them. With the second motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that before the end of this calendar year, the government should also draw up a bill which means that children or adults who are members of a gang and who commit crime in one form or another must be expelled from Denmark together with their immediate family. The party also proposes that whole families should be deported if a member of the family is a member of a criminal clan with unsafe behaviour. In other words, I understand the Danish People's Party's proposal that rules should be laid down that the actions of individuals should lead to the expulsion of whole families, in other words collective expulsion. In support of the proposal, it states, among other things, that gang members and criminal clan families constitute such a massive problem for society that the proposal is the only reasonable way to tackle the problems. I should like to begin by stating once again that it is the government's position that criminal foreigners should of course be expelled. There should be no doubt about this as far as possible. The government fully agrees with the proposers that you should not be in Danish society if you abuse hospitality to commit crime. It's not up for discussion. But we are not in favour of expelling people because others are convicted of criminal offences, as the Danish People's Party wants with one of the motions for resolutions. Moreover, such a proposal to expel whole families because of the actions of individuals could not be implemented within the framework of our international obligations, and for these reasons the government cannot support the resolution on collective expulsion. However, in relation to the second motion for a resolution calling for more criminals to be deported, we are more in line with the authors of the motion for a resolution and, as I have said in other contexts, this is an area of priority for us. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have also supported the tightening of the expulsion rules in recent years, just as we in the government are constantly focusing on this area. As I know the authors are aware, there is also currently work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, where we are looking at whether there is room for further tightening of the expulsion rules. Having said that, I believe that we have already made a great deal of progress in the field of expulsion. We have quite a broad framework for expelling criminal foreigners. But I would like to admit that we are not entirely in the end, and that is precisely why we are also searching the area. This brings me to the conclusion that I do not entirely agree with what the authors of the motion for a resolution say that there is no delivery in the field of expulsion. I should therefore like to take this opportunity to put a few words on what is also contained in the motion for a resolution. First of all, it is essential to emphasise that a broad majority in the Folketing adopted a number of tightening of the expulsion rules in May 2018 and also supported by the Social Democratic Party. With the sharpening, there were among other things. In the light of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, we have laid down guidelines on when the Danish courts in general can expel criminal foreigners, and with these guidelines we have helped to provide the courts with an important tool for making maximum use of the expulsion rules within the framework of international law. That is why the sharpening of the situation was accompanied by a number of other factors. the provision on conditional expulsion, which was replaced by a warning system. In a later expulsion case, the warning system should give greater emphasis to whether the alien has previously been warned of the possibility of expulsion by repeated crime and, unlike the two-year expulsions, a warning has in principle no expiry date. At the same time, an opportunity was introduced for the courts to issue a shorter entry ban if this means that there can be expulsion in a case where otherwise it would certainly be contrary to our international obligations. In addition, I would like to emphasise that we in the government also focus on constantly tightening up the rules on expulsion. By this I mean that we are constantly seeking to extend the right of expulsion in certain serious crimes, so that in these cases there is always access to expulsion by imposing unconditional prison sentences. This means that there is access to expulsion, no matter how long the sentence is and no matter how long the alien has been in the country. For example: With the Government's bill on negative social control, adopted in March, we have strengthened the right of expulsion by the unconditional imprisonment of certain forms of negative social control. This is the case, among other things, if you are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for carrying out religious weddings of minors and for maintaining someone else in a marriage or marriage-like relationship with coercion. In addition, the government has recently put forward a legislative proposal to increase access to expulsion if a foreigner is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for driving madness. When we talk about expulsion, we cannot ignore the fact that there is an interaction between Danish rules and international rules, and let me stress that the government believes that Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order, including respect for human rights. Denmark must live up to our obligations as a country. This applies, among other things, to: the international conventions relating to expulsion. But the conventions are not above debate. They are the expression of political negotiations and compromises, and I therefore believe that Denmark must continue to influence the interpretation of the conventions where we can and say it loud and clear when we believe that the conventions lead to results that cannot be explained or defended politically. We have not been on the slow side of the Danish side either. During Denmark's Presidency of the Council of Europe this was precisely a focus area, and Denmark succeeded in creating support for what was called the Copenhagen Declaration and which among other things. provides more room for manoeuvre in the field of expulsion. The Copenhagen Declaration agreed that if the national authorities themselves have made a thorough balance in the cases, the Court of Human Rights will be reluctant and trust the authorities and courts of the Member States. I am, of course, aware that this declaration cannot be attributed to the current government, but I nevertheless think it is important to mention it, because I believe that it means something to the orientation of the decisions made by the Court. We have seen several cases against Denmark in recent years where the court has approved Danish expulsions. By January at the latest, the court upheld Denmark in two cases where the Supreme Court expelled two criminal foreigners who had grown up in Denmark and which everything else had to be regarded as having a strong connection here with Denmark. The Court of Human Rights emphasized that the Danish courts had carried out a thorough review of the circumstances of the cases, including, among other things: the crime committed and the criminal history prior to the decisions. The Court also pointed out that the Danish courts had taken their decisions, knowing that there are very serious grounds for expelling a person who has been resident in the country for a long time, and the court was therefore reluctant to override the decisions of the Danish courts. I think that as a country we can be very pleased with those decisions and that the Copenhagen Declaration is part of the context in which the Court is now taking decisions, and I think that this illustrates precisely that the conventions are not above debate. We must therefore continue to use common sense, be sceptical and react if international rules and systems prevent us from acting in a way that is obviously right. Something else that we can also be satisfied with is the case law of the Danish courts in recent years. Here I believe that there is a tendency for the tightening up of the expulsion rules in recent years to have had the desired effect. If you look at the recent expulsion practices of the Supreme Court, there are clear indications that the trend is that more foreigners who have committed very serious and repeated crimes are being expelled, despite being born in Denmark or have come here as quite young people and therefore have a strong connection with the country. This therefore suggests that a more consistent line has been drawn from the Danish courts, and I welcome the fact that more criminal foreigners are actually expelled, even if they have a strong connection with Denmark. In those words, I hope that the proposers have given a slightly more nuanced picture of the developments in the field of expulsion and also that the government is focusing on ensuring that the rules ensure that criminal foreigners can be expelled as far as possible. As you know, and as I have also repeated here today, we are looking into the possibility of seeing whether we can turn further on these rules. It is a work that takes some time and we need to think about the options that may be available properly so that we can hopefully come up with a good solution, for which there will also be a majority in the Folketing. However, whatever possibilities there may be, I cannot put forward legislation to the proposers, which ultimately guarantees that more criminal foreigners are expelled, as it is understood that the Danish People's Party wants. This is because we are looking for solutions that can be done within the framework of our international commitments. This means, among other things, that there must always be a concrete and individual assessment of whether expulsion will be in accordance with them, in other words the rules that we have adopted as a country. However, the work that has been started cannot lead to new legislation in this Assembly, as stated in the one motion for a resolution. It goes without saying: there are only a few weeks left of the present assembly of parliaments. In those words, we cannot support the motions for resolutions, but we look forward to the debate and debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114258	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114305	I have to say that for myself and on behalf of the Danish People's Party it was a very disappointing speech to listen to from the Minister. Now, of course, the Minister does not have to take any significant account of either myself or my 15 colleagues, but I think there are quite a lot of voters who have trusted in what the Social Democratic Party at the time called "justified and realistic" an alien policy that brings together Denmark, where in February 2018 it was said that if you came into government, you would challenge the Court of Human Rights if you came into government, you would ensure that Danish courts were given more flexibility in relation to the Court of Human Rights, you would ensure that countries accepted their own citizens, that more people were expelled, and so on. Now I understand that what was really meant was actually what the government then did, partly by some tightenings in May 2018, 3 months after this presentation, and partly by the so-called Copenhagen declaration in April 2018, i.e. 2 months after this presentation. Is this really the way to understand paragraph 8 on page 39 of the Social Democrat proposal? Because I think there are many voters who had expectations of something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114414	Of course, I'm sorry to disappoint Mr. Knox. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, and I would like to say that I do not care how what I say is heard neither against Mr Seligman nor against him. Morten Messerschmidt or the rapporteur's colleagues. But it's true that when we released this alien issue in February 2018, fortunately something happened in the field of expulsion in the months after, which we thought was positive, and which I also think I am trying to spend some time on in my ministerial speech here and unfold a little, because it has actually been important in the Danish courts, but also knows that the international courts recognise the work done by the Danish courts. I think that is a good thing. I also think I am trying to put a few words on what we have seen in addition from this government, both in relation to the legislative proposals that have been adopted on driving madness and on social control, but also the work that is in progress on looking at the expulsion rules in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114507	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114511	I have to say, I think it's completely incomprehensible. Again, that's the way it is, we're different parties, but come on, how must there be a lot of people out there who had a completely different expectation. No one said in May and June 2018 by the Social Democratic Party: "Check, so is fair and realistic " an alien policy that brings Denmark together." That's not what they said. There was a totally consistent election campaign, where people were told that they wanted a much tighter line than what was in force up to the elections, compared to having more criminal foreigners out of Denmark. But that's not what you seem to want. The other day there was a judgment in which some foreigners were punished for several hundred things, but they were not expelled. The infamous Levakovic family excels in crime but is not expelled. Does the Minister not think that this was the kind of thing the Socialist electorate expected the Minister to do something about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114606	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114610	I don't know if we're talking past each other. What we write in fair and realistic terms is an alien policy which brings together Denmark, after all, there are several different proposals in the field of expulsion. Some of the previous government, with the support of the Social Democratic Party, has, fortunately, taken some steps, some of which we are not in line with, and in relation to that I am trying to describe how we have taken some legislative initiatives that have been adopted, and on the one hand that there is something on the hoist that we look forward to presenting to the Folketing and for which we hope that support can be obtained. We are pleased that the previous government has made some progress. We hope to be able to go one step further, and when we are eventually kicked by the taboo court, we also hope that the next government will take further steps; I do not think we will be able to finish this work just for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114648	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114702	Thank you. I think it is a pity that this is being made to appear as if in recent years it has just fallen out there with expulsions and that things are going very well now. I believe that one of the crimes that we across the Folketing agree on is one of the most serious things to do with another person is rape, and we recently asked for statistics on the number of foreigners convicted of rape in recent years, how many have been expelled and have been banned from entry and how many have received a warning. And in the years mentioned by the Minister, after 2018, it is the case that in 2018 it is barely 40 per cent. by foreigners, i.e. foreign citizens, who have received a judgment that has not been expelled, in 2019 it is also barely 40 per cent, by 2020 it is barely 30 per cent, and by 2021 it is barely 70 per cent. of those who are foreign nationals who have received a judgment which has not been expelled. Does the Minister think that's the way it's supposed to be? Does the Minister think that the figures reflect what the Minister is saying in his speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114810	I would like to start by saying that I agree that one of the most serious crimes that can be committed is rape, and I also agree, as I said in my speech, that crimes committed by foreigners should, as far as possible, lead to expulsion. We are also of the opinion that this should be done within the framework of the international rules that we have adopted, and this also means that it is both a task for the town and country court and, ultimately, also the Supreme Court, if it comes to this, to take international law into account when assessing what the penalty should be and whether it should be expelled. That is where I tried to say in my ministerial speech that we are prepared to challenge the conventions, as is also stated in the programme for which we were elected. We believe that Danish society, not only with the current government, but also to a large extent with the previous government, has reached a certain point. But as I was also trying to say, we're not done. We have partly adopted some legislation since the elections; partly we are preparing further steps; we are not finished with it, but we are looking forward to presenting it to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114913	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114916	But I just think that we should be honest with the Danes, instead of saying that we would like to have expelled more foreigners, so to speak: we put international conventions above all else. Victims of rape must live with the fact that they can meet their foreign criminals shortly after they have been raped because the judges in Denmark are infinitely low and the criminals are not expelled. Why is it not said to the Danes as it is: you simply cannot expect criminal foreigners to be expelled, even if they commit something as gross as rape, because we think it is more important to be good friends with them down in Brussels and out in the world than it is to look after the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506114958	I would like to start by saying that the penalties for the gross violations of the criminal code have been tightened up, including with the support of the Social Democrats, even several times, in recent years. The second thing I want to say is that it is true that when it comes to deciding whether or not a penalty should also be followed by expulsions, so that for example. must decide whether he would be tortured if he were sent home to his own country. And it is true that we in Denmark are saying that no one should be tortured. That is true, and it is not to be friends with someone in Brussels, but it is because it is our view that people should not be subjected to torture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115037	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115106	The Danish People's Party proposes to ensure that more criminal foreigners are expelled than is the case today. In addition, it is suggested that children or adults who are members of a gang and who commit crime should be expelled from Denmark with their immediate family. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that political action must be taken as far as possible against foreigners who commit crime in Denmark, and this is particularly true of gang criminal foreigners. We do not think, however, that it is right for a family member to be punished for a relative's crime, a relative whom, in return, we must pursue, and therefore I am also looking forward to a bill in the Folketing which will enable us to take the citizenship of persons who have committed serious gang crimes so that they can be returned to their countries of origin. It is a key priority for the Social Democratic Party to ensure that more criminal foreigners are expelled than is the case today, and that far more of those who have acquired citizenship over time too easily can get it taken into account in cases where they violate basic legislation in Denmark as long as it can be done within the framework of our international obligations. Today it is the case that around 1 500-2 000 foreigners are being expelled a year, and therefore the picture that no foreigners are being expelled at all is not quite true. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is in the process of examining whether there is any possibility of further tightening the legislation so that more criminal foreigners can be expelled within the framework of our international obligations, and that is why the Social Democrats cannot support the two resolutions we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115246	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115250	I have to say that there is nothing strange about the fact that a Social Democratic rapporteur thinks the same as a Social Democratic minister, but it is disappointing that the two agree not to think what they have promised their electorate in the game they were doing here in 2018. So, now we heard the Minister, unfortunately after I had used my two lines, saying that it is a question of not expelling criminal foreigners into torture, and that sounds very touching, but would the Socialist rapporteur not then confirm that in the vast majority of cases where Danish courts do not expel, it is not Article three of the Convention on Human Rights, but Article eight, and that then it is because they are so fortunate to have a cousin or a child or a great-grandmother or something in Denmark that they are apparently so reluctant to be away from the courts, because the government does not want to change the laws? Will the rapporteur not confirm that this is about the right of criminals to be with their often just as criminal family and, therefore, is not a question of them, for example? in Georgia should be tortured if we speak the Levakovic case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115351	No, I do not want to confirm that unequivocally, because after all I think that there is something that suggests that it is not quite that simple. So, the case law of the Supreme Court shows, as the Minister also mentioned, that foreigners with very great ties with Denmark have actually been expelled in recent years, despite being born here or having come here as quite young people. That is why I do not think it is an entirely correct picture to draw, and I also think it is worth reminding you of, because sometimes in this debate where there are undoubtedly sometimes examples, and I would like to give you that. Morten Messerschmidt is right, where you take a look at your head and wonder why the hell you can't say that, but I wonder why it hasn't led to expulsion, that there are somewhere between 1,500 and 2,000 foreigners on average who are expelled per year for crime in Denmark. After all, I think that is a little disproportionate to the debate. So it's not like the courts aren't using this tool at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115443	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115445	But Mr. Rasmus Stoklund doesn't have to invoke the higher powers to find out why these people aren't being expelled. He can just find a mirror and look at it. Well, that's right, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. It is then those who put international conventions above the Danes' right to get rid of criminal foreigners who are responsible for this. So, I have to point out that according to the Constitution the judges must judge by the law alone. I think it is section 64. It is the parties on the left who insist that the European Convention on Human Rights, including Article 8, should be part of Danish law. Will Mr. Rasmus Stoklund does not accept both the moral, political and legal responsibility for not sending more criminal foreigners, including rapists, out of the country? And if he doesn't, who in the world is responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115533	First of all, I will refrain from calling upon the higher powers. I am not allowed to know that at all from the platform. But I would also like to say that we have tightened up the legislation, so that in criminal proceedings where the prosecutor wants to be expelled, the courts must also show, unless it is contrary to our international obligations, when it is serious crime that has taken place, and that is why I really think that, in view of the fact that there is also an increase in the number of expulsions, we are in fact well on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115606	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur himself for using the word, which we call a gang word. That is the next rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506115635	Thank you for the floor. On the one hand, it is obvious that these proposals are being discussed together, and on the other hand they are quite different. If we go to B 211 first on the expulsion of criminal gang members and their immediate family and the expulsion of clan families with insecure behaviour, I would say that we in the Left agree with the proposers that it should have severe consequences when criminal gang members and clan families break the law. We have now seen a number of examples of gang members and members of clan families creating insecurity in society with their totally unacceptable behaviour. We cannot and will not accept criminal gang members and members of clan families committing serious crime, driving madness, selling drugs, etc. Denmark must be a society where we give room to those who want to be part of the community, and there is surely no more cash way to get out of that community than to behave as you do here. At the same time, we must be tough on those who choose Denmark from and who do not want to integrate. But after all that has been said, it is not fair that family members should suffer. If there is a criminal gang member who commits crime and therefore has to be deported, then the family member, who may be taking an education or working and contributing to the community, must also be expelled from that I do not see any logic in it. We do not think that is fair in the Left. Gang members and members of clan families are perhaps the best examples of immigrants who have come to Denmark who do not care about Danish values and become part of Danish society. They take active steps into a more and more criminal career, they are expensive for Danish society, and they deliberately opt out of the Danish values. We wanted to be involved in anything that could be done to further punish this group, but it should not, of course, affect the family members. We cannot support that part as it stands. However, we would like to see further work being done on the idea of taking a hard stand against gang crime as such. When it comes to B 191, we are different in favour, and that's why it's a little weird that these two proposals have been put together. Let it be said straight away: the policy of the Left is that if you are a foreigner, and if you commit serious crime, you do not belong in Denmark, and then, of course, you have to be expelled if possible. I also understand that it is part of this exercise in exhibiting what the Social Democrats said before the elections and what they then actually deliver on. We would very much like to be with you, in particular, inspired by some of what Mrs Pernille Vermund said when she asked questions to the Minister earlier that the committee work looks at whether this proposal can be instrumentalized so that we focus on those who commit rape so that we can get them out of the Copenhagen Declaration. We in the Left will attach great importance to compliance with the international commitments we have in this area. These are also the obligations that enable us to send people out. A small state benefits from an international legal order, but we believe that there is more room for manoeuvre in the elasticity that arose from the Copenhagen Declaration. That is why we support the fact that we can look at that part of the further work on B 191.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120024	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120028	I'd like to ask Mr. Knox. Mads Birded in the dilemma he puts the judges in. What is most important: that a raped girl knows with certainty that her perpetrator, a foreigner, is expelled from Denmark and that she and her girlfriends will thus not meet him in a dark alley after serving prison, or that a foreign rapist may be allowed to be with perhaps his child, whom he has received in Denmark? What is most important: the consideration for the girl who has been raped or the consideration for the rapist who may be deported and then cannot be with her child?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120109	But that is only the concern of the victim in this matter and, as I have just said, that is where I think there is much to be done. After all, the statistics that Mrs Pernille Vermund read before speak her clear language about the fact that for a few years it has been going in the wrong direction when it comes to expelling foreigners who commit rape in Denmark. That is why I hope that we can focus our efforts on that particular area, because I believe that there is room for manoeuvre within the Copenhagen Declaration to be able to achieve a result there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120147	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120148	Well, there isn't much indication of that. In other words, the President of the European Court of Human Rights was quite clear 2-3 months ago when he said that the Copenhagen Declaration has absolutely no significance for the court's practice. But since we are in agreement, and it is indeed gratifying that the concern should of course be for the victim, could the Left not consider making a footnote to the expulsion clause and saying that, in the case of rape crimes, Article 8 is suspended in relation to the perpetrator?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120216-2	In any case, we would like to contribute to a recommendation to tighten up the rules on expulsion when rape is involved, if at all possible within the framework of the international conventions we want to be observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120238	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120259	Thank you. Like sir. Mads Fuglede, I would like to take the proposals one at a time. And it is not because we have sympathy for one of them that we are against both of them, but we also think that they are quite different. I'll start with B 211. In the SF we will have a humane foreign policy and a nuanced and proper foreign debate. This does not mean that we should not make demands on the people who come here. Nor does this mean that we should not expel foreigners who commit serious crime. But this means that we must remain within the limits of what human rights allow. Here the SF itself has helped to push for Danish legislation and the Danish courts to push the limit on when we showed, but we see nothing in the proposal here that proves that the proposal should be reasonable in practice. DF in its proposal mentions the area around Motalavej in Korsør, where there are problems with madness driving and mass battles. It is a very serious matter which is a major nuisance to the people living in the area. In general, it is important that we recognise that we have had and in some areas still have integration problems in Denmark, and that is precisely why SF has helped to give the Danish courts a better opportunity to expel criminal foreigners within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. But that is also one of the reasons why we have gone constructively into the work of dividing parallel societies. And that is, if I have understood this bill correctly, not just one step too far, but one step out into the bog with chains around the ankles. It is difficult to read from DF's proposal who exactly should be able to be sent out. For example, it says: Very little about the type of crime or insecurity-building behaviour involved. It says, however, that crime does not have to be gang-related and that insecurity-building behaviour does not even have to be punishable. Will it, for example? Say that Ali, Søren and Fatima, who are either resident in Denmark or Danish citizens, who stand at Nørrebro Station and listen to loud music and drink beer, must be thrown out of the country, and that so should their parents and siblings? I hope the Danish People's Party doesn't mean that. We have already seen the consequences of diffuse descriptions as unsafe behaviour in the begging law; we do not need any more of this kind, please. In SF, we would like to help look at how we can stop the problems of integration in Denmark and which the area around Motalavej is a clear example of. But this proposal hits right next to the dial, both in terms of getting a nuanced and proper foreign policy and debate and in relation to Denmark's international commitments. So we cannot support that proposal. In relation to B 191 we in the SF, since the Institute for Human Rights, published an analysis of the fact that the Danish courts showed fewer criminal foreigners than they could, helped to make a number of tightenings in the area, as I also said before. We have done so because we believe that when so many people around the world want to go to countries like Denmark, we should certainly not use the gunpowder on those who turn their backs on the community. This is the most fair thing to do in a situation where there is much evidence that climate change, wars and conflicts will drive more and more people on the run. But this must, of course, be done within the framework of human rights and within Denmark's international obligations in a more broad sense. In the SF we have noted, like the proposers, that the Social Democrats believe that we can go further than we have already done in order to expel criminal foreigners. However, this is assessed in the Foreign Affairs and Integration Ministry's reply to DF's written § 20 question no. S 735, that since SF together with other parties tightened rules in 2018, it has gone in the right direction in relation to expelling criminal aliens. According to the reply of the Ministry, there are clear indications that the Supreme Court's practice over recent years has changed and that the trend is that more foreigners who have committed very serious and repeated crimes are being expelled. Against this background, we do not believe that it makes sense, as such, to force the government to implement further legislation without further delay. So neither does the SF support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120722	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120725	Yeah. Does this mean that the SF believes that the government has delivered what it promised here in the section of Justice and Realism, a policy of foreigners bringing together Denmark, i.e. in paragraph 8 on page 39? Or does this mean that SF just disagrees with that policy? That is quite legitimate, even if you are a support party. So exactly where is the Socialist People's Party here in relation to the Social Democrats' proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120752	And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120753	To the first, i.e. whether the Social Democratic Party has delivered everything, I would say that as such they have not yet, but it may well be that they deliver more. I actually think that the Minister indicated this in his speech. In relation to whether or not we disagree, I would say that we do not agree with everything that the Social Democratic Party has put forward. However, as I mentioned earlier, we see that the rules can be tightened as long as human rights are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120814	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120815	So, let me ask Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin the same question I asked Mr. Mads Birded earlier. Now, let's say that Mr. Carl Valentin is a judge and has a victim, namely a raped girl, against a perpetrator who raped the girl, and the perpetrator has a child in Denmark and says that it is his human right to be with his child and unfortunately there is no such thing as sacrificial rights or human obligations, so the girl cannot object. Mr. Carl Valentin, that it is reasonable in the specific situation that consideration of the perpetrator's right to be with his child in Denmark is above the raped girl's right not to have to face the perpetrator on a dark street again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120900	There is no doubt that such situations are extremely hard dilemmas. However, I also believe that human rights are so important that they must be respected in every case. And if we start to oppose them first, it can have a very serious impact on human rights and therefore also on people around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120919	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, so we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506120940	Thank you. I have promised to greet you from the Radical Left and Mr. Kristian Hegaard and say that, surprisingly, they cannot support these two motions for resolutions. I no longer have any figures as to how many times the Danish People's Party has tabled resolutions in this parliamentary year, which in one way or another is about showing that one is in favour of a very strict immigration policy. I think I can tell you that it's gotten in. We understand. I am not particularly looking forward to spending the whole day down here dealing with one of the unspeakable proposals after the other from the Danish People's Party. Of course, I always look forward to spending a whole day down here with you, discussing foreign policy as we are going today. But I have to say about these two motions for resolutions that we are now debating, that now it is no longer a question of political disagreement. Well, we do know that we do not share conviction in this area, I assume. We know that. However, I do think that we could make some effort and, at least, just table resolutions which are within the framework of the Constitution. Otherwise, we will have to table a motion for a resolution to repeal the Constitution. That would be a little strange, I think, but I also find it very strange to table motions for resolutions which do not remain within the framework of the Constitution. What this proposal is about is punishing people who have not committed crime, and you want to punish those people for some crime committed by their family members. So it's gonna be a little out of control, I think. It is one of the fundamental principles of our rule of law and of the Constitution that everyone is equal before the law. No matter who you are and where you are from, the law applies equally to all of us, and you cannot be punished if you have not committed a crime. That is how it is in our constitution. The proposal we are now considering is to punish people for crimes committed by others. It is a punishment to be expelled from Denmark. If you have the right to live here, you should not be able to be deprived of it simply because you have a family member who has difficulty in complying with the law. It is very similar to what is happening at Assad in Syria, where families of people who have fled are punished solely on the basis of the circumstances of their families. It is also somewhat like North Korea, where generations are punished for the wrongdoing of a single family member. What it does not remind us at all of, however, is how we have worked as a country over the last 170 years. It does not in any way remind us of democracy or the rule of law. Whether we are in the criminal process or elsewhere in the public administration, a decision must always be taken individually, and therefore Enhedslisten cannot in any way support this proposal, as we also believe that it is unconstitutional. In relation to the second proposal, I think it is exciting, and it has also become a tradition down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, when the comments from the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution refer to the social democracy's own immigration initiative, which we must understand is very close to the Danish People's Party's policy in the same area since they make these proposals. One of the things referred to is that we in Denmark are about to challenge the decisions of the Court of Human Rights, and I think that this must mean that the proposers want to see how far we can press it so that, beyond the edge, in fact, if I know the Danish People's Party right. If the Danish People's Party knows Enhedslisten right, you also know that we absolutely do not agree with that. We must not go to the edge of the conventions; we must stand on the shoulders of the conventions. The conventions are not such a ceiling; the conventions are a minimum, and then we can extend the rights from there. At least that is how we see it in the Enhedslisten. That is also the reason why we must respect the decisions that come from the court. And once we have joined the Convention as a country, we have done so because we agree that human rights always apply, including to those we do not like. It is precisely the essence of rights that they apply to all of us. It is not something that we can choose from or to choose at will. It is therefore surprising that a democratic party chooses to make a proposal, knowing that it may be contrary to fundamental rights. Human rights are not some random project about making life miserable or difficult for you or Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. No, human rights are the absolute minimum limit on how we can afford to treat people in our society. If we resign or refuse to respect the rights deriving from the Convention, we shall also go in and say that people do not deserve a dignified life. We in the Enhedslist do not think that is right and, of course, we cannot support that. We have extremely strict expulsion rules in advance, and I cannot imagine that they can be tightened up without compromising human rights. If it is the view of the Danish People's Party that we should withdraw from the international conventions to which we have acceded as a country, then I think it should be proposed instead of putting forward these proposals, which we know cannot be done within that framework. Finally, I would like to say that I am glad that the understanding document with the majority in this House has decided that we are no longer going to the edge of the conventions, but that we are respecting the Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on Refugees and the other conventions. And that's why Enhedslisten can't support these two motions for resolutions from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121544	Thank you. There are a few comments. I guess I'm gonna characterize the party as at least a cheat word, maybe a little bit more than that. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121555	First of all, I would be happy to accept the call made by Mrs Rosa Lund for the Danish People's Party to propose that Denmark withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights. And I think I would like to stress in the comments that it is at Mrs Lund's request. Then I would like to ask two questions: I hope she can handle that. She says that human rights are what ensure that we have a dignified life. I assume that Mrs Lund is aware that the European Convention on Human Rights has only been ratified by European countries. Is it to be understood that all non-European countries are countries where one has an unworthy life, in other words where it is miserable conditions that apply? That's one. The second is whether Mrs Rosa Lund will clarify what a provision of the Constitution is in breach of this proposal. She did a lot of work out of the Constitution, and I love the Constitution, so can we get an answer as to what paragraphs of the Constitution are that this might be incompatible with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121652	I shall, of course, start by apologising to the President. Then I'd just like to say to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, that I think it would actually be nice if the Danish People's Party put forward the proposal to withdraw from the conventions, because then we can have the discussion that this is really about instead of these skin discussions. I would actually think that was more honest. In relation to the Constitution, which I also love very much, although there are things that I would like to change in it, it refers to the fact that everyone is equal before the law, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that is, that you only have to be punished if you have done something criminal, not that you have to be punished if you are related to someone who has done something criminal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121730	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121732	[Sound out]... It may be that Mrs Rosa Lund confuses it with the pronunciation to the Law of Jutland there is such a 600 year between the two, but it is in the constitution. And I would just like to say that Mrs Rosa Lund must be aware of the fact that, for example, you have to be aware of this. Article 45b or d of the Aliens Act provides for administrative expulsions. There are plenty of foreigners who are expelled from Denmark without a conviction. So I would like to call on Mrs Rosa Lund to perhaps just send me an e-mail afterwards, where she elaborates a little over what these are some provisions of the Constitution. Because that's not the constitution I signed to want to abide by.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121806	I am fully convinced that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and I have signed the same constitution, and it is now the case that in Denmark you cannot be punished if you are innocent. I am well aware of administrative expulsions, and that is part of the punishment that is being given.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121826	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506121848	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for two very good suggestions. I am almost a bit sorry that they are being treated together, because we think they are quite different. In relation to gang crime, B 211, we obviously agree that more gang criminals should be expelled ■ actually like most. We also support the need to do more to deprive criminal gang members of their citizenship. We, together with the Social Democratic Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Left, have even written this into our new agreement on citizenship, and we need to look into that. But we do not support that, for example. children or a wife must also be deported on the basis of crimes which they have not committed themselves. That is why we do not support B 211. On the other hand, we strongly support the fact that criminals themselves should be able to be expelled much more easily. That is why we Conservatives have put forward a proposal which is due to be discussed here in the Folketing soon. It is about abolishing the so-called time rebate, which means that it should no longer be an extenuating fact that a criminal has lived in Denmark for over, as I remember the two limits, 5 and 9 years. As it is today, a foreigner who has just arrived in Denmark can actually be easily expelled after a shorter prison sentence, but if you have been here for 5 or 9 years respectively, especially 9 years, when you have to go up to, as I remember, 3 years in prison before you start to expel criminals, and that is quite wrong. For the victim is hit equally hard, despite the criminal alien has lived in Denmark 1 day or 5 years or 9 years. So we look forward to hearing what the other parties in the Folketing think of it when we have our proposal dealt with soon. That is why we can at least be happy to support the motion for a resolution B 191 tabled by the Danish People's Party, which is basically about the deportment of more criminals. In any case, we also think that it would suit the Social Democratic Party to actually make some of the proposals that they put forward in the Justice and Realism, but which they have not yet made; not least in relation to the part about criminals EU citizens in the light of the two terrible cases that have been about two young men who I think had over 700 charges, including the rape of a 14-year-old girl. But they're still not deported. So we look forward to hearing what the Social Democrats think of it. That is why we support B 191, which is also largely conservative policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506122121	Thank you. There are no comments. We move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506122154	I told you earlier about Cecilie, who was robbed, assaulted, humiliated and raped on a spring night last year. A Somali criminal, who had committed three crimes before, received a warning of expulsion for each of the three crimes, was convicted of the rape of Cecilie and was given his fourth expulsion sentence or warning of expulsion. I'm afraid Cecilie's rapist isn't the only one. As I mentioned earlier to the Minister, we have recently put questions to the Minister for Justice. In recent years, just under 150 foreigners have been convicted of rape, from 2018 until today, and only approx. 60% of those who have been convicted, i.e. genuine foreign nationals, have been sentenced to expulsion with an entry ban. After all, it is totally unacceptable that so many people should get away, especially when we have a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, who think that the Danes want to expel more criminal foreigners, not least for crimes such as rape. Foreigners who commit crime in Denmark and foreigners who commit rape must, of course, be shown consistently and after the first sentence, and we therefore fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution on the expulsion of more criminals. The second proposal is slightly different. We understand the background to the proposal. The reason is that when a foreigner in Denmark is convicted of crime, there are a number of cases in which the foreign criminal is not expelled because Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights gives him the right to stay in Denmark because of the right to family life. There we in the New Citizen believe that the right must give way to conventions when they stand in the way of our being able to expel foreigners consistently and after the first sentence. It cannot be the case that, because you have a family in Denmark and commit serious crimes, you must be spared. If you want to live with your family, then don't commit crime. And if you do, the family has to choose whether you want to be with the criminal and travel with them or whether you want to stay in Denmark. However, we do not think it is fair for a woman who is married to a man who commits crime, such as a rape, to be sent out with him. Of course, she must have the right to divorce. And if her residence permit isn't tied up on his, she shouldn't be punished for his crimes. Similarly, we do not believe that parents of adult children who commit crime in Denmark should be punished for the actions of children. But it is clear that if you, as a foreigner, have your residence permit on the basis of a person who commits crime, you lose your residence permit. And it is also clear that if you are a single parent of children, commit crime and are deported, you have to take your children with you. It is not the case that, as a state, we can take the children from their parents. I hope that somehow we can fill some of the edges in the last proposal, because we share the intention behind the proposal. It should not be the case that the right to family life prevents us from expelling criminals. On the other hand, we do not think that, and I hope that somewhere we share, it is reasonable that if a man is convicted of wife violence and has to be sentenced and deported, then the woman is forced to travel, that is, when it is innocent people who are law-abiding citizens and who may even be those who have been attacked by the criminal, because we see quite a lot of cases of women who are subjected to wife violence in these families. I hope and believe that we can agree on this at a time or a time, and perhaps we in the committee can adapt the proposal so that what is intended of the proposal is clearer and, in this context, we may be able to support it. However, as things stand now, when we run the risk of condemning innocent people for a crime they have not committed, including expulsion, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506122639	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has any comments. There is no representative of the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506122700	One of Mr. Morten Messerschmidts and my good acquaintances or colleagues from the time on Radio24syv, Mr. Torben Steno, citizen debater and radio host, writes today in Berlingske that he is so tired of the Orbanist Folkefront, which is made up of the whole bourgeois Denmark and the Social Democracy. I share this tiredness from Torben Steno, but I have to plead with Torben Steno, because it is not all bourgeois Denmark, and not all bourgeois parties participate in this Orbanist People's Front. KD won't go along with that galley, and we'll never get to it. We have another place, even if we are bourgeois, or perhaps precisely because we are bourgeois and liberal. Sometimes I don't get it when Mr. Simpson... Morten Messerschmidt presents his proposals and he is now even an educated lawyer, so he did not become a judge instead of sitting in the Folketing. For Mr. In fact, Morten Messerschmidt, together with Mrs Pernille Vermund, takes up one single case after another and makes himself a judge up here from the platform and asks Mr Vermund, by the way. Carl Valentin to deal with a specific matter, but that is not our job. It is not our job to deal with matters. We had a discussion here yesterday, it was about the return of Syrians, and from social democrats to bourgeois politicians over the top of the coin, it was a great deal to say that we had full confidence in the authorities and the way they managed things, but obviously we do not have confidence in the courts and the way they administer the laws, and that is what I find problematic here. It is that we have a bourgeois Denmark which does not recognise, for example, as Mrs Rosa Lund says, the basic law, but certainly not the legal reform of 1919, which went from the Inquisitoric principle of law to the Accusatory principle of law, and it can never be the case that we are collectively punishing in this country, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt. As a lawyer, sir. Morten Messerschmidt then knows that we do not punish collectively in Denmark. And I cannot at all understand why, as a citizen who, when he calls himself a citizen, has to distance himself from collectiveism, he can reach the point where he is in favour of collective punishment. Well, it's just before you can hear the bells of the Chinese cultural revolution ringing when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt will stand up in this Chamber and make these proposals. This has nothing to do with legal certainty. This has nothing to do with the legal principles on which we build our country. It should not therefore be called, or rather it should not be called, that we will not at all times look at what is possible within the framework of the constitution, within the framework of our fundamental principles of law and within the framework of the conventions. We stand on them, otherwise we will not be able to act in an international legal order, because then we will lose everything. But within that framework we have no objection to looking at whether legislative initiatives can be taken to prove that foreigners who commit crime in Denmark can be expelled. But we have to stand firm on the fundamental legal principles that are both in Denmark and internationally, otherwise everything will stop. That is why we cannot support these two proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506123129	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has any comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506123205	Thank you, President. It is not many months since the majority of the Folketing chose to act as prosecutors, so it may not be so far to accept the invitation and also to be tempted sometimes to act as judge. It's like a full house, sir. Jens Rohde. No, I'm not a judge. I am not dealing with how to settle these cases, but I am dealing with the dilemma that those who wish to put the European Convention on Human Rights above Danish law are putting the judges in, and that is why I am asking that question both to Mr Beazley. Mads Birded and to Mr. Carl Valentin and everyone else who must bear the heavy moral yoke to have said that it is not the actual reality that is faced, which is the crucial, but the fundamental situation. For that is what human rights are all about: that a judgment in Strasbourg by judges sitting on the banks of the Rhine and enjoying their nine-year period, judgments with parties perhaps from Romania, Turkey, Russia, Sweden, has an immediate effect on decisions in Denmark, is, after all, the fundamental madness on which human rights are based. It is, and I say this with the same degree of sincerity and astonishment, that it is not yet • Oh, no, it is not allowed to say what occurred to Mrs Rosa Lund, certainly the policy of the Danish People's Party, that we want to change that. Then there have been many who have said that our proposal to put an end to gang criminals should break some fundamental legal principles. There was also something about the Basic Law, even though it did not seem that it was fully put into practice which parts of the Basic Law. I don't recognize that. It is very common within the Danish criminal law too, just to start there, that one can be judged for participation. The question then is, of course, to what extent one wishes to extend the teaching of cooperation. If you require active participation in the field of participation, you are in the cooperative teaching where it is only that you know positively that your evasiveness leads to the realization of a main relationship, or, you could say, where you actively know that you have neglected your responsibilities as parents to raise your children, which therefore brings about violent insecurity and crime in a whole neighborhood, yes, then you also bear responsibility. We would like to extend the teaching of cooperation to that effect so that the families who fight each other on Motalavej or otherwise act as a gang cannot simply push the individual before him and say: he did it and the rest is free. We have to deal with these problems from the bottom up, and that is why we also need not to put an end to our legal principles, but to adjust them to the reality which, unfortunately, has been created by the consequences of the international conventions, which are apparently more sacred than the most sacred of the majority here in Parliament. And then someone says, "Oh, but we've been trying to adjust the conventions," sir. Mads Birded mentioned it, and I believe Mr. Marcus Knuth was. We have tried to make a statement which gives a little more freedom to interpret the conventions, and that is, of course, a heartfelt attempt. It does not seem to be an attempt that has gained ground if you ask the President of the Court of Human Rights. He makes it quite clear that this has not led to any change in practice. At the same time, therefore, one girl after another sits and can then see how their rapists are not sent out of the country, because a majority here wants to enforce that it is human rights above all. Is that a healthy principle? Is it good for a country? Does this ensure that this is the foundation, as Mrs Rosa Lund said, for us to have a decent society? Yes, I can certainly find countries around Europe that have not gone into complete anarchy and lack of the rule of law • countries such as Australia, Canada, the United States, Israel, well-functioning rule of law. So we have been able to find out, even in Israel, without a European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, what creates a healthy legal system, what creates a good democracy, are not statements of principle made more than 50 years ago without any concrete association whatsoever with the real thing in which we live. What, on the other hand, creates a proper and well-functioning legal society is that the law is concrete and bound to the reality in which we live. One must just say with concern and crying in the voice, the reality that existed when Denmark committed itself to the European Convention on Human Rights does not reflect the reality that we are living in in the age of mass immigration. And that is why, if not a complete break with the Convention, then, to put it mildly, we need an adjustment, for example. to say that if there are certain crimes such as rape, like other serious criminal acts committed, yes, then Article 8 of the Convention cannot be invoked. Of course, the Minister speaks very frivolously about Article 3, because torture is something that raises ugly images in the head of most people, so we think of Auschwitz, then we think of Abu Ghraib, and then we think of people who get their fingernails pulled off etc., but he forgets to tell us how Article 3 is also interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights. Isolation imprisonment is torture, a lot of interventions that we consider to be completely common in the administration of justice, is currently covered by Article 3 and can therefore justify the rapist, that the murderer, that the perpetrator is not expelled from Denmark. We want to do away with this quite openly. But in reality, that is not what is at the heart of the matter today, because we know that the Danish People's Party is quite alone or almost alone with that wish. What we are discussing today is simply that the government is delivering what the government has promised its electorate. And it is quite right, as some have already remarked very carefully, that it is not the first proposal by the Danish People's Party to try to get the government to live up to what was announced before the elections in the run-up to the Fair and Realist elections. And yes, it would clearly be a step towards the Danish People's Party's policy if we decided to challenge the European Court of Human Rights, that the courts in Denmark should use more flexibility, that there should be faster and earlier expulsions, and that countries should also accept their own, that is to say, the things on page 39 of the Minister's proposal, that is, before he became a minister. We want a lot more, but it could be that you lived up to what you promised. That is not being done, and it is regrettable, and we shall do so, regardless of what the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and everyone else, yes, there were not so many others who chose to appear today, from the left to think about it, constantly reminding the government of that. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506123955	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506123957	Thank you. After all, it is just as nice to discuss the Constitution with someone who is as fond of the Constitution as I am. But, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, the Constitution says that there must be equality before the law, and if you want to punish someone for a crime committed by some others, it is not equality before the law, and that is why you are proposing today, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, in my clear opinion, unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124028	Well, you can't just say that something is unconstitutional without pointing out where it stands. Where does it say this with equality before the law? For it is a phrase: The law is not equal to all. Social legislation, for example: In other words, there are a number of advantages to people who are in a very special situation, for example. old-age pensioners. It's not equal for everyone. It is so equal for all old-age pensioners, but it is not, anyway, because there are some who get the basic amount and some who get the supplement, etc. etc. So the law is concrete. I would very much, very much like to be examined under the Constitution by Mrs Rosa Lund, but I simply believe that in her eagerness to study constitutional law she confuses the Basic Law of 1953 with the Law of Jutland of 1241.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124115	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124116	I would also very much like to be examined in the Constitution by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, so we can take a séance with another day. But come on, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, the constitution prescribes, and it is a guiding principle of our constitution that everyone is equal before the law. Well, then, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is right in saying that social security rules apply to people in a special situation, but they also apply to all of us if we should end up in that situation or when we end up in that situation and thus keep the principle of equality before the law. But it does not hold true to say that there is equality before the law when you want to punish someone for a crime they have not committed. It simply does not. But I can tell from this exchange of words that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and I will have a wonderful conversation another day about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124207	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124208	No, what we are proposing will be quite equal before the law. We would like all the Clan members who are involved in the main activity to be deported for their involvement, whatever it is active or passive. It is active in actively contributing, for example. by acquiring weapons which the chief offender then uses and passively it is by knowing that your child acquires weapons, but that nothing is being done to prevent them. It is in the spirit of cooperation, and I must admit that I do not remember whether it is section 21 or section 23 of the penal code, but I can check that out, and then I can send Mrs Rosa Lund the notes from Karnov, and then she can read it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124248	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124251	Going, sir. Morten Messerschmidt basically in favour of collective punishment? If so, does it apply only to a particular group of citizens, namely people with a foreign background? There are plenty of biker gangs anchored in Denmark, well enough with international networks. We have also had the Blekingegade Gang, which we all know about in all its horrors. There was also a big discussion at that time about whether to judge the entire gang for the murder of the poor policeman, or whether one had to be faced with the legal principles that apply not based on international conventions, but on the Danish constitution and the Danish bill of lading to maintain that one could not judge without knowing who had fired the weapon. This is not a new issue. That is why it is quite interesting to know: is the collective punishment as a general principle? If not, then who is it for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124358	By its very nature, we are not in favour of collective punishment. I could have answered that earlier, but I thought it was controversy. If a 12-year-old Arab in Denmark is convicted of a criminal relationship, then his 80-year-old great-grandmother, who lives in another part of the country and has not seen him because she does not like criminal Arab boys, must of course not be expelled. That would be absurd. What we are talking about is when parents have a direct responsibility for their children becoming criminals, becoming members of a gang, and either passively or actively doing nothing to get them out of it. That is where we believe that the teaching of cooperation must be extended to punish them as well. Sir. Jens Rohde is absolutely right that this is a parallel discussion with the Blekingegade gang, where none of the gang members would say who had fired the killing shot, thus preventing the perpetrator from being found. Then, of course, in my optics, they all had to be judged for participation because they could have actively chosen to tell who did it, but they did not, and thus they assumed a share of the responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124507	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124510	Mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt really wants to be able to be punished as a parent for your children's deeds? It is extremely far-reaching if you think the idea to the end. Again, should it apply to all citizens of this country? Because then there are some parents who need to think about some things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124542	Now I know that Mr. Jens Rohde sits in the grip, but at least until I walked on the platform, you could see on the boards up here what it's all about. It's about gang criminal families. So it is not the case that we want to see it spread to a general principle of law that if a person is judged, then mother and father, grandparents, uncles, etc. In prison. That's not where we are. But Mr. Jens Rohde can read more about the very limits of the proposal in the comments to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124612	No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124631	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124650	The Danish People's Party, with the B 150, has put forward a proposal to criminalise religious fatwas calling for criminality. I would like to start by saying clearly that those who call for or encourage crimes must, of course, be prosecuted and punished, and in my view this applies regardless of whether the threats are based on religion, political beliefs or something quite different. However, I share the view of the Danish People's Party that there may be a particular reason to look at the role that the region can play in relation to crime, also in relation to maintaining parallel societies and values that do not belong in Denmark. It goes without saying that this is unacceptable and I fundamentally agree with the intentions of the resolution. It must, of course, be a criminal offence to call for a crime in a fatwa, and that is what the rules are today. And if there is sufficient consistency between the call and the crime committed, the call can be punished as a contribution to the crime and thus, where appropriate, also lead to the same punishment as the executed crime. In the same way, there is already legislation which criminalises public incitement to crime, as well as the approval of, for example, terrorism, killing, violence and rape as part of religious education are also criminalised. So it is not the case that imams can go around without penalty and issue death sentences to the right and left. At the same time, the resolution raises some fundamental issues because it is only proposed to legislate on fatwas and not other religiously motivated calls for crime. I believe that, as a starting point, we should have the same set of rules for all extremists who use religion to call for crimes, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal either. Having said that, I am not sure that our current legislation is designed in such a way that in all cases it takes account of the religious extremism that has come to Denmark with immigration. Extreme Islamists are constantly working to undermine the Denmark that we know, and it is therefore important that democracy is as strong as possible in the battle that may last, I think, for a number of years. Against this background, the government is willing to see whether there is any further action we can take to safeguard the common values and democratic society that we all love. Therefore, we will now examine whether there is a need to change how we punish religiously motivated calls for crime. I do not know in advance what the outcome of such a study will be, but I know that it is crucial that the people's regime is not pushed into the background and that we are capable of defending our values. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124923	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506124927	Thank you, Minister. I find it a little difficult to find out what the Minister really means, and it is usually possible to do so. But here it is on one side and on the other side. On the one hand, the Minister considers that the Criminal Code contains provisions to ensure that the issuing of fatwas is penalised, the Minister believes that nothing will be done to improve the law because it is included. On the other hand, the Minister finally says that perhaps some areas are not really included. Let me just make it clear that if you use the paragraphs that are today that are not specifically about fatwas, you can have 3-4 years in prison. In the Danish People's Party's optics it is far too little. If you were finally to be convicted of that, 3-4 years in prison is far too little, because the consequences of issuing a fatwa against a person are so intrusive, so violent. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that there is simply a need for a chain tightening here so that we ensure and spell out that a fatwa that is issued is punished very, very harshly and in cash so that we do not run the risk of someone taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125047	I would like to start by saying that we believe it is important that we do not designate a single religion and say that it is only extremism in the region to which a specific paragraph is addressed. That will be the starting point for us. It can not only be Muslim-rooted fatwas, it also has to apply to all other religious extremists. We are also saying that it is already illegal to call for violence and abuse. It can be punished today. But what I say in my speech is also that we would like to see whether there is a need to change how we punish religiously motivated calls for crime. It is, of course, in recognition of the fact that some people have come to Denmark, some of whom are a minority, but some are using religion as an argument to push back the values of democracy. And we must recognise that, unfortunately, there are a number of citizens in Denmark who perceive as legitimising acts that the criminal code has otherwise criminalised. So we are actually looking into whether there is a need for changes to the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125159	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125203	I mean, I think there's a little bit of a blindfold here with the minister. The minister says that if you have to do something, you have to do something, and you may be open to it, then it has to hit all religions. But the thing is that right now we are in a situation where in France we have had a fatwa issued and where we see the Muslim world repeatedly, of course the extreme part of it, issue these fatwas. There it is just that I do not really understand why the government is spreading it all out in this way, when we know, and the Minister knows very well that this is where the problem is directed at Western societies. This is where this huge immigration has come from the Muslim world, and where you use that platform to attack those you don't like. Can the Minister not see that that is where the problem is right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125258	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125300	Yes, I can easily see where the threats to democracy come from, and it is not from Catholics or Jews or Buddhists. I can easily see that the discussions we have are about how mosques are funded in Denmark, how there are calls from chairs in mosques for example. to go to Syria or it was a few years ago that there were many such things. I can see it easily. What I am just saying is that if we are to legislate on it, it is important that the law does not go for a particular religion, but that there is equality before the law, so that means that what is illegal in a mosque is also illegal in a synagogue and in a church.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125339	There are no more questions, so we thank the Minister. And then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur to take the floor is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125401	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes to criminalise religious fatwas, which call for criminality, and that the issue should have the same penalty as the crimes called for by the fatwa. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that religious fatwas have massive consequences for the one to which the fatwa is directed. We learned this with the fatwa against Salman Rushdie in 1989, which was issued by an ayatollah Iran in connection with the release of the Satanical Verse. The fatwa has resulted in Rushdie continuing to live under police protection more than 30 years after the issue. In addition, the fatwa had consequences for the peoples of the West, as religious criticism became very clearly lethal. Fatwas must not limit our fundamental right to express ourselves, and we must, of course, insist that everything can be criticised. At the same time, of course, fatwas and other religiously motivated calls for crime must be punished. This is also possible within the framework of existing legislation on public incitement to crime. And as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said in his speech, he will examine whether it is relevant to do further if there are some places where issuing a fatwa does not have sufficient consequences, or there are some places where other religiously motivated calls for crimes do not have the consequences it should have. In this context, the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution, as we would like to wait for further legal clarification in the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125549	There is a question from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125552	The Social Democrats would like to wait for a further legal assessment in the Ministry, but there it is, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, be too late. It may be too late because we see evil Islamic forces around in Western societies issuing these fatwas and unfortunately also taking them seriously. Let me remind you of Samuel Paty in France, and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund himself mentioned Salman Rushdie, who has lived in exile and under severe threats. He has not even been able to come to Denmark for periods, and it has been impossible for that person to be at peace. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund not well see that action is needed now? What are we gonna wait for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125644	Well, if it were the case that it was not already illegal to make threats to people, then there would be an urgent need for action both here and in a wide range of other contexts. Now it is not the case that it is already legal to threaten people, and it is of course threatening people to issue a fatwa, because it is something that is a threat to their lives and health, and therefore much of what DF wants to focus on here will be illegal in advance. Now the Minister has just said that if there are some corners that are not completely covered and where there is also something illegal, we must have looked into it. But it is not the case that we are in a vacuum where it is not illegal to make threats in the meantime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125733	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125734	This has not been taken out of thin air, because, as we have also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, we have had to look at section 136 of the criminal code. 1, where you operate with and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is right in saying that you can punish with a fine or prison for up to 4 years if you issue threats. If you do so in the name of religion, it is also mentioned that it is punishable, but how punishable? Sir. Rasmus Stoklund knows that the prison sentences of perhaps 3 or 4 years are very rarely used, because we often end up in the low end of the register. So, in view of what is happening in the world and what else may happen in Denmark, can't the Social Democrats see that there is a need for a chain tightening here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125828	In any case, I would say that it is not the case that we, the Minister and I, stand here on the platform and say that there is no reason to go further. The Minister has just stated that it is now trying to see whether further action should be taken in addition to the legislation we already have, where, as Mr Beyer de Ryke has said, it is necessary to do so. Peter Skaarup explained that it's criminal to threaten other people. But now we're gonna find out, and if there's some corners where there's a need to sharpen this up further, we're gonna have to see if we can figure it out, and hopefully we can figure that out together if it turns out to be relevant. But it's just gonna take a little more thorough legal cover.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125906	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur, who can prepare himself, is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506125928	Thank you for the floor. This motion for a resolution reminds me, for several reasons, of a year in 1989, a year normally associated with democracy and freedom, because the Iron Curtain began to glue up and because the Cold War gave rise to its final phase. But it was not just a year of freedom, for it was also a year of totalitarianism in many ways. Peter Skaarup himself referred to it for 14 February 1989 issued the leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran ayatollah Khomeini for a fatwa over the British-Indian author Salman Rushdie, a fatwa that urged Muslims around the world to kill the author. He had committed the error of the year before in the work of the Satanic verses to describe an episode in which the Prophet Muhammad in his time was to have tampered with some verses in the Qur'an, and that was enough for him to now be of days. And even though it was a long time ago that the Rushdie affair was raging, in many ways it was a fateful affair that told us something about what we had in store, and in that sense it has had a profound impact on Western society. The fact is that the Rushdie affair is also symptomatic of many of the clash of values and cultures which today also characterise our society and which from time to time break out into flames, and here, of course, I am talking about conflicts between, on the one hand, the free societies that we have in the West, as Denmark belongs to, and, on the other hand, the Islamic darkmen who are trying with all power to introduce medieval standards and values into our society. If one steps back and looks at developments from the Rushdie case in 1989 until now, it is clear that there is a straight line from Khomeini's fatwa over the Mohammed crisis in 2005 to the attack on the French satirevis Charlie Hebdo on 7 January 2015. In all cases, one of our most vindictive values, freedom of expression, that of Islamism, and in all cases, the clash led to Islamists threatening fires and fires and innocent people being killed. In this sense, it is crucial that we take the threats to Denmark and the free communities seriously, and for the same reason, fatwas and similar religious calls for violence, killings and other criminal acts must, of course, be punished as hard as we can within the framework of the law, and much like harder than is the case today. We would very much like to take a look at that. However, in the fight for our values and our freedom, it is essential that we do not flush the child with the bath water or fight so hard for our freedoms that we restrict our freedoms or some of the balances that we have in a free society, and that is why we must be sure that we do not sacrifice values that we are trying to defend. We in the Left believe that it is essential to be very cautious when we confuse positions and actions and legislate on criminal law. There is no such tradition for this and, unfortunately, it is a little what is proposed when a fatwa, that is to say, a call for action and a call for action, is to be punished under the same penalty as the actual criminal act called for by the fatwa. In that light, one could argue that, in this case, one equates an expression with an action, and one should not misunderstand me here. We in the Left believe that calls for violence, killings and other criminal acts must be severely punished and we want to screw it up, but we just need to be careful and, like this, strike a balance. At the same time, however, we see here that we must insist that the expression, the fatwa, which calls for crime, differs from that which must be committed with the act, such as violence and killing, if Salman Rushdie had been acquired in his time or Kurt Westergaard or all the others who have been subject to this reign of terror. And there is a difference between saying something and doing something, and we stand firm on that, and it seems to us quite disproportionately to allow the penalty for a fatwa to be determined directly by the criminal act called for by the fatwa, or, to put it another way: we understand the intentions behind the proposal and, although we cannot support what it is now, we would very much like to see whether we can look at whether we can increase the penalties for fatwas. With that said, my introductory remarks should have made it clear that we are fully aware of what a trend fatwas are calling for, and an expression of Islamisation, a trend that we must fight for everything in the world, and I look forward to the Danish People's Party continuing to help us take the fight with these darkmen who issue fatwas and also get them punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130446	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130448	I would just like to start by thanking the Left for understanding the intention behind this proposal and also being prepared to support one, one must understand, higher penalties than these 3-4 years, if one now looks at the framework contained in the legislation today. That being said, I just want to ask Mr. Simpson. Mads Birded, about sir. Mads Birded agrees with the following consideration: One of the most dangerous things we may have when we speak terrorism, when we speak extremism in the world right now, is the so-called radicalizers, that is, radicalizers, who can issue a fatwa, encourage and animate others to do what they want others to do, but so that they themselves do not. It is, of course, a problem with which PET is very concerned, and I remember that the good old PET chief Jakob Scharf has spoken about it sometimes when he says that it may in fact be one of the most dangerous things we have, because it is some people who make other weak souls do what they want to do. And it can be many more people are encouraged to do so than a single person. Is Mr. Mads Bird didn't agree with that message?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130603-2	I fully agree with that, and it is of course very problematic if one imagined that someone could sit in shelter somewhere and get others to carry out these actions. And we have examples of that. When Osama bin Laden himself called for an atrocity and helped plan it, he also urged others to follow in his tracks, and it drew a trail of blood and killing after it, but led, fortunately, to an end to it 10 years ago. So it is very, very problematic that there are people who have this ability and that unfortunately there is also the responsiveness of too many listeners, especially among supporters of radical Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130701	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130702	When I ask, it is also because it is a problem, without the religious element that we also know about from gang crime in Denmark and in many other parts of the world, that leaders are often those who do not commit the criminal act, but have some soldiers around to do what then gains goodwill because they earn it by carrying out the killing or whatever it is. But the leaders are really the most dangerous, because the leaders are the ones who get others to do the dirty work. If you transfer it to the fatwa, it's dangerous because the fatwa is what makes others do what the one who issues the fatwa doesn't get done himself. So what I really want to achieve is: is it not really the expression here, the animation, the radicalisation that is the dangerous and therefore must be judged very, very harshly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130756	I agree that we must judge harder than we do today, and I also agree that there may be cases where the expression is actually worse than the individual act if the expression results in many acts of the same kind. And then you have to look at it. And I would very much like to take part in this, and we in the Left would like to see you look at whether you can tighten up the penalties in this area. But the general principle is that a speech and an action are usually two different things, although there may be cases where, as Mr. Peter Skaarup mentioned things differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130839	Then we thank the rapporteur, there are no more questions. We're gonna need some alcohol. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506130856	Thank you. Unfortunately, SF's legal rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, cannot be here and I have therefore promised to give her the speech. The proposal here is intended to criminalise fatwas calling for criminal offences. I must admit that I find it difficult to see the need for the proposal. If we had a lot of cases where we had problems with fatwas, we could consider some kind of reaction. Of course, I know the more than 30-year-old fatwa against Salman Rushdie, and I think that was a serious matter which had major consequences for him. He had to go underground and lived for many years in fear of the death sentence upon him. But, frankly, it is a little thin that the proposal refers to something that has supposedly been a fatwa from father to son in France. I am simply not aware of the fact that fatwas have been issued in Denmark, which can be seen as specific threats. In addition, perhaps most importantly, when it comes to the many serious crimes, it will probably fall under the criminal code already, for example. in the case of threats, incitement to hatred, incitement to violence. Therefore, it is simply difficult to see the need for this proposal. Furthermore, I very much agree with the Minister that one religion should not be designated. Extremism must be treated as extremism wherever it comes from. Against this background, the SF will vote against the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131010	There is a question from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131014	I have to admit, I get a little worried when I hear SF's skating over this problem with one: Well, I think it was something 30-40 years ago with Salman Rushdie. We have painters in Denmark who live in daily insecurity. We have Kurt Vestergaard, who was close to being killed. We have Lars Hedegaard, who was close to being killed by crazy perpetrators. Does the rapporteur for the SF not remember that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131046-2	Yeah, absolutely. And we take that very, very seriously. But that does not mean that special legislation should be drawn up for fatwas, and we do not necessarily see that there should be a need for it. It has nothing to do with whether you do not take it seriously when there are threats or concrete attempts at violence or killing against a writer, for example, but it is just a little strange to have to go into special legislation for fatwas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131108	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131109	Well well that we then agree that it is not only about something 30-40 years ago and something down in France, but that we actually have people in Denmark who live in daily insecurity because there are some other people, extremists who are chasing them on their lives because of their utterances. Then SF can call it a fatwa or notfatwa. The thing is that there are some people who have been hunted wildly in Denmark remember that: hunted wildly in Denmark because there are some people who want to take their lives that will really hurt them. There it is, then, that I am calling for a certain realism. We also have to look at criminal law when it comes to taking action against those who can hunt people for their statements, their drawings in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131159-2	I am really rather sorry if my speech was perceived as not taking it seriously when people are being hunted on the basis of their statements, because I think it is an extremely serious problem which has not only been seen here in Denmark. There have been many other cases. For example, I have. even in my own apartment at home a Mohammed drawing hanging from Charlie Hebdo. I think it was very serious and it is something that really affects me. So I'm really very concerned about that. I just think it is a little strange that special legislation is being proposed here. But if in any way there is a need to tighten up legislation in relation to it, then we are in fact in agreement that you can do it just as long as you do not make special legislation for fatwas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131240	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And there does not seem to be a rapporteur from Radicals present, so we are moving forward. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, who is certainly present. Welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131259	Thank you. I have promised to welcome from Radicals, who unfortunately could not be here today, and to say that they cannot support this motion for a resolution. I would like to start by reading from section 23 of the Penal Code: "The sentence given for an offence includes all those who have contributed to the deed by incitement, advice or deed. If I have to translate what is written for that, I can almost sense that when the Danish People's Party makes this proposal yes, it says that you are punished on an equal footing if you have offered someone else to commit something criminal by means of encouragement and advice. So why do we really need to criminalise things that are already criminals independently? I'm having a little trouble understanding that. The penalty for incitement is also the same as for the person who actually commits the crime. So that way, it will not have any effect on the sentencing if we ourselves criminalise a religious fatwa or any other thing that should call for unlawfulness. And I don't understand. As someone who often gets threats, even on my life, I would venture to claim that it is equally bad every time, no matter what it comes down to. Whether it's my red hair, my red heart or my red knitting, it's kind of just as hard every time. It is not right to call for violence or the killing of others. And precisely that kind of involvement is an independent criminalisation in the criminal code already today, and it can give exactly the same penalty as to the one who carries out the act itself. For it is just as seriously that far, however, I agree with the Danish People's Party. But whether it is a religious extremist, a right-wing extremist or just a person who cannot respect other people is quite irrelevant. I'm pretty sure my mom's gonna be just as sad if I get killed, no matter who killed me. So to sum up, what is being proposed in my optics is already criminal, and I think that is actually a good thing. And I do not believe that there is a need for independent criminalisation based solely on crime based on religious extremism. That is why Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131550	There is a question from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131551	I have to admit, I got a little provoked. One is, and I am entirely in agreement with Mrs Rosa Lund, that we should of course be allowed to speak in peace, including Mrs Rosa Lund and other politicians, for example. be allowed to say your opinion without being exposed to threats, including death threats, which I sometimes experience someone stay on social media. That being said, fatwas are about something else, because here we are talking about religious guidance. It is a religious guide that aims to guide a whole lot of people in that now it is about wanting to kill Mrs. Rosa Lund or Kurt Westergaard or Salman Rushdie, or whoever it is, and that is where we just have to recognise that we have tried to take it seriously in large numbers. There are very many people who have tried to take seriously the message, the guidance that lies in the fatwa, and that is why we have looked at it, because we have experienced the situation with the high school teacher in France; we have experienced it with Kurt Westergaard; we have experienced it with Lars Hedegaard; we have experienced many in Denmark, unfortunately, who feel threatened with life on the basis of religious guidance. That is why we are particularly aware of it. But then I just can't understand that Enhedslisten doesn't also agree with it, so we're gonna get rid of this extremism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131720	Well, I agree with that, but it's just that it's criminal in advance, sir. Peter Skaarup, which is why I see no reason for further criminalisation. I don't see what the point is, because the sentence will end up being exactly the same. So the Danish People's Party and Mr. Peter Skaarup is quite right in saying that freedom of expression is limited, and it is for many reasons. We know that, for example, there is a need for the Commission to take action in this area. are many women who refrain from taking part in the public debate on the basis of threats, and then we have these situations, as Mr. Peter Skaarup refers to, which is also proof that freedom of expression is limited. But what the Danish People's Party is proposing here is just criminal in advance, which is why I see no reason to make it criminal again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131801	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131802	And Mrs Rosa Lund is right about that. In principle, threats are already criminal. The Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party have then agreed that there may be a need for us to tighten the screw in some areas where we want to do particular work, identity theft, for example, and here we would like to point out to a particular extent in the penal code that it is criminal and that we should take action against it. Here the Danish People's Party then says that now we are also aware that fatwas are a particular problem and that it is necessary specifically to attack it, also with some significantly higher penalties than what is in the penal code today. That is actually what the proposal is about, so why not just support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131843-2	Because I think it's unnecessary. Simple. It's a criminal offense already. It is absolutely true that Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti have an agreement on identity theft, and there the paragraphs should look a little different, but it has just as much to do with the fact that it is unfortunately possible to say that it has become much easier to commit identity theft because of the Internet, and our criminal law has simply not been updated. I simply do not see the need that the Danish People's Party sees here. But I must also say that I am glad that it is criminal in advance, and I could never suggest that section 23 of the penal code should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131918	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur we are going to bring up here is Mr. Mads Andersen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506131937	Thank you for the floor, President. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Mads Fuglede just mentioned that good things happened in 1989 too, as my mother says, at least on April 24th, but that's another talk. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal. I believe or actually know that most people are frightened and appalled by incidents such as those that occurred in France, where this teacher was killed in an absolutely brutal manner by a student who, incidentally, had been called upon to do so at least allegedly via a religiously motivated fatwa from the pupil's father. Calls for violence and the killing of other people and threats of it must be severely punished, of course also when it happens with a religious fatwa as a motive. Very recently, the Conservative People's Party had several matters on the agenda down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which dealt with punishment, among other things. in relation to threats to freedom of expression. Gradually, there have been a number of cases where there could be a broad majority in favour of penalising in a wide range of areas. Calls for violence and killing with religious motives should be something that we take into account in those discussions. Unfortunately, this is something that we have seen too much of over the past many years, and a fairly clear parallel to terrorism can be drawn. In the Conservative People's Party, we also have a few things that make the chain defect in relation to the proposal, for example. When the proposers propose that the penalty for the invitation should be the same as for the execution, i.e. that the person issuing a fatwa, such as: calls for killing, is sentenced to the same penalty as is imposed for the killing itself. We'd like to have a look into that. At the same time, we have discussed in the circle here before whether we need to have a separate paragraph for everything, or whether this tightening could be included in the present paragraph. We shall leave that up to the political discussions. In this way, we may in fact be able to extend exactly the proposal here to all religious calls and not necessarily just fatwas. We fully support the intention to tighten up the penalties for religious calls for violent acts and very much welcome the proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and to discuss it further, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506132146	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506132200	Thank you. I have just learned that Mrs Rosa Lund had received my speech from the printer, and I am so sorry that it did not happen until Mrs Rosa Lund went to the platform, because it would have been a pleasure to hear my speech from the Enhedslisten. But, of course, it must be forbidden to encourage or encourage crime, even when it is motivated by religious motives. Religious fatwas calling for criminal offences have major consequences for the citizens affected, whether they are fatwas issued against groups or individuals. If you encourage or encourage a crime, you must be punished and you must be severely punished. If you are a foreigner, you must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. We should not accept that criminals can cover themselves under religion, politics or ideology if they call for criminality. If there are currently gaps in the legislation which mean that religious fatwas calling for criminal offences can be legal, those gaps must, of course, be closed. We therefore welcome the fact that the government will examine whether the law can be tightened up and New Citizens will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506132316	Thank you to the rapporteur. It does not appear that there is any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, nor from the Christian Democrats, so we are going to go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506132341	Thank you. And thank you for the relatively positive treatment of this proposal on religious fatwas and the separate criminalisation of what is in the motion for a resolution. What we take note of after following the debate is that the government will set some work in motion to assess whether it believes that some things need to be tightened up. I was not entirely satisfied with the Minister's conclusions, because I think something should happen now, but after all we must look at what comes from the government at some point. On the other hand, I had a very different positive reception from the Left, Conservative and New Citizens' Party, so thank you for that. I hope that, if the current government is not prepared to do so, perhaps at some point we can get a majority outside the government, which can then do something, because that is what we need. Then why is there? There is, of course, because Denmark and the Western countries have experienced a massive immigration from the so-called 'MENAPT' countries, which include the Middle East, North Africa, Pakistan and Turkey. From those countries a great many immigrants have come to Europe, including Denmark, and some behave properly, some want to Denmark and the Western countries and contribute, but unfortunately there are also a large number who are incalculably difficult to integrate, and who will always try to change our world, culture and identity.That is something that keeps coming up, and we can look at the daily reports in the newspaper columns, what is going on among clans and gangs and in ghettos, etc. etc. All of us in this room are familiar with all the problems, but we have often not done enough about them, and that is what we need, including in this area. We therefore want a real criminalisation of religious fatwas, and one might say that I was a little concerned about the short remarks that the difference between the threats that some people are aware of from social media, where certain people are threatening fires and fires, is, after all, that this is a religious guide issued, based on the Koran, and it is a guide that encourages others to commit crime. It is therefore radicalised guidance which goes beyond what a normal Western society wants and which is impossible to control for a Western community of law, because it simply runs at a higher level than we can imagine. The last time we heard about this in the public debate was, after all, in connection with the French teacher Samuel Paty, who, because he allowed himself to show some drawings for a school class as part of the teaching on freedom of expression, ended up being beheaded by an Islamist. And why did he do that? It was because this Islamist had seen a call, a fatwa, which meant that one could seriously strive this teacher for life and kill him, and it happened. Unfortunately, this is not a unique thing; it is not something we always hear about, but it is something that is going on in the real world, and in the West we have not least, as several have also mentioned, heard about it when Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa against Salman Rushdie, because he had masturbated himself to write the book "The satanic verses." The religious death sentence was issued at that time in the 1980s, and it is a death sentence that Salman Rushdie still lives with. So quite utopian it is, unfortunately, not to imagine that something like this can happen at home. It has actually been close, and it is very naive when someone from the platform says: Well, yes, but it's criminalised, what is that to do, we don't have to do that at all, because you can get 3 years of imprisonment, the penalty is good enough and so on. etc. I heard the SF's rapporteur skating very strongly over this matter, but the problem is that it can become a reality, and it can be immediately, and the government then has a legal work in progress that will come to a conclusion in a year's time, but, unfortunately, a great deal can have happened in this area, and we will not tolerate that in the Danish People's Party. That is why we would like the government to do something now and to find a solution during the committee's examination of this proposal so that we can have the fatwas issued separately criminalised. Once we have achieved it, we still cannot prevent crazy Muslims throwing themselves around with threats and everything else, but we can at least do it in such a way that it is punished in the same way as what they are calling on others to commit crime. It is a minimum that we could adopt in this Parliament if we wanted to, and I am so sorry that there has not been full support for that, because that would be the real thing to do in this situation. We in the Danish People's Party have tried to point out in today's debate what has nothing to do with religious fatwas, but which is the world we live in with gangs in Denmark, because there we live precisely in a world where the leaders, the leaders, say to their soldiers: Now you have to do it and that, now you have to kill it and it, or now you have to hurt it and it. Here we know exactly the phenomenon that some leaders, some lanterns, show their subjects and soldiers, disciples, or whatever you call them, what to do in situations that we also see with fatwas. Without comparison, the gang leaders are the ones who issue the fatwas, who sit behind it all and think and say: Here we have to liquidate it and that person. And the gang leaders are the worst in this context. The Fatwas are the worst, the radicalists are the worst, because it is the radicalists who mean things are going to happen. It wouldn't have happened if there hadn't been a fatwa, it wouldn't have happened if there hadn't been an order from the gangster, and therefore it's important to do something on this point. So we in the Danish People's Party want to be at the forefront of this development, we want us to do something before things go wrong, and send a signal, calling for crime, we should not be able to hide behind religious texts and interpretations. So the actions and utterances that you make must be accountable for, and you are punished in exactly the same way as the one who raises the call for real action. And that is what is missing from the penal code today. If this had not been established before, when the resolution was read, I have at least tried to make it clear here from the platform that it is what is lacking in the penal code today, as well as that we need to take account of other things, specific things, today that are happening in our societies that are constantly evolving. And there we must be prepared to amend, maintain, adjust the current penal code, and we are fighting for that in the Danish People's Party, so that we get a majority in here to see that we have to be prepared for that. We have to act before things go wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133210	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133227	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133253	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. With the motion for a resolution B 209 which we are debating today, the Danish People's Party wants the government to examine the possibility of establishing an exit centre in Greenland. I agree with the proposers that a long-term solution must be found to the accommodation of rejected asylum seekers, deported criminals and people who are suffering. I also agree with the authors of the motion that these foreigners should go home. All three groups are illegally resident in Denmark. We must therefore work hard to ensure that those who are not legally resident in Denmark actually leave. Lone aliens who are on tolerated or do not participate in their return journey have since 2016 been accommodated at an exit centre located in Midtjylland, called Kærshovedgård. The local people around that centre have thus for a long time, about 5 years, lifted a great burden on behalf of the whole of Danish society, and I therefore believe that we should relieve them. That is why we are also working to present a solution which will just ease them, namely a solution for the accommodation of foreigners without legal residence, and that is a solution that we intend to present before the summer break. However, I do not believe that the solution is an exit centre in Greenland. Although I agree with the intention of the Danish People's Party with this resolution, I can also say very clearly that an exit centre in Greenland is not part of the government's plan to motivate more people to go home. In just over a month it will be June 21, Greenland's National Day. It was on the same day in 2009 that Greenland's home regime was replaced by the system of self-government. The Self-Government Act marked a desire to promote equality and mutual respect in the partnership between Greenland and Denmark. It's a law that the government stands by. The foundation of the Kingdom is respect for self-government and respectful and loyal cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. We will continue and develop the close cooperation that we have with Greenland in a wide range of areas. And in this connection we have no intention of involving Greenland in the work of getting more foreigners without legal residence to return home. We will not support a proposal to place a new exit centre in Greenland. We therefore see no reason to contact Greenland's newly-elected Naala Suisut in order to examine the possibility of placing an exit centre in Greenland. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133555	Thank you for your speech, and there are a few questions. The first is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133601	Thank you. Yes, but now we are waiting again, and again we have heard that it is coming before the summer holiday, and we have to wait for that. I do not understand, now that we have the debate today, that the Minister could not then present it. After all, that is not the time for the sitting-free period, which is within a month, so we have to wait and see. However, back to what we are proposing, that is to say, to set up an exit centre at the naval station Grønnedal in South Greenland, and that must of course be in cooperation with the home government. In other words, we are fully in favour of the Kingdom community, and we do not want to drag anything down on the Greenlanders, not at all. But I am actually surprised that the government, now that this proposal has been in place for some time, has not thought at all that it might just ask what the Greenlandic Home Rule Government thinks of it. For that is, of course, something that must be of benefit to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133658	We do not think that it is sensible for the Danish Government to set up such an exit centre in Greenland and, as I have understood the statements from the Greenland Government, they share the same view. Nor do I believe that there is any basis for starting to investigate anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133718	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133719	But why not? I mean, I'm missing a statement of reasons. I simply do not have a statement of reasons. You can't just say that you don't think that's a good idea. Why don't you think that's a good idea? Greenland and the Faroe Islands are part of the Kingdom Community. So whether it is Kærshovedgård, Grønsdal, Sydfyn, or where you now come up with this exit centre is the same thing, because it is the kingdom, but we think it is most appropriate to put it in a place where it will be very, very difficult to cause trouble, as it is in connection with Kærshovedgård.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133758	It is not the case that Danish mayors are jumping to set up a new exit centre. It is certainly not a secret, and it will be a task to be solved on behalf of the rest of Danish society, and therefore there is no reason to deceive the Greenlanders that it would be a gift to receive such a task. It is certainly not within what I regard as the spirit of the Kingdom community if we start working on the idea of placing an exit centre in the south of Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133832	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133835	I have to admit that I am rather stunned that the Minister is not just trying to get something done here. It must be the case that, if you have committed crime in Denmark and have been expelled, you have to go home to your home country, and then you should not hang around here for years and commit crime. I would then say to the Minister that, when some people have done crime in Denmark and the government does not get home late, then at least make sure that they do not commit crime in Denmark, and that means that they are placed far away from the law and the law of the country, so that we do not get a situation where they do the kind of crime that martrates the whole neighborhood. The government has been extremely active in making all kinds of proposals in many different areas, but you have now been sitting for almost 2 years with a scrapped Lindholm, which was the alternative that the Danish People's Party could offer. Then the least you could do was to have a plan a long time ago on how to place those people in a remote place, and here we propose Greenland, which we think is very, very good. Then you have to explain why you don't want it and what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506133942	Yes, but what is far away from the law and right of some is very close to others, and that is also what we hear from the residents of Bording, so it may well be that it is far away from Copenhagen, but that it is quite close to their everyday life. And no matter where you place such an exit center, there will be people living closer than others. When we haven't presented a solution yet, it's not because we haven't done anything, but then it's because we want to be sure that both the location is right, but that it's also a long-lasting location. In relation to Lindholm, I would also like to say that it is true that the political agreement on Lindholm had been reached, including all the much, much money you would spend on it, but that it was not the case that Lindholm had been established. There was, of course, a rather long time horizon on that, and my ambitions are that there should be a shorter time horizon for the solution that we find.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134032	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134032-2	I think the message to the Minister must be: to get the criminal aliens who have been expelled home with that vons, and those who are then left, we have to find a remote place. There I would like to ask the Minister: is there anything in principle in relation to our conventions that does not allow us to place them in Greenland, as the Danish People's Party has proposed here? Is there anything in principle in our conventions that would prevent us from placing them in Rwanda if that were the case? Is there something in principle that does not allow us to do anything here? Is that what the minister's saying, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134106	Finally, I can say that, as far as I know, there is nothing in principle wrong with the conventions. If what I am saying now is not true, I promise to correct it in writing, but as far as I know, there is nothing Conventional that prevents us from doing so. That is also why I am arguing more in relation to what I think is fair and proper within the framework of self-government. But the first, sir. Peter Skaarup says, I very much agree, that the crucial thing here is to have a return policy that actually ensures that people get on the plane home. That's the first priority. Everything else is patching up problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134147	Then there is a question from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134149	I would just like to ask the Minister if he is aware that this is actually an old social democratic proposal from the time of the Nyrup government when Karen Jespersen as then a member of the Social Democratic Party made a similar proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134210	As far as I remember, the then Minister for the Interior, Mrs Karen Jespersen, suggested that this group should be placed on a deserted island. But Greenland is not a desert island, and as far as I am aware, it was actually a desert island in the Sound that she had in mind, but it is possible that I remember incorrectly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134230	Sir. Jens Rohde? Then we thank the Minister. There are no more questions. Then we can move on to the rapporteur's line, where the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134252	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party proposes to explore the possibilities of placing a Danish exit centre in Greenland, and that the conclusions of this search should be submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration by the end of 2021. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that we must go a long way to ensure that asylum seekers, criminal foreigners and people who are not allowed to stay are returned to their countries of origin and that there is strict control over those who are accommodated in exit centres. That is why we also welcome the fact that, hopefully before too long, we will have a new travel law voted through here in the Folketing, which will help to send back, among other criminal foreigners, to their home countries. This bill also contains a number of restrictions for people staying at exit centres in Denmark, among others. foreigners disappearing from their exit centre for several days, have their rooms emptied and confiscated their belongings. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration have previously announced that a solution will be presented before the summer break for the location of a new exit centre and, as work is already under way and it is well in the process of establishing a new exit centre, the Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal. Finally, I am surprised that it does not appear from what I can read in the proposal that our Greenlandic colleagues have been consulted prior to the tabling of the motion for a resolution now that it concerns Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134421	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134424	Thank you. But I actually remember that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, when we first launched this proposal, for this proposal has been quite a positive one in the press. I remember that, and I should just like to hear this: was it because it was not expected that a proposal would be put forward in the Parliamentary Chamber because it was, as it were, placed there? But I would like to put the same question to the rapporteur that I put to the Minister: why not? I mean, I'm missing a statement of reasons. I simply do not have a reason, because it is the Commonwealth. Whether it's far away or close, it's the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134504	When I am presented with ideas that I did not know in advance, I often deal openly with them, and especially when it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard who comes up with ideas, and I did so at the time. But I thought it was a slightly different situation. Because at that time we were in an initial phase where you had to find out what you could do and now I can't remember the exact time for that media story to find a different solution than Lindholm, which turned out to be too expensive. And it is still a matter of urgency to find a new solution, because in the area around Kærshovedgård you have problems with some of the people who live over there, and this is a nuisance to the local population. But now that the government has made an effort to find a new and good solution to this problem, and when you are ready to present it in a relatively short time, I see no reason why you should abandon all this work so as to start a process in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134606	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134608	Yes, but that is true, we know that, and the situation with the problems surrounding Kærshovedgård has been discussed a great many times, and now we are going to wait in bursting excitement for where the government in Denmark is planning to place a new exit centre in small Denmark, which is densely populated. So, today is 6 May, and we are probably going into the meeting-free period about the maximum. A month, and we are so excited, and we must be able to lift the veil a little during this debate, and otherwise we will have to raise another debate. We may, but do not the rapporteur and the government expect that exactly the same problems will arise in the local area as there are around Kærshovedgård?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134653	I certainly hope not, but I expect a solution to be presented within a relatively short time now, when both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration have said that a solution will be presented before the summer holidays, and I am confident that this will be a good solution. On the other hand, I do not think it is quite fair to try to export this problem out of Denmark to Greenland, and I therefore wonder why Greenland and our Greenlandic colleagues have not been involved in this resolution. Regardless of the fact that we are in a Kingdom community, we cannot in this way allow ourselves to administer such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134738	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134740	I have to say that I thought it was a strange proposal at the time of 1998, and I still think so. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is that we used to have a minister in this area who expressed the view that people sitting in an exit centre should feel almost as badly as possible, because that is what can sort of push them home. Is it also the philosophy of the Social Democratic Party in relation to the plans that I can understand the government soon to present?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134817	Well, it's a basic condition that those who are at these exit centres shouldn't be in Denmark at all. They are in Denmark because they do not cooperate to travel, and they must be motivated to do so. Hopefully now we will soon have a new travel law where there will also be better opportunities to find out where they have been, i.e. by, for example, by. To be able to look at data from mobile phones... that's part of this bill. There will be some sanctions if you are not in your room, do not comply with your reporting obligations and such things, and the kind of tools where there is a significant consequence, I think are right and good to use, because it is not the intention that people who do not have a legal residence in Denmark should just be able to live on as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134910	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506134912	But, as usual, only half of the truth is told in this discussion. For Mr. Rasmus Stoklund knows very well that there are some who simply cannot go home because the countries will not accept their own citizens. This applies to Somalia, after all. So we were told some figures at some point under the previous government, which was called 12 Somalis, but you will then re-examine approx. 865 Somalis' residence permit in this country, and if it is 12 a year, it takes 661⁄2 years to implement the entire plan. This shows that things are not always based on the will of the individual, but also on what the possibilities are in relation to the state that is there, and there is just what I am asking: should the people whose countries will not accept them tempt a life where it is about feeling as bad as possible until their country will accept them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135004	Firstly, over the last few years, as far as I can recall, there are, in fact, relatively many Somalis who have been sent home, precisely because conditions in Mogadishu and the surrounding area have stabilised. That's one part. The part is that you may also have to think about if you are Somali and do not have the opportunity to return to Somalia before you start committing crime and doing things that make you deported from Denmark. This is a curious way to sign for Danish hospitality, if it is because you have been a criminal that you cannot return home; now I do not know what specific examples these are, Mr President. Jens Rohde is referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135043	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135045	So, the Social Democrats went to the polls on austerity in this area, so it is a mystery to me that the government, when it became a government, does not make sure that these people come home to their home countries and put development aid on high ground so that the countries of origin do not receive foreign aid if they do not take their own citizens back. But, okay, until the government had to do it at some point, we have to deal with the proposal that is on the table today. If you're looking at what, sir... Rasmus Stoklund told B.T. on 24 November 2020, that is why Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the rest of us could have some optimism ahead of the debate here today, because then Mr Kjærsgaard said. Rasmus Stoklund: The idea sounds enticing. I can see that we have a problem with people who come here to receive thorough asylum treatment and refusal, and yet we do not want to travel. And some of them even cause other problems and end up in one of the exit centres. But then what I am asking is: why not support the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party here today? We support it in the media, but we do not support it in practice or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135156	I really think I have answered that part because it was a little the same, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard asked. And the reason why we do not support the proposal is that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration have explained that, in this way, a good solution has been found which is now being presented in the course of, it must be relatively few weeks or months, since it should be before the summer break. And I understand the impatience, not least of people living near Kærshovedgård, but it is not that there is nothing coming. It was one part of this. The second part of the question relates to why we do not then use development aid as a means of exerting pressure. That's what you do. It is a principle that we welcome, and that is something we do to some extent. And when the government took office, as I remember, it was five countries that did not want to receive their own citizens but were given development funds. Now you have come down to the fact that it is a country where this is the way I remember it in round figures and it is Iraq. After all, we had a statement on Iraq yesterday and there are, in fact, good constructive discussions going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135301	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135301-2	Well, then I'll have to ask sir. Rasmus Stoklund: Why are these people still gone in Denmark? In other words, if it is clear from all countries other than Iraq, as I understood it, then those people shouldn't be in Denmark at all, then they should have been expelled as they are already, and sent home. Why are they staying at Kærshovedgård or anywhere else? I don't understand any of that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund answered. Then I would just like to say again that all that about the government coming up with a plan and the government considering, and now it comes soon and something like that, was also known in November 2020. We have known this for years now, that is to say the government will come up with a plan to replace it about Lindholm it just hasn't come. So why is it that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund doesn't just say as it is, because in B.T. Were we against this proposal as early as November 2020, just as we are apparently today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135353-2	After all, there are also countries which do not receive much money in aid, for example. a country such as Iran, and that is one of the countries which is also having problems in being able to send out to Iran. As I recall from some of the statements we have received in committee answers, it is Iranians, Iraqis, Afghans, whom there are many of in Denmark and which you find it difficult to get to go home when they are not welcome here anymore. I have just come to the understanding that, in terms of Iraq, there are constructive discussions and progress in the negotiations on this with the Iraqi authorities, and I think that is extremely positive. At the same time, we were told yesterday that there are a number of other countries which, in the past, would not accept their own nationals, where these results have been obtained, so that they have begun to accept their own nationals. And there it has been useful to use this means of exerting pressure, as Mr. Peter Skaarup mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135446	Then we thank the rapporteur, there are no more questions. The next rapporteur, on his way to the platform, is Mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135507	Thank you for the floor. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers wish to oblige the government, in cooperation with the national government in Greenland, to explore the possibility of placing a Danish exit centre in Greenland. First of all, I would like to stress that the Left appreciates the cooperation in the Kingdom Community and we have great respect for the Home Rule Government of Greenland. I also think that we have been through a time when, at times, you can get the feeling that we in the Kingdom community sometimes drift more apart than against each other. If you are going to discuss what should be done and created in Greenland at all, then it is our view that it should be a wish that comes from Greenland before you can even start that debate. It does not seem fair that Greenland should take responsibility for Denmark's foreign policy challenges. The model of a Danish exit centre in Greenland is also logistically rather hopeless. This does not indicate that it is a viable solution. I think we had a good solution with Lindholm, and I actually thought we'd rather back it up. Nor do I like the signal that if you send someone to Greenland, there is apparently such a thing in Greenland that people want to go home, that is to say it should be worse to be there than anywhere else. That is not my view of what Greenland is. We have recently seen major problems at Kærshovedgård, where local citizens are exposed to this incredibly insecure behavior that residents from Kærshovedgård expose them to. We must do something about that problem, and we should not involve Greenland in it unless Greenland itself wants to be involved in it. The government has done far too little to achieve its ambition to establish an exit centre. Last week the Prime Minister said that there will be a solution before the summer holidays, but the government has done nothing yet. Nothing has happened, and this confirms once again the fact that the government is acting very slowly in the field of foreign policy. We agreed in 2017 that the exit centre should be moved to Lindholm for those who have been expelled by judgment. If the government had not chosen to scrap the idea because the support parties pressed it in the negotiating rooms, we would certainly not have been standing here discussing whether there should be an exit centre in Greenland. The idea arises because we have a government that does not intend to address the problems caused by expulsions to Danish society. With these words, I can say that we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135755	There is a question from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135758	Thank you. When the rapporteur rejects the proposal and says that we should not involve Greenland in this, I still have to say that Greenland is part of the Kingdom Community. So we're gonna drag Rwanda into this? I mean, is that a goal? I think Greenland would be more natural there. We'll get to it later in the day. But should we involve Rwanda in this? In other words, it is a discussion that I have heard that the rapporteur may have a better understanding of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135828	If Greenland is to be involved in this, it has to be because Greenland wants to be involved in it. And in the same way: if Rwanda is to be involved in something, it has to be because Rwanda wants to be involved in it. Greenland has self-government and over time has taken on more and more tasks, and those who have fled and have come to Denmark and have been denied their asylum treatment here have had no desire to come to Greenland. I'm pretty sure. Because then they would probably have made an effort to show up there. If we want to create such an exit centre, I think we should recognise that it is probably not a viable path if we do not have a dialogue with Greenland on this and start from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135918	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135919	Well, we can have that. Well, you haven't even tried. You try with Rwanda, but you don't try with Greenland. I fully agree that this is not just something that needs to be pushed down over the Greenlanders at all. But no attempt has been made at all, and I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506135939	Now I do not know what the Minister is doing or is not doing, and if the Minister is addressing Greenland's self-government and having a debate with them, I would like to say in peace and happiness that I have no problem with that. But then the debate we are going to have on an exit centre must be based on the conversations that have been held here and not on anything we are going to do here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140007	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140009	Thank you. I just want to remind you, sir. Mads Birded that it's called in
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140018	I thank you for being corrupted and will do my best to remember it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140025	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140041	Thank you for the floor. Greenland is a fantastic part of the kingdom community. It is rich in culture and has a breathtaking geography and a hardworking population. But Greenland also has social problems in relation to young people's well-being and with abuse, violence and crime. These are areas where Denmark as a good friend of Greenland has a responsibility to help. The Danish People's Party does not want that. Instead, we want to dump a number of rejected asylum seekers, some of whom have had incidents of crime, in Greenland • people who, as long as they are in Denmark, are our responsibility. The Danish People's Party is suggesting that this should be done through a voluntary agreement, but should it be concluded with autonomy, with a particular municipality, or should the entire population be involved? Either way, we are going to pay the Greenlanders to take responsibility, which is Denmark. SF is not in principle opposed to the idea of an exit centre outside Denmark, but must be established, it must be guaranteed that all the rights that foreigners have in Denmark also have at an exit centre abroad. We also have a number of other requirements if you were to make such a model, but I shall not bore you with them, because we will also have a debate on it later. It makes no sense at all to discuss a specific location of exit centres abroad until the legal basis for ensuring these things is in place. For this reason, and for the sake of Greenland, the SF cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140209	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. As the radical rapporteur is not present, we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140230	Thank you. And I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Kristian Hegaard and the Radical Left say that they cannot support the proposal. After all, we will have to discuss reception centres in a third country later today, why I will now refrain from entering into the discussion on whether Denmark can export its foreign law obligations to other countries at such a general level. We'll have to take that when we get there. Specifically in relation to this motion for a resolution, I would say that I was actually rather outraged, not that the Danish People's Party is going to send people to desert islands elsewhere, or that we are going to export foreigners to Denmark, because we know that there we know the Danish People's Party's politics, but that a party in the Danish Parliament can show such a lack of understanding and respect for the Greenlandic people. It is simply incomprehensible to me. One would think that in these times we had become wiser that we had understood our history as colonial power; that we had understood that that story bears witness to a time when we thought that one could treat other people really, really badly. One would think that we were a place where we accepted that we have harmed many nations and people in the way we have historically made Denmark an incredibly rich country. It has not come of itself; it has come only because, unfortunately, we have exploited others. I see this proposal from the Danish People's Party as a direct extension of the story we are just trying to shake off, the story we are trying to learn from. I believe that this is an expression of colonialism. Greenland does not need good ideas from Denmark for how jobs are created. The truth is that this is not a proposal to strengthen Greenland's economy. The only idea that comes from the Danish People's Party is to show how tough you are in the Danish People's Party in foreign policy. But I think you can show that without treating Greenland as if it were still a Danish colony. The Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140451	There is a question from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140452	That is more of a comment. I would like to be excused if Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten started to find out what I'm thinking and what the purpose of this is. What is the purpose is clear in the motion for a resolution, and I assume that Mrs Lund has read it. This has nothing to do with the fact that now we just have to show, because it actually has something to do with the fact that we have been waiting for a solution on the part of the government for years, and then we come up with a proposal, and there we expect that, like any other proposal in the Folketing, it will be accepted in a proper way. And we also expect rapporteurs to be present, because I think it is poor as it has been in recent times, namely that the rapporteurs should just stay away. Sometimes they hand it over to others, and at other times there are no comments at all, and it flourishes more and more. Well, that's just in a beekeeping. However, I would very much like to see Mrs Lund's rejection of the idea of motivating my views. I'll explain myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140547	I think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard knows very well that I am quite often present in this Chamber, since I am both rapporteur for legal policy and for foreign policy, where the Danish People's Party makes a number of proposals and where I myself make a number of proposals. So I do not think it is fair to say that Enhedslisten should contribute to just being a little indifferent or not taking the treatment seriously. However, I have to say that I find it a little strange that this proposal comes on today when we have a legislative proposal just now from the government, which is about a reception centre in a third country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140620	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140621	After all, I am not the one who sits and finds out when the proposals are to be put on. I fully agree that Mrs Rosa Lund is actually quite industrious, as is the rapporteur on the Radical Left. It was just a general view that I think it happens more and more often that you just stay away. It was just a page note and it was not meant for Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140645	Thank you. And then I'll be practicing to stop adding to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's opinions that she doesn't have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140653	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions and we go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Marcus Knuth from Conservatives as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140715	Thank you, President. With the proposal here, the Danish People's Party will send rejected asylum seekers to Greenland. It's not like I don't understand the motivation behind this thinking. In fact, this reminds me a little of the old days in Britain when prisoners and others were sent to Australia. It was far away, it was hot, and it was full of bugs, and then you kind of got rid of them. But that is not the way things are today. In fact, it reminds me of another proposal back in 2011 that was not so long ago when someone asked: what are we going to do with the nuclear waste we have on Risø? We can just dig it down on Lolland. It's a good idea, except if it's actually the case that you live in Lolland. This is also a little the case here with the proposal to send rejected asylum seekers to Greenland. This is a fine proposal, just not if you live in Greenland. I hope, sir. Mads Birds listen; he does. After all, the rule will always be that an exit centre should be in the vicinity of accommodation, and it is always really a pity to have an exit centre like your neighbor. So regardless of whether the exit center is located in Ikast-Brande or in Nuuk or in Ilulissat, those who live next door will have a really, really bad experience. So the proposal, as I see it here, will not solve any problem. It will simply move a problem from that end of the Kingdom to the other end, and we therefore believe that all parts of the Kingdom community are one hundred percent equal. Personally, I feel that every time I am in Greenland, I am delighted incredible. I'm sorry to have to leave. I find a great calm, a great joy when I'm in Greenland. So unless it is the case that the Greenlandic authorities themselves are asking for this, it is certainly not something we can support. With that said, of course, we understand the thinking of the Danish People's Party, but the right solution is that the government will provide an answer to where the new exit centre will be. So that's the direction the arrow is pointing. Conservatives cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140914	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506140918	Yes, but I do not believe that Rwanda has actually asked for asylum seeker treatment. It's kind of something the government's got going on. I just want to say that the Danish People's Party has exactly the same view: all parts of the kingdom are equal, all also Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I would like to emphasise this very much. But there is a difference between sending them to Kærshovedgård or somewhere in Denmark or saying: We will find out a scheme in Greenland. And then I have to say, I can't help thinking about now I have such a pretty good memory that Mr. Marcus Knuth wasn't very interested in Lindholm either, I remember. And it was because, I believe, there were also some rules for Mr. Marcus Knuth etc., so he wasn't too happy about that either. So it's gonna be hard to satisfy sir. Marcus Knuth in this. At least it should be far away from where you are. And that's actually why I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth could go with him to Greenland. There's Marcus Knuth in any case not set up that was just a bee remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141022	At any rate, I can confirm that it is difficult to satisfy Mr. Marcus Knuth. But in relation to the solution to this, there's always the thing about: not in my backyard. I mean, I come from Lolland, and I didn't think it was great about the proposal on nuclear waste from Risø on Lolland. Nor do I think it was a great idea to have rejected asylum seekers like my neighbor, if I can put it that way in summers. And that's why there's no easy solution to this. But moving the problem to Greenland is certainly not the right solution, because those who then become neighbours to the exit centre in Greenland do not think it is funny either. And they didn't ask for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141103	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141104	Neighbors, who's that? In fact, Danes have lived there. I've been up there myself a few years ago, while you still had the Navy station and the defense was there. I think so too, sir. Marcus Knuth must have been, I don't know. But there have been Danes. I mean, it's like you're trying to give the impression that it's such a thing that can't be at all. I had to say hello many times: Danes lived there. There were Danes working at that naval station. There were all the facilities that were needed. And there may still be. It's just until what's written down from these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141141	Yes, but for the sake of order: that's what I'm saying, that just as well as being buried on Lolland isn't a punishment, it's not a punishment to be sent to Greenland. I love visiting Greenland. I feel amazing every time I'm there. But it does not solve the challenge of the fact that those who are going to live nearby do not think it is very fun to live next to these rejected asylum seekers. And that is why, unless Greenland itself asks for it, it is not something that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141209	We thank the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141227	With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want a long-term and sustainable solution to be found with a Danish exit centre for rejected asylum seekers, deported criminals and people on tolerated residences. The proposers see an obvious opportunity in the former fleet station in Grøndal in Greenland. I and New Citizens fully agree that a long-term and sustainable solution needs to be found with a Danish exit centre. The situation today, when criminal foreigners run away, ravage and commit crime to the detriment and insecurity of the many citizens in the area, is totally unacceptable. And we also fully agree that an exit centre should be set up in a way that no longer bothers the Danes. However, we certainly do not agree that it is right to send an exit centre with the genes that may be there. On the contrary, in the new citizens, we believe that foreigners who have been expelled or rejected must, of course, leave. And if they cannot, they must stay in an exit centre where there is only one door out, and that is the door out of the country. Should you choose to move such an exit centre to Greenland, i.e. an exit centre, which is clearly closed, you are free to leave if you leave the country, but you cannot move into the surrounding community so you can say that there would be jobs in it for the Greenlanders. But it will be an unnecessary expensive solution for Danish taxpayers, especially in view of the fact that you can buy a padlock for a ten and that the state has already bought many meters of barbed wire, which is ready and stored in Skrydstrup. With little money, it will thus be possible to secure the current exit centre so that neighbours and Danes in the hinterland can live in peace. I understand that there are officials and others who say that this would be contrary to the Convention. So it would be a detention of these people if they were to stay in a centre where there is only one door out: the door out of the country. I have to say here that, if that is the case, then the conventions must give way. Because it cannot be the case that we have legislation to ensure that foreigners convicted of crime are expelled to some extent. And when they get a expulsion sentence, we have a government that does not manage to send these people out and that does not even manage to hold them in the centres during the periods when they are going to be there. It is simply pointless. If you are expelled from Denmark, it is because you should not be able to move around freely in Danish society. It must be in the term deported and in the conditions of being deported. If, on the other hand, the rapporteurs had thought that it was not a closed centre, but an exit centre where, in the future, we can also move freely into the country from which we have been expelled, then I must admit that the idea of depositing the problem to Greenland seems, in fact, unacceptable to me. I do not think we can afford to deposit our problems with expelled foreigners and reject asylum seekers to Greenland. Greenland has seen so many problems from my perspective to box with in advance. And the idea that expelled and rejected foreigners should be more willing to leave if they lived in the exceptionally beautiful surroundings that they have Greenland, I simply do not buy. More magnificent place is hardly found within the Danish Empire community. New citizens thus support the intention to find a long-term and sustainable solution with a Danish exit centre. And we hope that at some point we can get DF's support to ensure that the center becomes a center where there is only one door out: the door out of the country. And that it is also a centre that is kept as cheap as possible for the sake of Danish taxpayers. However, we cannot support the proposal that an exit centre be set up in Greenland, both for the sake of the Greenlanders and for the sake of Danish taxpayers. Let us now ensure that Kærshovedgård, where deported criminals are today, is shut off so that there is only one door out: the door out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141700	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard with a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141703	Yeah. I mean, I'm just counting. Danish People's Party: 16 seats. New Citizens: 4 seats. That's 20 seats. We've got a bit of a fight to deal with. And compared to the fact that sending them to Greenland is an unacceptable solution, I just have to say: okay, we buy 10 km barbed wire and 20,000 padlocks and it should have been done according to Pernille Vermund's quite simple solution. Well, it's just as simple as that, I'd like to say. And I totally agree that these people should go home, but that's just not the reality. We have experienced this for months and years with Kærshovedgård, where the local population is so plagued. Exactly the same will happen; first it was Lindholm, then it was Kærshovedgård, and next time it is somewhere in North Jutland or it is on Funen or in North Zealand, for example. at Bernstorff Castle in Gentofte I think that exactly the same problems will arise. And that's basically just why we're trying to set out a solution that's usable. Because that's the solution with 10 km barbed wire and a lot of padlocks, so unfortunately not. It's just as easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141817	I therefore agree that no matter where you move it, it is just some other people you bother if the conditions are the same. And we don't think that's fair. In other words, we simply do not think it is right for Danes to live with the fact that criminal foreigners can live almost as outlaws in our country. I also know that in the past the possibility of depositing expelled and rejected in Greenland has been investigated and that it was considered there that it was contrary to the conventions because it would no longer have access to the surrounding society. And that is why we say that if it is unconstitutional in Greenland, then there is no reason to choose the solution which everything else equally will be more expensive and probably also to some extent be a nuisance to the Greenlanders. If you are not going to be able to get into society or into the surrounding society, let us do it as cheaply as possible, and you do not do it if you do it in Greenland. If you're going to be able to travel, then it won't be with our support. We simply cannot support the fact that an exit centre must be open so that you can go out and ravage the country, even in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141921	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141922	No, no, it's okay. We can't do that either. Then we are back to the 20 seats. But I just have to say that Rwanda is probably unconstitutional too. We will come to that later today. It is also far away, i.e. the other way out into the world, instead of that way up to Greenland. And I have to say that I think the Greenland solution is much more acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506141946	There I feel the opposite: I feel no responsibility for Rwanda I feel a responsibility for our Kingdom community. If you chose to set up such an exit centre in Romania or Ukraine, or where you would like to have it, that is fine with me. But if, with the support of New Citizens, it is to be within the Danish Empire, it must simply be closed so that these people cannot come out and bother the surrounding society. Because we know they do. And it doesn't matter if it's Jutes, if it's South Zealanders, or if it's the Greenlanders who get bothered. But if it were in Rwanda or Romania or Ukraine, it would be more tolerable if it were for New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506142026	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. No one from the Liberal Alliance is here, and then we'll go to Mr. Simpson's office. Jens Rohde as rapporteur for the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506142044	Thank you. I got to thinking about Mr. Knox. Villy Søvndal's words about Fort Bragg, which he thought was under the ice sheet at the time, and if that was a solution. Well, joke aside. Thank you, Mrs Lund, for this is a purely confession case. After all, there is a completely equal line in that over-hand mentality, in relation to how to view the Kingdom community, from the debate we had when Mr. Søren Espersen had a debate with Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam in the Parliament hall a year and a half ago, and looked at such a proposal here where one feels that one can just come for the Greenlanders should of course be grateful for everything we do for them here from Denmark • with a proposal where one places an exit centre in Greenland without having taken the dialogue with them. I am not just outraged; it simply turns in the stomach of me. I find it appalling that such a mastermind mentality can be displayed in 2021, and for that reason alone the Christian Democrats are strongly opposed to this proposal. It is simply disrespectful of Greenland. And then we come to the more fundamental discussions on exit centres in various places later. I have to go to Mr. Knox's office. Rasmus Stoklund, who has then left the Chamber, but then I would at least ask the Minister to come up and apologize to the Somalis, who, with a handful of the Socialist rapporteur, were turned into criminals all of them, who had their residence permits re-issued as a result of a law which they chose to apply retroactively, namely the law of temporary nature, which was not in force when the Somalis came here but then applied in Denmark. According to that law, between 2017 and 2018 they took and retreated the residence of 928 Somalis. It had nothing like nothing! But that was not the basis for the re-examination, and I would like the Minister from the platform to state very clearly today that the re-examination of the 928 cases had nothing to do with crime. It is scandalous that you can stand and just suddenly drag people across a comb and criminalise them all. It is humanly unworthy, and it is unworthy of a society governed by the rule of law. It is true that when there is a long day of foreigners' proposals on the agenda, you are appalled by the things you have to hear in this Chamber. Then I just want to say, in relation to those exit centres and the fact that they can just go home, that no, they can't just go home. There are people who cannot go home because the countries will not accept them, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mr. Minister, and the Minister knows all about it. I do not know whether the Minister has the courage to come up here and tell us whether there is a repatriation agreement officially with Somalia, or whether there is not, and if so, what it contains. How many people have Somalia said they want to take home? Is it the 12, or is it the 28 that left between 2017 and 2018? Because if that is not more and we take the figure called 928, and say that the 28 should have gone to Somalia, then the last one must stay 33 years at an exit centre where it is evident that you must feel as badly as possible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506142546	Thank you to the rapporteur. A little has to be sprung before we take the next rapporteur, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA, who knows a great deal about Greenland at least. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506142613	The government's understanding paper says that it wants an equal, positive and respectful partnership in the Kingdom community. In addition, it also states that it must be based on trust and mutual respect. These are words that are repeated over and over again and that are generally followed in a very good manner here in the house. That is why I am also sorry about the content of this motion for a resolution. I generally experience that there are increasing new positive notes from the Danish People's Party in relation to Greenland, among others. in the dialogue with the party's finance rapporteur, Mr. Søren Espersen. Inuit Ataqatigiit strongly disapproves of the way to believe that you can use Greenland as a place where Denmark's foreign challenges need to be solved. It's gonna be a no from here, a clear no. This proposal therefore falls into a tedious category for a number of reasons. First of all, it can be pointed out that the area of foreigners is a Danish area of responsibility and that solutions should be found to the challenges themselves and not by placing a centre in Greenland. One could also mention the challenges of human rights by placing people in such a secluded and harsh area as many places in Greenland once are. I could also mention that in Greenland we do not have a reception apparatus or any kind of expertise or basis for accepting the rejected asylum seekers. Finally, I could mention the many challenges facing Greenlandic society itself, which must first and foremost be solved. The rejected asylum seekers are in very complex situations of life, and it is obvious that ensuring a proper framework for this group requires a very specialised and professional insight. The task is Danish and is not to be solved in Greenland. That is why it is a little dry to say that this is neither a good nor a sustainable solution. I think that the authors of the motion know that, and yet the proposal has been put forward. After the Danish People's Party for the first time aired this idea of an exit centre in Greenland, it became by the Social Democratic Foreign Affairs and Integration Rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, called an enticing idea. I was surprised at this, because I do not think it is an enticing idea, and I do not think it meets the principles of trust and mutual respect in the self-government agreement or, for that matter, in the government's understanding paper. I therefore also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration whether that position was in line with the government's political line and the answer was, as expected, a clear no. It will also be a clear no from here. The Government had no intention of raising the question of the location of an exit centre in Greenland with regard to Greenland's autonomy or, moreover, of supporting such a proposal, yet we are here today, even though the Danish People's Party knows that their proposals do not become reality. We, i.e. the Greenlandic politicians and the Greenlandic community are, moreover, the subject of the Danish People's Party's pressure against the government on a Danish political matter. I simply do not think it is worthy to use us in Greenland as an object in your political efforts. All due respect for the fact that every party has a mandate to conduct its policy, but unfortunately this proposal also turns its back on a Member of the European Parliament. Greenland is not a piece of land that Denmark can use at will, and of course the Danish People's Party is also aware of this. So in addition to this proposal being disrespectful, they actually know well in the Danish People's Party that it is unrealistic and that at the same time it breaks in relation to Greenland and the Greenlanders, but they still choose to make this proposal. Inuit Ataqatigiit finds this very, very regrettable. It makes it difficult for us to sacrifice respect for each other in this way, thus helping to break a relationship that we are actually trying to do much more up-to-date and more equal for common benefit. It is simply an end which we hope will not be repeated. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143115	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Just a brief comment at the end. I would like to give the floor to Carl Valentin from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143120	Thank you. That is perhaps more of a comment than it is a question. I just wanted to say thank you for your speech, which I thought hit the nail on the head a lot. I would also like to say that I believe that many of us Foreign Affairs rapporteurs are taking part in a great many of these kinds of debates, which may not always be expressed, how reprehensible we really think some of these proposals are, because we have so many debates and do not sit and write long, good speeches about it. But I really think that the rapporteur was given a lot of good words about what is wrong with this proposal, and I really think that was an important move. Then I just want to say thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143153	Is there any comment on that? Aaja Chemnitz Larsen Yes, I would like to say something). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143156	I would just like to thank you very much, and I would also like to remind you that we in the Danish Parliament also have a responsibility for the area of foreigners in Greenland, and the law is actually more than 20 years old, so while there have been 150 tightenings in Denmark, we have not actually been aware of the legislation in relation to Greenland. So I just want to raise a flag for us to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143218	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. I would therefore like to welcome Mr Siumut's rapporteur and that is Mr Høegh-Dam, Aki-Matilda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143237	Today we are debating a motion for a resolution in which the authors of the motion want to oblige the Danish Government to investigate the possibility of establishing a Danish exit centre in Kalaalit Nunaat. It is a motion for a resolution which the authors of the motion for a resolution have worked on without in any way including Kalaalit Nunaat in the process, which is actually thought-provoking, when Greenland, regardless of party colour, has expressly always wanted involvement when it comes to subjects relating to Kalaalit Nunaat, and that is what the authors of the motion for a resolution know very well. Siumut went in 2019 among others. for elections to the Parliament that the area of immigration and integration, which is known to be Danish responsibility, must be adapted to Kalaalit Nunaat and our values, because right now there are among others. There is a great deal of division at home, which is also due to the lack of integration among others. Called labour from Denmark, as we do not have our own law and administration on this. So as you can hear, there are many challenges in the field of immigration and integration that we in the Danish Parliament can and must address. We from Siumut hope that the Foreign Affairs and Integration rapporteurs will therefore work together in this Chamber to bring these things to an end. To return to the motion for a resolution, I would like to say that Siumut does not therefore support the proposal to set up an exit centre in Kangilinnguit, which is, after all, the correct name of the place, and which I will also use in respect of my country and my language in the rest of the speech. Because even if it had been a proposal in which we had been able to see ourselves, Siumut would have no intention in principle of supporting a proposal in which Kalaalit Nunaat had not been involved in the process beforehand, and I think the proposers are aware of that. We have seen similar proposals in the Folketing of the same party before, so I can only wonder what the motive is for the proposal. On the other hand, I think that at any time, as politicians, we should try to find common ground, regardless of how potentially one may disagree with a party, and on that basis I would like to agree when the motion for a resolution admits that Kalaalit Nunaat is in some way not Danish territory, when it is referred to as foreign territory. I fully agree with that, because Kalaalit Nunaat is just not Danish. But then the agreement also ends, because seen with Danish glasses, perhaps via Google Earth, Kangilinnguit may be deserted and remote, but not with Greenlandic glasses, because the people who live about 19 km away from Kangilinnguit are hunters and fishermen who use nature every day to feed themselves and their families, and by comparison, 19 km is not long when hunters and fishermen often sail 50 or 100 km to catch and fish. But maybe you don't understand if you've never lived there. So little for perspective, let us pretend that the situation was reversed, and we have a party in Inatsisartut which prepares a motion for a resolution, and they demand that the Naala Suisut, the Greenland Government, establish a Greenlandic exit centre for rejected asylum seekers in Denmark. You don't want to disturb the locals, so you think about placing it on a rather deserted idyllic field not far from, for example, Bredstrup, a field, which gives residents good opportunities for reflection, contemplation and reflection in a stress-free environment. If that sounds familiar, the last sentence I put is something that literally appears in the resolution's report on Kangilinnguit. So imagine that there came a proposal from Greenland as something to be done in Denmark, where the proposers from Inatsisartut do not know about the conditions in Jutland or at all know what municipality Bredstrup is in. How would this affect the Danish community and the Folketing? From Siumut's point of view, we have done some of the involving preparatory work of the proposers and have contacted the villager's president in Arsuk, a village neighbour of Kangilinnguit, and we have then checked, and the villager's president says he is outraged and sorry about the motion for a resolution. He says: We cannot support the proposal as we do not agree that it will not disturb our way of life, since since the 1930s we have had to experience limitations in relation to our daily lives and have had to put up with a very limited time to hunt reindeer and musk oxen with first the Americans and then defended without limits in terms of season. They have trained with firearms and have disturbed the catch animals. The example we are seeing here is an old-fashioned way of thinking in which, without respect for other peoples, proposals are dealt with in the Folketing. We see this, for example. in Arsuk, and that is why this motion for a resolution should be seen more as domestic political teasing on the Danish side, and on that basis I can say that Siumut does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143803	Thanks to Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. And then we should welcome the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506143827	Thank you. After all, we have discussed it a lot in this debate and we will also discuss it in the future, I believe that there have been problems with the Travel Centre Kærshovedgård in Jutland for years. Last week, the exit center was again in the media due to a hole in the fence, a hole that was probably made by the deported criminals living at the center. The reason they want to avoid control is because we do not know anything about it, but I wonder if it is about crime. The VLAK government and Dansk Folkeparti agreed in December 2018 to move the exit centre to the island of Lindholm in Stege Bay. We are convinced that if the present government had completed this decision, many problems would have been solved today. We believe that many had gone home voluntarily to avoid getting on the island. But the government and its support parties scrapped the proposal, and after two years we are without a solution, and now the Danes have again been promised a solution before the summer, which is close. We are impatient to get a new exit center to replace Kærshovedgård, which plagues the whole region with crime and insecurity. Just as the government worked with third countries on a reception centre for the treatment of asylum seekers, we have also looked to other countries in our search for a place that can accommodate an exit centre. And, as the debate and the proposal also shows, we have looked to Greenland. We want the government, in cooperation with the national government in Greenland, to explore the possibility of placing a Danish exit centre in Greenland. This proposal is described in more detail in the comments and actually gives itself. We want and believe that a Danish exit centre in Greenland can be a success, both for Denmark and Greenland. I would like to stress that we do not want to impose anything on Greenland or to drag something down on the Greenlanders. An exit centre in Greenland is to be established following a voluntary agreement with the national government in Greenland and give the Greenlandic community the opportunity for employment and earnings. In fact, it is also meant as a cooperation, a helping hand, which can help ensure earnings, employment and the development of Greenland. Of course, it is not a question of integrating people from Kærshovedgård into Greenlandic society. They must be there until they have the opportunity to go home. We may be a little naive, but it is actually made from a good heart and we wholeheartedly believe that it can be done with an exit centre in Greenland. I actually don't understand how you're swinging up on the high horse in relation to this proposal, but somebody's done that. It's their problem. It's not mine. Then I would just like to say that the naval station is still in a tip-top condition and, as I have also said, Danes have worked and lived until not so long ago. There may be medical clinics and teaching, as there have been; there can be 300 people living in those rooms, and that is quite a lot; it is a fantastic beautiful area. In fact, there is only a good thing to say about it. But we're gonna have to wait. And what the government says, I think I've heard before: we'll find a good solution tomorrow. And it's almost tomorrow I'll have to tell the government. It's just up to me that it's tomorrow. So now we'll see what happens. Then I would like to ask the Minister a question to which I think we deserve an answer, because a question has been raised as to whether it is contrary to the Convention. And I noticed that Mrs Pernille Vermund suddenly had problems with the conventions when it came to Greenland, but not elsewhere. So I have no problems at all with conventions anywhere, either in Greenland or in Rwanda or in Romania or elsewhere. So I would like to ask the Minister: is it unconstitutional to send these people to an exit centre in Greenland? I think there must be an answer to that. Is it unconstitutional? I think the Minister deserves to say a few words about this from the parliamentary platform here in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144237	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First it's from Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144241	Thanks for the speech. I agree with the rapporteur that Green Valley is a very, very beautiful place. My family comes from Arsuk, this village that is right in the area, and I myself have been there not long ago. But Green Valley is today a logistical jump. Three people live there and the area is more or less decommissioned. There's a lot of houses falling apart. So that's another job, you could say, if that's what you wanted. I see it as a Danish responsibility to deal with the area of foreigners, and then you have to find out what solution it can be. However, it is just to update the rapporteur that things do not look quite as good as they did a few years ago, because they have been left to stand by in Green Valley. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144330	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144331	That's easy for me to follow. This is always the case when things are abandoned, but I have no doubt that it can be rectified very quickly. The buildings are there; the naval station is there, and I think that if you did a job, as you do elsewhere, where there have been things that have been abandoned, you can very, very quickly fix it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144353	There is no other brief comment. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144359	Thank you. It's just to correct something that sounds like a misunderstanding. We certainly have no problem with saying that conventions must give way to ensuring that expulsions are not ravaged either in Denmark, Greenland or elsewhere within the Kingdom community. If we do not want an exit centre to be in Greenland, then it is partly because Greenlanders are at risk of being harassed by it here, and if you choose the solution that New Citizens think is the right one: an exit centre where there is only one door out, and that is the door out of the country, then sending them up there will be an unnecessary expensive solution. And when I mention that this is probably contrary to the conventions, which means that it would be similar to creating a centre where there is only one door out, then it is in that sense after a short conference with the minister also based on information I have received earlier, but the minister can probably update us on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144504	Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144505	Thank you. It's fine. Either you're preoccupied with conventions or you're not. You just have to say that, whether it is in Greenland or elsewhere in the world. Either you're preoccupied with it or you're not. I do not want to harass the Greenlanders, but I also do not want to harass the local population in Denmark, where there is a much larger human flow, where there is much more densely built-up. It is a small country, while there are very large areas in Greenland. It's a kingdom community. That's what it is, and that's just what I want to involve in this. I do not want to cause problems at all, but I just see a solution and not a problem for the Greenlanders. I just see a solution to what we do with the people that I would like to see returned, but as all experience just says cannot be done because we have been waiting for it for quite many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144559	Thank you. We were just going to confer, because the Minister is taking the floor. First of all, we would like to make a second brief comment to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144606	Thank you. I'll try again. I said it in my rapporteur's speech, I also said it in my first comment, and I say it again. For us it is no problem that the conventions should give way; the most important thing is the freedom and security of the Danes. We have no problem saying that conventions must give way. What we have a problem with is if you say that you will continue to move a possible centre around where it can bother other people. If you choose a different solution, which is New Citizens' solution, a centre that you cannot get out of, other than if you leave the country, then of course you choose the cheapest place for the Danes' tax dollars and not one of the most expensive ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144649	Thank you. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144650	Yes, but Lindholm was too expensive. That's why you didn't want it on Lindholm; it was too expensive. You wouldn't, because it was too expensive. Greenland is far too expensive. It's all too expensive, and we have to find some sort of solution. The government must do so, and I fully agree with it with the conventions. But the only problem is that we have a problem, and I think we will do that in a little month or when. After all, the government says that we will come up with a good solution tomorrow before we all go to the sitting-free period. Well, we're waiting in excitement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144722	Thank you. There is one brief comment to make, but I would just like to announce that the Minister will go to the platform and have his three minutes, but there is no possibility of asking follow-up questions. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Høegh-Dam from Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144736	Thank you. I find it interesting that the DF in the comments on this proposal equates Greenland with a third country in North Africa, but even more interesting that DF believes that Greenland, which they also call overseas for a while, is also part of the Kingdom Community. If we now mention community, I think it is also appropriate to ask the rapporteur which institutions, organisations, ministers or members of parliament, etc. DF has asked in advance whether we from Greenland want to establish a cooperation on an exit centre with Denmark at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144813	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144814	No, and it is not up to the resolution to do so. If this resolution is adopted, it is the government's job to make contact with the Home Rule Government. It is the government's job to contact the home government and find out if a solution can be found. It is not the Danish People's Party that should contact the Home Ruler or other Greenlandic politicians. It is clearly the task of the government if the resolution is adopted. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144844	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144845	But I am also thinking, in principle, of how to carry out political work. If you really want to set up such an exit centre in Greenland and it wasn't really just a media stunt, you'd think you'd at least had contact with some Greenlandic politicians to see if this proposal could actually be realistic. That is why I wonder why we MEPs from Greenland have not even been approached, because we have the majority in the Greenland Parliament, just to have a sense of whether there is agreement, also referred to as a community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144917	Thank you. Here you go, Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144918	I think maybe I've had a clear sense of how you'd feel. We have heard that in the press too. But no matter what, it is a hundred per cent of the government's job, no doubt if it is adopted. It doesn't look like it. And free me from being called a media stunt; we have been so many times over the ages. Many media stunts have become legislative proposals later, so we can boast of that a little. And I have to point out that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund at first called it enticing. Well, we're not that far from here, are we? We're not all alone. We are now, but we have not been entirely alone in the argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506144953	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. I am told that the Minister has a brief comment to make to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, but the Minister must first appear on the platform and then you can replicate on it. It is the case that when the Minister makes a brief comment, it is from the platform. As I read in the Rules of Procedure, there is no possibility of replying, but that is a brief comment. Then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, but he is again speaking as a brief comment. The minister has three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145048	Thank you. A few questions have been raised to which I would just like to give a brief answer. One is for Mr. Jens Rohde, who asks about the basis for the involvement and refusal of the extension of the residence permit to a group of Somalis, was based on crime. I can cancel it. It didn't. The second is that I would just like to correct something I said from the platform earlier. I said that, as far as I knew, there was no contractual obstacle to setting up an exit centre somewhere in Greenland, and there I have been made a little wiser by some of the wise officials who are down here who say that it can raise issues in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights if it is too remote. It is not a verdict that all exit centres in Greenland at all times will necessarily be in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights, but it is just to say that that cannot be ruled out. It was mostly just to correct what I said myself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145146	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145218	The debate is open. And first, we must welcome again the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145227	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposes, in the motion for a resolution, to change the employment requirement in order to obtain a permanent residence permit, as well as what we call permanent residence permit, so that in future teachers' time and internships must be taken into account when determining whether the employment requirement is met. Parliament has previously discussed motion for a resolution No. B 65 to allow all training to be counted when determining the employment requirement for permanent residence. The government did not support the resolution at the time, nor can we support the resolution in this form. The Government believes that it is a sensible and reasonable starting point that foreigners wishing to obtain permanent residence permit have either been in full-time employment or have had their own business for some years. Foreigners should not be able to qualify for permanent residence in Denmark alone by training themselves in su. The rules for obtaining permanent residence permits, including employment requirements, were tightened in 2016. The changes were made, among other things. In this context, training should no longer be regarded as employment in relation to the fulfilment of the requirements. The Social Democratic Party supported that change at that time. The following year, in spring 2017, the basic employment requirement was further tightened. Today, therefore, the requirement implies that foreigners must have been in ordinary full-time or self-employed employment for at least 31⁄2 years in the last four years prior to the notification of permanent residence. Both in 2016 and in 2017, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament was behind the tightening and both with the support of the Social Democratic Party. When the Social Democratic Party has supported the employment requirements, it is because we have experienced foreigners in the past who have been permanently resident without having contributed much work in Denmark. This has had consequences for integration, because permanent residence means that a foreigner usually has the right to stay in this country, even if the basis for the residence permit is no longer present or even if the alien becomes dependent on public assistance. That is why, in the opinion of the government, a commitment to a life in this country should require that a contribution be made to society by working. Today there is therefore a duty to contribute a few years on the Danish labour market by working for a minimum of 30 hours a week. And that is what we consider to be reasonable as a starting point. It is possible that some people will have to wait a little longer to get permanent residence permits with those rules, but that does not mean that they are excluded from ever having them. As I have also quoted in the motion for a resolution, I have already pointed out that I think it is paradoxical that work in the context of vocational training does not count in the calculation of employment requirements. However, the social democracy could not convince the other parties behind the rules that the part of vocational training in which the pupil has a training agreement with a company should be included in the calculation of employment requirements. However, I still think basically that it may be sensible to include apprenticeship, in the calculation of the employment requirement as long as it is paid. So I can understand the intention behind the motion for a resolution, at least as I read the comments. However, I cannot support the idea that all internship should simply be equated with ordinary full-time employment. At first sight, I think that a cut should be made where it can be compared to a normal job, i.e. that you are paid by your employer. This would mean that it would not be possible to calculate the employment requirement if the foreigner were to receive a pension during the internship. But I would just like to ask officials in the Ministry to look at what that will mean in terms of what can be counted and what cannot be counted with. We need to find the best possible solution, so I do not want to lay down precisely where the cut is to be made today. Against this background, I will now start work on examining more precisely how periods of paid internship can be included in the employment requirements for permanent stay on an equal footing with all other full-time work. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145635	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145641	Thank you. Perhaps it is just because it has stopped raining outside, but I thought I heard a small opening from the Minister to a motion for a resolution in the field of foreigners from the Enhedslisten. I thought that was nice. I should just like to ask the Minister whether the opening I think the Minister is making is that it is if you are in full-time employment, i.e. if you do not get su. Now there are some studies where you get su during your internship period, but of course still are full-time employed. This is true, for example. nurses.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145715	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145716	Yeah. Our starting point will be that it should be paid employment. For example, it will. apply to bricklayer apprentices who meet at 1 p.m. 7:00 a.m. and off duty at 7:00 a.m. 15.00 and who participate fully on an equal footing in production and are paid under the agreement. They have a perfectly normal job. And there I have always thought that it should be regarded as a perfectly normal job. If you told those people that there is a clause in the Aliens Act that makes it not considered as ordinary work, they will probably say that they are still tired when they come home, and they find that paragraph hard to understand. I also think that the starting point is that they have gone to work, they have earned money, they have paid taxes into the common fund. I therefore think that the basis for giving them permanent residence permits should be considered, and that is also why we are now going to set this work in motion. However, as the questioner himself says, the education sector is a criinkel hook. It's a maze to find around. That is why I think it is important that we have this thoroughly examined. What does it want, for example? What is the meaning of the term for agricultural interns? They are also internship, they are also paid. Then there are educators, whom we would normally compare with nursing students they are paid, but nursing students are not. And I think we should get all that straight first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145826	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145827	That's exactly what the point is. I fully agree, and that is why we have tabled this proposal, because a bricklayer's apprentice or carpenter's apprentice is just as tired when he comes home from work as anyone else who has full-time employment. But it is also they who are receiving su after all, i.e. for example. the nursing students. They do not work less during their internships because they get su. They are given su, because they would like to indicate that they are part of the training and that they should not be included in the standards for example. The hospitals. But what I hear the Minister say is that you start a job now that you look at the paid internships. I would then just recommend that you bring su too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145913	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145914	I fully admit that there are quite relevant discussions to be held here. I have also worked in the field of education and also know that there are historical reasons why different courses look different ways. I just think that it is reasonable to have access to permanent residence in Denmark and to be able to draw fully and completely on the Danish welfare state for the rest of your life, unless you commit serious crime, that you yourself have spit a little in the box first. This means that you have earned your own money and delivered x percent to the Treasury before you get access to withdraw from it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145950	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506145955	Thank you very much. I also think I can see an opening which is slightly different and nicer to listen to than when we discussed the motion for a resolution, B 65, to which the Minister also refers and which we tabled radically. I can actually see that there must be a political disagreement as to whether it is all full-time education, as we in the Radical Left believe, that should count, or whether it is internship and apprenticeships, or whether it is, as the Minister points out, where you are actually paid. But I'm a little curious about this work, as the Minister points out. What does the Minister think is the timescale for this? After all, there are young people who go on training every day and constantly, and of course would like to know how and how and when this lands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150045	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150046	I dare not set a time horizon, especially not because it is something that involves the involvement of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education. However, I would like to make the political statement that yes, it is important that it is work and not su---educated education, and that it is work which is also 30 hours a week, as we are saying today. I myself have been in dialogue it's been so good a while ago with some adult foreigners who have worked unskilled in nursing homes for a number of years and have received unskilled adult wages for it. Then they have been offered a student place which means that they just have to continue in their regular work, but after 2 years, or depending on how much merit they get, they will then get an education as a sosu-helper or sosu-assistant. But they say no to the student's place, for then their ordinary work and their ordinary shifts will no longer be regarded as work. And that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150156	Thank you, Minister. And if you want a brief comment, you have to remember to press in. But here you go, Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150203	Then I would really just like to hear from the Minister, because we in the Radical Left believe that it should be all education that counts, whether he recognizes that, as the system is now screwed up, we actually encourage people to go to the unskilled, while we actually pay tribute to taking an education and, indeed, are also in need, among other things. It is not a question of the Community's own resources, it is a question of the Community's own resources, and it is a question of the Community's own resources and of the Community's own resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150235	Our great challenge in the field of foreigners is not, of course, that too many people have unskilled jobs. I dream that many more foreigners want to take an unskilled job so that we get the employment rate up. The problem is that too many people are unemployed. It could also be that just such a rule that you actually have to have ordinary work in order to get a permanent stay could get some out of the couch and get them to seek the work that may be made up of night-time cleaning in an office building, which is not high-paid and will not normally be considered particularly attractive in the finer circles, but which, after all, will provide access to a permanent residence permit. And I'd think that's better than having a few hours on the vuc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150317	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150321	I just almost wanted to let the Minister talk. I therefore have a great deal of sympathy for the workers'ism, as I call it, which the Minister has been responsible for for many years, talking about and speaking up. I don't know if that's the wrong word to use. But I find it a little difficult to understand why it has to be problematic that you go from unskilled work to education and that it suddenly doesn't really count, just because it is su-justifiable. Or am I the one who completely misunderstands this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150408	Well, I don't think it's a problem for people to take an education. That's just good. After all, both this and previous governments have pursued an educational policy aimed at getting as many young people as possible to take a qualification as possible. So that's just good. What we're just discussing is the rules for obtaining permanent residence permits. And there I just think it is fair that, before you get full access to the welfare fund for the rest of your life, which is what you get with a permanent residence permit, unless you commit serious crime and are expelled, you have not only pulled out of the box, but you have also just contributed a little, that is, before you get full access to it. It's just such a common point of view. It is by no means an anti-educational position. It's simple: Do your duty, and demand your right. And there I just think that part of the duty is that you have contributed a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150455	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150456	[Sound emission]... hesitantly, when one uses it there reasonable consideration, for it is such an elastic concept. We once had a principle in the public sector called: Invest before it happens. Unfortunately, that is not the very guiding principle anymore. But it is also an investment to take an education. It's not just a matter of pulling the boxes. And if people take an education and then they get a job for a higher salary then they can contribute more. Well, that has been the whole philosophy towards all Danes and in our education policy. Why does it not apply to foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150545	But again I would say: I am by no means opposed to people educating themselves. It is not a punishment for not obtaining a permanent residence permit. You can just continue on your temporary residence permit, take your training as a dentist, drill in people's teeth for 4 years, and then you can get your permanent residence permit. I do not think that is so problematic. I always try to reverse the political discussion and, like imagine, what would I say to that myself? If I moved to Portugal and they said that I could not obtain a permanent residence permit in Portugal unless I had worked there for 3.5 years, would I consider it mega unfair? I wouldn't. I would think it was quite reasonable for the Portuguese to say to me: try spitting in the box before you raise from it. I think it would be quite reasonable to be exposed to that policy yourself, and I always think that is a good starting point when you adopt legislation yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150633	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. We just need to get the alcohol off, and while the Minister is just doing so, we must welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150652	The Enhedslisten proposes to include apprenticeship and internship in the calculation of the employment requirement for permanent residence. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that there must be strict conditions for permanent residence in Denmark. A permanent residence permit means that you cannot be sent out of the country. It is therefore vital that we make sure that people who have permanent residence are able to take care of themselves and can do full-time work and contribute to the community with taxes and their incomes and be self-supporting. We therefore believe that it is reasonable for foreigners to work at least 30 hours a week to demonstrate their ability and willingness to become a positive part of society. Over the years, many people have come to Denmark from the Middle East and Africa, who have acquired permanent residence and Danish citizenship without being sufficiently well integrated and without being able to give back to the society that has given them so much. As you can read annually in Danmarks Statistik's publication • Immigrants in Denmark, who appear every year in December, there are therefore too many of the people here who continue on public support, because not enough tight conditions were previously imposed. That is why the Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal, but we think that there is some music in looking at if not foreigners who are learning and thus actually going to work during their apprenticeship and thus earning their own money and paying taxes could get some of their apprenticeships counted on in the employment requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150826	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no brief comments, so there was just a request for a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150840	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Stoklund to repeat what the Minister said. I think it is nice that there is, after all, a little sympathy here. But I'm still wondering how you can have this distinction between paid internship and su-practition, because when you're in su-practition, you're kind of full-time as well. Well, you can't have a job next to you, for example. Internship as a nurse in a hospital, even if you get su, so I don't understand the distinction. How, then, can you earn a permanent stay? You can't have a job next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150918	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506150919	I can easily see that you will find some examples where it may seem a little strange, why there will be that distinction if the individual feels that in practice, although perhaps that was not what was intended, it is actually part of a standardisation somewhere, for example. as a nurse. However, I think it is a natural place to make a cut if we are to move in this direction, to say that people who go to work as part of their apprenticeship and are paid by an employer and pay taxes make an objective contribution in a different way than they do if they do not get paid on market terms and manage on market conditions, as they do in practice if they are taught. I think that is a different situation from that of receiving su, which is why I think this would be a natural cut. How it should be put right is probably a little premature for us to conclude something on, but that is the reason why we are trying to come up with it a little bit here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151019	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151020	It is, of course, particularly the classical welfare programmes, less education and training, in fact, where you are sueded in your internship, and I just think that you contribute just as much if you contribute, for example. training as a nurse or as a social worker, at least at the other end. After all, these are jobs that we need to occupy; we need hands in the public sector. So I just have to say that I do not quite understand the distinction as to how to contribute, but I would actually just like to welcome the fact that we need to have that discussion again on the basis that it should actually be a little bit easier to have a permanent stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151056	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151057	I think it is true that we are not going to get closer to each other 100 percent here, but it is probably about how to cut the cut, and I think there is a difference between whether you do something more like an ordinary labour market and getting paid and whether you receive su. This does not mean that it is not a good idea to take an education, because it is, of course, for the individual and for society, but there is nothing wrong with taking an education and then, of course, earning the right to permanent residence by then gaining a foothold in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151133	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Now there are no more brief comments. Then we shall have just sprung off, and then we shall welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151152	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution seeks to change the rules for permanent residence permits, so that apprenticeships in vocational training and internship courses are included in the assessment of the employment requirement if they are included in the workplace standards, as is the case for example. nurses and educators. In general terms, the Left believes that it is important that we create a framework and rules for permanent residence permits which impose requirements on foreigners. The proposals of the proposers suggest that they will relax the rules for obtaining permanent residence permits because they believe that training should be included in the calculation for full-time employment. This will make it easier for foreigners to obtain a residence permit. The motion for a resolution states that employment is the focal point for obtaining permanent residence permits. The Left fully agrees with this, but if we include in the calculation of the right to permanent residence permits, we risk that foreigners who take an education will be content to take training in order to obtain permanent residence permits and thus not seek further entry into the labour market. That is what we must avoid for everything in the world. The problem with foreigners in Denmark, especially those who have come as asylum seekers, is not that there are too few in education. The problem is that there are too few people in the labour market. It is the employment rate that is the major challenge. We need to make some demands on foreigners who wish to obtain a residence permit. The motion for a resolution makes it easier than to create a framework for earning a permanent residence permit. It is important that the calculation of full-time employment only starts when the alien has been given a job. It is such an indirect principle of income, because it motivates them to find work as soon as possible after their education, so that they contribute as soon as possible to the society they want to become a permanent part of at some point. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151349	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151354	Thank you very much. I often find myself in such a situation where we radically agree with the Left that people should be in employment and that education is also an important matter. That is why I could have been delighted if the rapporteur from the Left would actually consider this to be a form of business organisation, as an employment policy, as we do radically. The rapporteur may point out here that the employment rate may be low among some groups. We'd like to see that one higher too. I would like that employment rate to be higher, but why do some people who are just applying for training who are looking for these places of internship and apprenticeship in order to be able to enter the labour market and contribute to everything we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151448	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151449	Well, I don't see it as hurting anyone. I am glad that we have an amount limit which we may one day be able to put even further down. I am also pleased if we can extend the positive list so that we can reward some along that path, if they choose that path, for being in Denmark. So there's just more clues to it. But when you get here and get into the Danish labour market for the first time, that's where you start to earn up to being able to stay here permanently. If you take another route through an occupational scheme, that is fine with us too. We just don't want education to count on the residence requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151529	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we will have to get the alcohol off, and after the rapporteur of the Left it is DF's rapporteur. This is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151601	Thank you. The aim of the proposal is to change the rules for permanent residence permits so that apprenticeships and internships are included in the assessment of the employment requirement. The proposal's comments mention that the proposal is a variant of the Radical Left's proposal B 65 from December 2020 to include a full-time study in the assessment of whether the employment requirement for permanent residence permits is met. The melody in the comments is the same as in B 65 that it is unreasonable to put foreigners in a dilemma of either taking an education or remaining in unskilled work. We look at it differently. The fact is that, in order to obtain permanent residence permits, one of them is to obtain permanent residence permits. must have lived in Denmark legally for at least 8 years. In addition, you must have worked for at least 3 years and 6 months. The point is that you take an education and then work. In 8 years, you can train for 4 years and 6 months. It is almost a Master's degree and then work for 3 years and 6 months. If the Folketing adopts the proposal, we will see it as a major relaxation of foreign policy. There will certainly be foreigners who spend time taking training, including apprenticeship and internship, and then receive permanent residence permits, but who do not subsequently get into ordinary employment, and we do not want that. The Danish People's Party rejects the proposal from Enhedslisten because the requirements for obtaining permanent residence permits must be strict. For this reason, apprenticeships and internships should not count on the fulfilment of the employment requirement for permanent residence permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151743	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you, that was good. Then we welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151818	Thank you. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal here. There is no doubt that the current employment requirement has unintended consequences, as the rules maintain foreigners in an unskilled job rather than giving them an incentive to take a training course. And it is quite clear that the legislative changes that were made after the refugee crisis were not well thought out, at least they create an inappropriate incentive structure. We also agreed with the previous proposal, which went a little further than this one, and we can also support this proposal. It is quite clear that the system is not working today. I mean, like... it is easier for foreigners to obtain permanent residence permits if they have worked as a cleaning assistant for the last 3 years than if they have completed a bachelor's degree at a Danish university. This may lead to foreigners with a qualified background opting out of a Danish education because it does not help in relation to their chances of staying in the country. In the end, this could mean worse integration and greater exposure for foreigners. That is why the Socialist People's Party can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151920	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we welcome the rapporteur of the Radicals. Here you go, Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506151942	Thank you very much. Let me just start with the conclusion: the Radical Left backs this motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, yes, in fact we ourselves tabled a resolution earlier in this parliamentary year, which was just a tooth more far-reaching, because we believe that all education, which is to be regarded as a full-time study, should be able to count on when calculating the employment requirement for applications for permanent residence permits, and that it should not be just apprenticeships and internships. But I also agree that the Radical Left cannot get all its policies through. That must continue to be the majority in favour. And I had hoped, in fact, that with this rewriting of our motion for a resolution it would succeed in obtaining a majority in favour of this resolution and that the government and the Social Democrats would support it, because the Minister said precisely when we discussed the previous B proposal that he thought it was paradoxical that work in the field of vocational training did not talk to the employment requirement. But we would also like to take an outstretched hand from the government to examine the vocational training with paid internships. The reason why it is even important to discuss this and that it is on the agenda is, of course, that education must never become a punishment. And that is how it is for a group of young people in Denmark today, namely those who are here for a temporary stay and want a permanent stay. For them it is a punishment to take an education, for we are encouraging them, as it is today, to take unskilled jobs rather than to train themselves. After all, this motion for a resolution is aimed at skilled workers, something in which the Workers' Employment Council points out that if we look forward to 2030, there will be a huge shortage of highly skilled labour. For me, and for the Radical Left, this is not really a foreign policy at all; it should not be with the glasses we see here. It is youth policy, it is business policy and it is employment policy. But back to where I started: Radical Left backs this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152202	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. And then it will be the turn of the Conservative People's Party. We must welcome Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152228	Thank you very much, President. I'll be brief. After all, we have debated this on various other occasions, and our view of it is very simple: you have to give before you can enjoy. Many of the people this proposal talks about are people who have come to Denmark, and they already get free su su, they get tax-paid training etc. and so on, and then we think it is only a fair requirement to say that before you can have a permanent residence permit you must of course have worked. And in this work, internship and apprenticeship etc., which is part of an education, doesn't count. We think that is common sense. But I would say that there is one thing in which I think we might agree with Enhedslisten. Yes, just listen! Of course, we may have a slightly different approach to it, but perhaps we could go with the Enhedslisten and hear the Minister about it. It was one of those things. What we said over and over again during the negotiations on new rules on citizenship, that is, that it does not make sense to change the rules on citizenship only with new requirements, we also have to look at the rules on permanent residence permits. So perhaps we can make a joint letter to the Minister that we would like to have negotiations, although the direction in which we expect the negotiations to go is probably slightly different. In any case, we in the Conservatives very much want the negotiations, but we cannot support the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152352	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It gave rise to a brief remark. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152356	It's so exciting how long mr. Marcus Knuth and I would be in the negotiating room at the same time. I have noticed that the agreement on citizenship also contains something about permanent residence, so I actually believe that we will have those negotiations. But I'd like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth about something. You have to contribute and go to work. We agree with that. But it is also to contribute and to go to work when you go to school, especially if you are part of the labour market as part of your education. So I'd like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth: How should you take care of your 37-hour week at your place of study and then have a job next door in order to earn a permanent stay?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152440	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152441	After all, we do not see the internship, or whatever it is called, depending on the training you go on when you are on training, as a full-time job. To put it that way in a very classical old-fashioned way, you take your education and then you take a permanent job, and when you have had a permanent job in, I think, 31⁄2 years out of 4, you then live up to the employment requirement for an unlimited residence permit. So we see it very separate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152512	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is free to drink off. The next is the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, so welcome to Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152531	This motion for a resolution will grant a permanent residence permit to several foreigners in Denmark. New citizens do not want more foreigners to be equipped with a permanent residence permit. Because with an unlimited residence permit it will be considerably harder to make demands and ensure consistency for foreigners who are staying in Denmark and it will be directly harmful to our society. New citizens want to look after Denmark, and that is why we are voting against Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152607	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance immediately, so I should like to welcome Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152623	I mean, sometimes I can be annoyed that I am so deeply, deeply disagreed with Enhedslisten and Mrs Rosa Lund, and we know that when we have been in the negotiating room together we can be, and I think Rosa Lund makes many good suggestions and makes many good speeches in this area. In fact, this discussion will very quickly be such a picture of the symptom we have, namely that we cannot discuss anything without it being a foreign policy, and I fully agree with Mrs Samira Nawa. This should not be a foreign policy, it is a question of pursuing a sensible youth policy, and it is a question of tackling the interplay problems that exist. It can never be the case that society must make it unattractive for those who are here to take an education, but that is by maintaining the situation as it is now, by saying: it does not count that you are in professional practice or whatever you are, even if you contribute to the labour market in that way. I can follow some of what the Minister is saying, and that is why there are some things that may call me into question, but I would say that we in the KD will support this proposal. We hope that we can have a debate, and if the Minister stretches out his hand a little, maybe we can also four on some of our ideas. This should be an area which is not locked by some foreign policy dogmas, but which we are looking at pragmatically, both for the sake of our labour market • we need more hands and for the sake of those people who would like to contribute and would like to have a chance to get up to earn a little more, by not being stuck in unskilled work always. So from the outset we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152850	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. We need to get the alcohol off before the rapporteur goes down. Finally, we shall hear the rapporteur for the authors of the motion; that is Mrs Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506152913	Thank you. When we discussed earlier this year a proposal by Radicals that a full-time study should count when determining the employment requirement, the Minister said that if you wanted full access to Denmark, you should do your duty and demand your right. Do your duty, demand your right. I really find that hard to disagree with. One of the things that I know the Minister thought, and which we also discussed in the previous debate, is that the entry ticket by doing its duty is to be in employment. Taking an education is just the access to employment for most people in Denmark, and therefore it should also be sufficient for training to talk to when applying for permanent residence. We then had a debate about where it came out that it would not be supported by the government, but where we discussed with the Minister whether the time of internship or learning should be counted, because the Minister said earlier, when the Minister was rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, that the period of learning should be counted on when applying for permanent residence. It is clear that such a comment in the Enhedslisten cannot just be allowed to fly by. There we would like to take the Minister at his word, and that is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. I also think that the Minister himself can remember what it was like to be in education and to stand up at 9 a.m. 5 in the morning, pulling on the work clothes and then working all day on a construction site, just as I remember what it was like to work in a daycare centre with pedagogues who were part of the chartering and who were part of the workplace just like all of us and contributed just as much and worked just as hard. That is why it only makes sense that internship and apprenticeship count, because you cannot have an employment next door. Then we end up in a situation where we are pushing young people who are born and raised in Denmark, who want to be here, to take unskilled work to get the permanent residence permit, instead of getting them into the education system, which is an important entry ticket to our labour market. I also think I hear today that everyone in this way agrees that you should contribute if you are going to be in Denmark. In fact, I do not think that any of us disagree with that, but it is also to contribute when one is learning, such as learning. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. So if we agree on that, I cannot really understand that this proposal will not be supported. However, I know that I will have plenty of opportunity to stand on this platform later today and be really angry, so I would really just like to take the liberty of welcoming the Government and Social Democracy, which will now set in motion a work which can look at how learning and internship can actually count on when applying for permanent residence. In fact, I think we can allow ourselves to rejoice just a little bit today. I would also like to thank the SF and the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats for supporting this proposal. I believe that we should set in motion a general work to look at how all education can count when applying for permanent residence, but we cannot meet there today, but where we can meet today, I think that is a good thing. So thank you for that and I look forward to the further consideration of this proposal. In any case, like the Danish People's Party, I would like to keep the government up with the idea that their foreign policy should be fair and fair, and that is only fair and fair if the internship counts when you apply for permanent residence. Thank you for your consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153306	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and the good mood. There are no brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153331	The debate is open. First, we must welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153356	With the proposal we are debating today, the proposers want the government to be given a deadline before the end of 2021 for the fulfilment of the Government's ambition to move asylum procedures outside the European Union. I understand the impatience of the Danish People's Party, and I myself am impatient. I have dealt with education policy in the past. In the field of education, you can basically realise what 90 mandates in the Folketing decide. This is not always the case in the field of foreigners, and that is rarely the case when it comes to foreign policy. Here there are some issues involving other countries and their interests, and we need to have some humility in this regard, especially in a situation where we have a task to do and, at the same time, the third country must also be able to see an interest in cooperation. That is why the government cannot support setting a precise deadline for achieving this ambition, but that does not change the fact that we are working to implement the proposal to move asylum procedures to a country outside the European Union. We need to find a solution as soon as possible, because, as I have said a few times, the current asylum system is dysfunctional, we think, and not particularly humanistic, because it supports trafficking in human beings and costs a great deal of money. That is why, as you know, the Danish Parliament will have to deal with a bill a little later today, which is the first step on the way to ensuring that we have legal solid ground under our feet to establish a new asylum system, in which an asylum application in Denmark should no longer, as a starting point, lead to an entry ticket to the Danish welfare society. I have a hope that we will see a marked drop in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark once such a scheme has entered into force and has been put into place, and in this way we will also have the funds released to help more people and in a better way closer to the conflicts. But I have to make one thing clear: the proposal by the proposers to introduce a deadline does not cause the government to work more quickly or more slowly. And since it is not really important and we cannot guarantee that it can be implemented, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153629	Thank you for your ministerial speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153633	Thank you, President. And, yes, I can confirm that we are very impatient. Allow me to say that we in the Danish People's Party have been on this journey a little longer than the minister has been. I do not think I am being too drunk by saying that it was probably us who were the first to propose that Denmark should work according to what can be called the Australian model, that is to say that an extraterritorial way of dealing with refugees is to be found. That is why we are, in fact, also pleased that a legislative proposal is now being put forward which needs to be dealt with. The next item is the implementation of the legal part of the matter, as I understand it at least. Then you just lack in goose eyes the practical part. What I would like to ask the Minister is: Does the Minister think that the legal part that has now been presented one to one reflects what the Social Democratic Party back in 2018 promised its electorate with a fair and realist view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153736	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153737	Now it is just the legal part, and now I have to take care of what I say, because some people have spent a long time working on the legal part; but I think that in relation to what the questioner calls the practical part, it is after all the easiest of the two steps to do the legal part. It is based on what we have proposed before the elections in the Justice and Realism elections, i.e. to move asylum procedures outside Europe and also protection outside Europe. Yeah, I guess it's from the foreign policy program.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153821	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153822	Yeah, but the one we're not allowed to mention is usually in the detail. When I see what was presented in fair and realistic terms in relation to exceptions, i.e. who is still allowed to stay in Denmark at any given time and not to be sent to this asylum camp, then it is a much wider circle that can be exempted from the bill put forward by the Minister than what was announced to his constituents. For what was said in Justice and Realism was that it was only those where it would violate Denmark's international rights that one would not send out, but in section 29 of the bill. 2 After all, you leave it entirely discreetly up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153907	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153908	But it is true that the general rule will be that asylum procedures will be transferred outside Europe's borders, but there will also be an exception. And it is also true that justice and realism have only been pointed out where it was about the international conventions and that the draft law we are about to discuss gives the Minister the authority to extend that group. Now there are only 10 seconds left but it could, for example. We are dealing with people whom we would regard today as manifestly groundless asylum seekers and which we would therefore immediately have the opportunity to send to other countries because there is no reason for Denmark to initiate an asylum procedure on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153945	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506153948	Thank you very much. Can the Minister not see that there is something almost comical about the whole of Denmark talking about this possible reception centre in Rwanda, and the only people who do not participate in that discussion are the Social Democracy here in the Folketing? The more discussion gets hyped up, the less Social Democracy says, the more mystery it is all wrapped up in, and the more it actually benefits the story that I think Social Democracy is indirectly trying to create, namely that you are doing something, even though you may not be, but by everyone talking about it, you create that illusion. It can no longer be because of confidentiality that the Minister will not enter the debate, because you can just open any newspaper today, and then you can see that it is the most interesting topic. So does the Minister not at last owe it to put the cards on the table o tell the Danes whether there is a real dialogue going on with Rwanda about a reception centre or whether it is all just a big illusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154046	I have no interest in either comedy or mystery. I am interested in achieving what is our policy, namely a fairer asylum system. We have spent a great deal of time presenting our thoughts to governments outside Europe, and some have quite categorically rejected it and said that it is not going to happen with them. There are also some that we do not think are relevant because of the security situation, the political stability of the country or other countries, and then there is a group of countries that have not rejected it and in which we would be able to see it realised under the right conditions. That is what I have said, and it is a good handful of countries, so it means more than five and less than ten people with whom we are now trying to enter into a more concrete dialogue. Some of us have gone further than others, and I will not in any way create the impression that we just need to sign, and then it is established, because that is not where we are, but as I have also said to some media, we would like to try to keep it fairly confidential, who we are talking to and what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154151	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154152	I agree that the Minister is not trying to create comedy here, and it was not meant that way either, but I do not agree that the Minister is not trying to create mystery, because by nothing to say and get all the rest of Denmark except the Social Democratic Party to talk about the reception centre you are creating mystery. But since I do not even want to say that the cat is out of the sack of all talking about Rwanda, is there any confidentiality anymore, can the Minister not just say yes or no to whether there is a real dialogue going on with Rwanda about a reception centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154223	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154224	A real dialogue is under way with a good handful of countries. It is also true that the Minister for Development and I went to Rwanda last week and had a dialogue with ministers from the Rwandan Government. It is also true that we have made some political agreements, and it is also true that one of the two political agreements is about asylum and refugee policy cooperation, and that in that agreement we have stressed that this is part of the Danish Government's policy, but that does not mean that the Rwandan Government has said that it is also something they will necessarily achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154258	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154302	Thank you. Yes, it is a cozy cousin, the minister and the Danish government have made themselves friends in Rwanda, we can see. But leave it alone. We'll get back to that. I have not quite understood the reason for saying no to the Danish People's Party's proposal here. This is a little because I read, and I only have it from the newspapers, the agreement that has been reached, that is to say, the objective of the Danish Government and now I do not know how binding it is and how binding it is; we also return to the fact that asylum is sought in Denmark and then you are sent to Rwanda. That is not what this proposal is all about, but it was after all the fact that asylum is sought at the centre in question that was in the Social Democratic Elections, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154403	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154404	I think sir... Jens Rohde is wrong. At no time have we had the view that we should be able to go and knock on the door of the reception centre in a third country and seek asylum. There are good reasons why some years ago Denmark shut down embassy applications, so that you could knock on the door of a Danish embassy and apply for asylum in Denmark. It was simply because the number of asylum applications would be exorbitantly high. But the hypocrisy of that decision is that they say: You must not knock at the door of the Danish embassy in Cairo or elsewhere; you must board the boats of the smugglers and get safely across the Mediterranean and fight your way up through Europe, and if you come to Sandholm in North Zealand, we would like to make lawyers and interpreters available and perhaps a welfare state afterwards if you need asylum. This is the hypocrisy and dysfunction of the international asylum system that we are trying to put an end to with our thoughts on a new asylum system, which I think is described quite well in this motion for a resolution. It's not that we disagree with it. That's the only thing about committing to the mast and saying it has to be realized this year. We cannot, of course, for good reason, because there are two to tango, and there are also some on the other side of the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154512	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154513	Well, I don't know what's hypocrisy and what's not hypocrisy. Well, we all know this is hard. I just do not quite understand the logic of having to go on board these human smuggling boats, fighting all the way up Europe, seeking asylum in Denmark, and then flying to Rwanda. I am sorry to say this, but I simply do not understand the logic of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154546	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154547	The logic is that people who know that if they apply for asylum in Denmark, they will be treated outside Europe's borders and that they will have a stay outside Europe's borders if they need protection will not go to Denmark and seek asylum, because why would they pay the smugglers thousands of dollars for a trip in a boat or a trip up the Sahara to be flown the other way anyway? This would enable us to save unimaginable amounts of resources in Denmark and to take better care of Danish society, and we would be able to use those resources to help refugees in the neighbourhood and to resettle quota refugees, whom we know need protection because they have had their asylum applications processed outside Europe's borders. That is what we are doing in the years we are taking quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154630	Thank you, and I would like to give the floor to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154634	Thank you. I am asking the Minister now because the Minister himself mentioned this and other questions have also been raised. In relation to this agreement you're trying to make with Rwanda, we can read that there are all sorts of great things about this cooperation that you want to start, but what about the back of the medal, sir? Mattias Tesfaye? In other words, Rwanda is a country that is not exactly known for respecting democratic rights. Opposition politicians disappear into thin air. What do we know about the rights of homosexuals, and what about unaccompanied refugee children? I think there are a lot of questions opening up here, sir. Minister, and I would really like to hear what the Minister thinks about Rwanda being perhaps not the most reliable country in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154723	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154724	Firstly, I would like to say that Rwanda itself wanted the agreements we have concluded to include a section on human rights and that it should also form part of future cooperation. Secondly, if Denmark has suddenly become so fine that we do not want to cooperate with countries that have human rights challenges or democratic challenges, we can shut down much of Danish foreign policy, and I think that is the wrong way to go. I believe that there is a need for more international cooperation and special cooperation with countries that have challenges with one or the other, because it is precisely in this dialogue that we meet across historical experience, political history and cultural differences and can also influence each other. So if we want to influence the rest of the world, we have to be in dialogue with the rest of the world, and fortunately in Denmark we have plenty of development policy in countries that have democratic challenges, fortunately. I would say that it was a problem if we only spent money where there were well-functioning democracies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154827	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154828	I am certainly not opposed to international cooperation. I think that's only nice. But I just have to ask again: what about the back of the medal? What is Rwanda getting out of this? So, as I hear the Minister, we must come to a third country with our fine democratic rights, and then we must park what the Minister describes as a refugee problem. You want to ask what they get out of it, other than that we somehow have to stamp a state in which opposition politicians disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154905	I would like to begin by saying that I cannot therefore confirm that we are in actual negotiations with the Rwandan Government on the establishment of a reception centre. The second thing I want to say is that it is true that we are in dialogue with the Rwandan Government on dealing with refugee and asylum challenges for both countries. We have someone, and they have someone, too. And then we have also been in dialogue with ministers who have expressed other wishes that have not attached themselves to asylum and refugee policy, for example. about how to increase tourism from Denmark to Rwanda, how to get more private investment, and how Denmark can help with technology for the green transition, and of course we are listening very carefully to all this to also pay attention to what they might have of interest in a future collaboration with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154949	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506154955	Thank you. I would like to know if the Minister thinks that a country where the President-in-Office of the Council is given 99%. The vote, where people can go to prison to voice criticism of public authorities and where refugees can be shot to make criticism of the food rations in that place, can guarantee respect for human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155020	Denmark will only reach an agreement on the transfer of asylum seekers if we are sure that human rights are respected. And such an agreement will also include an independent monitoring of compliance with the agreement, regardless of which country such an agreement will be concluded with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155044	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155045	In relation to the demands made by the Minister, the Minister then considers that these requirements are met if a country has a sitting president who gets 99%. of the votes if the country in question imprisons people for expressing public criticism of the authorities and if refugees in that country can be shot to make criticism of the food rations? Are the conditions set out by the Minister fulfilled if these things happen in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155112	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155113	After all, it is difficult to relate to the content of an agreement that has not been concluded. But before you kick Rwanda completely off the board of countries with which Denmark can cooperate, I would just like to say that it is the case that Rwanda already houses over 100,000 refugees from neighbouring countries, for example. Burundi and Congo. I myself visited some of the refugee camps just a few days ago. They are undertaking a huge task in close cooperation with the UN refugee organisation, which, moreover, has a great presence in Rwanda. So it is not a new task for Rwanda to deal with refugees. Moreover, international organisations praise Rwanda for addressing these challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155159	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Now there are no more brief comments, so we need to get the alcohol off. And then we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155221	Thank you. The Danish People's Party will require the government to have secured a reception centre outside Europe by the end of 2021. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is essential that asylum procedures should be moved outside Europe's borders. The current asylum system is not working. It is unfair and dysfunctional that it should be used for resourceful refugees and migrants, while the most vulnerable refugees remain in the vicinity of the countries from which they have fled. That is why, in 2018, we presented a comprehensive alien initiative proposing to reform the asylum system so that we have a fairer and more humane asylum system. Since the Social Democracy took over government responsibility in 2019, it has been a central objective to set up a reception centre outside Europe, and work is under way to achieve this objective. By moving asylum procedures outside Europe, we can curb the influx of asylum seekers and ensure that access to Denmark is controlled by Denmark. Finally, it will remove the incentive that causes people in the Middle East and Africa to risk their lives in their efforts to reach Europe when they put themselves into falling rubber boats in which highly paid smugglers unscrupulously send people to sea. Social democracy does not support the proposal, as we do not think it makes any sense to set such a short deadline for securing a reception centre outside Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155348	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155349	What I find so difficult about is that the Social Democrats constantly wrap up their austerity into humanism. That's absurd. We have just heard the Minister say so quite frankly that it is simply a question of stopping, that asylum seekers are coming to this country, that is to say that we need to spend time on asylum procedures, and then we will spend time on quota refugees. So you could just say that: we do not want spontaneous asylum applications in Denmark. I think New Citizens would think that was amazing. If that is what you mean, say it instead of wrapping it into everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155433	I'm sorry if I didn't make it clear enough. I actually thought that I was saying it a little bit, perhaps not quite so clearly, but I should like to say it now: we want a break with the fact that you come to Denmark and seek spontaneous asylum, because there is really no good reason for that. The possibility has to be there, but you just have to move to a reception centre and be there while you need protection. And why is that? Yes, because today, about half of those who come and seek asylum in Denmark have no basis for protection, but if they have then come to misplace their identity papers on the journey or otherwise are not so much for going back out when they are now rejected in the asylum process, then you will spend a lot of resources on housing them along the way, to lawyers and interpreters, accommodation etc. 300,000 kroner. I believe that it costs on average a year. It's money that could have been spent far better in the world. Our ambition, on the other hand, is not that this is some kind of austerity exercise. That is why I think it is actually more humane. Every time we use resources of 10,000 people in Denmark, we could have helped 600,000 people in Kenya's large refugee programme, which lacks funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155540	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155542	When bourgeois politicians brought it forward in the 1980s and 1990s, the Social Democrats, with the present Prime Minister, threw themselves over bourgeois politicians and called it banana state methods and all that. There's so much like that. But can the rapporteur please explain to me just so that we know just what kind of playing board we are on: when that asylum procedure is finished, that is, after you have taken this boat and gone up through Europe, dangerous refugee routes, and then you are flown back to Rwanda and you have your case handled there, where should you be placed afterwards if you get asylum?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155624	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155625	I have often recognized, from this platform too, that social democracy took too long to recognise many of the problems of foreign policy. There were parts of the Social Democracy who did what they could to shout back in, among others. The 1980s, but unfortunately they did not become dominant in this context. Protection must be provided in the reception centre which may be set up in whatever country it may be. That's the idea. So, those who are transferred to the reception center must also have protection there as long as they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155659	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155703	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur mention it by saying that there will be fewer problems with smugglers and the journey across the Mediterranean and the pictures that I think we have all been affected by, of boats capturing and so on. But I do not quite understand it, because you still have to go to Denmark and then be sent to the third country in question. So what exactly is it in this proposal, which I have very good to say about the Danish People's Party, I think it was the first to suggest that asylum treatment should be moved out of Europe, which should be new to the traffickers in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155743	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155744	It should be that the customer base is falling because people are beginning to realise that if they are economic migrants, it is quite hopeless to embark on the Mediterranean Sea with the danger of their own lives. If they have an asylum base, they will get better help in the neighbourhood because we are using the resources there and we are going to help far more people. That's what this is all about. It is to get help for as many people as possible, while at the same time protecting Denmark and avoiding making integration problems bigger and bigger year by year. That is why we have this desire to destroy the incentive structure in which we are willing today to risk our lives to get our feet inside Scandinavia and then to settle down here and stay here forever, which we unfortunately know too many examples of. That is the background. That is where we hope to destroy this incentive structure of the traffickers and to free up three-digit millions of dollars, which can then be spent in the neighbourhoods where the poorest refugees in the world live and where it is absolutely basic necessities that people can then be helped with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155846	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155848	I think that sounds really good, no doubt about it. But I can be in doubt whether it will be as paradise as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund says, because many of these people will not sit and look at the exceptions that are in the law and say that I may not be able to have my asylum treatment treated in Denmark under the general rule, but if I have a cousin in Denmark, if I am 17 years old, I can, or if I have paradentosis, I can simply wonder how best to get under the derogations that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155925	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506155926	It is true that the general rule is that you will be transferred to a reception centre, but it is also true that there are some exceptions. However, I have some doubts as to whether it is enough to have paradentosis, for example. I also have some doubts as to whether a cousin is considered a sufficiently close family member to be an exception. It's not like if you're under the age of 18, you can send your kids off as a spearhead for this, and then the rest of the family can follow. 'Cause then, sir... Morten Messerschmidt is right that we are on the same page. But the main rule of this proposal will be that by far, the vast majority of people, despite the exceptions, will be sent to a reception centre and have their case dealt with and protected there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160005	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. Then we need to get hold of the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160028	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we share the wonder of the proposers that the government is saying one thing and doing another. The government is far from achieving its ambition for a reception centre outside Europe. There is one step after another that we must take a position on. In a few moments, we're going to talk about the whole legal part behind it, without there being any internship in what we're talking about. The Left has asked the government several times if they are going to deliver on this election promise to set up a reception centre outside Europe, and each time we seem to have had a new explanation. The Minister has stated on several occasions that it has been difficult to get through with the plans for a reception centre, among other things. Because no country has so far really been bitten on the hook to house it. The Prime Minister has also said on several occasions that the development of a reception centre encounters obstacles in the EU. At the same time, the government has promised in their foreign policy proposals that a reception centre for asylum seekers outside Europe could be implemented by Denmark alone if there was no support for it in the EU. So here we are again. It is almost three years since the government presented their foreign policy proposals, so we would of course like to ask the Minister whether we will soon have a plan on how to establish this new asylum system, whether it is realistic and whether we can move forward with what we have been talking about for so long now. The government has done far too little to achieve its ambition to set up this reception centre where refugees can seek asylum, and this once again confirms the image that the government is not living up to the promises they made before they went to elections. Because we do not know more about the entire internship around such a reception centre, it also means that it is difficult to know what you really are dealing with. Is there even an internship in what we will be able to support? In fact, we think it is a pity because, overall, we support the very basic idea behind it. So we support this proposal for two reasons. Firstly, we would very much like to see a model for a reception centre outside Europe so that refugees can stay in a reception centre outside Europe instead of being in Denmark. Secondly, of course, we support the proposal to show that the government is not in a hurry to live up to their own electoral promises.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160258	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160301	I'm just having a little trouble figuring out what the Left really means and what the Left is against and the Left is against. For when the Left was in government, there was also much talk about this, and Inger Løjberg also toured around, and she was down at Herbert Kickl in Austria, and they talked a lot about it here, and just as soon as the Social Democrats came up with their proposals, the Left immediately began to tell you in every sentence that this was completely unrealistic and completely hopeless etc. So I actually find it a little difficult to figure out what the Left means in this question, and whether the Left is on the view that asylum is sought in the neighbourhood, because it is quite a crucial difference or whether you apply for asylum in Denmark to be transported to a nearby area and then what happens afterwards if you get asylum. What will happen to him? Is he going to Denmark or is he going to the Dadaab camp in Kenya as an example?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160404	But let me clear up the confusion with Mr. Jens Rohde. For what we have meant in the past has been an exit centre for which Austria had an agreement with Serbia at the time, and that was a track that Denmark also followed in our time, and we did not achieve it. We have not dealt with a reception centre in the past, and that is why we are really here, and I tried to express that in my speech as inquisitively as Mr. Jens Rohde is about what's the internship with such a reception center. Can you apply for asylum down there? Can you guarantee that you can't? Where should you stay if you are granted asylum? Who's going to run the center and all that? What about human rights if it is in a country where otherwise they have not been well respected? So we also have all these questions for a reception center.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160506	But it's fine. We have just been discussing this for many, many years, and at EU level we have been discussing reception centres. I remember discussing this back in the 1980s. It is true, then, that there are many issues in this regard, both legal, practical and economic, but what I am asking here is not about all these questions, but it is more about what is the position of the Left. I simply find it difficult to find out what the position of the Left, for example. Is for what to happen if you have been granted asylum. Where is he going? To Denmark or to the Dadaab camp in Kenya or another refugee camp? And where to apply for asylum? Should it be in Denmark? Or should it be in the neighborhood? Because these are two very different tracks that we are following here. So it's not just to do controversy, but it's because I just can't figure out what the Left's position is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160608	Well, we thought it was hard to relate to something we've only seen sketches from the government. But I would like to say that the Left will not support a reception centre where asylum could be sought, for example, in Rwanda, in Denmark. We will never back that up. We will support something where we can see that we are now getting rid of the business model of traffickers, so that we can help the weakest refugees in the world rather than the system we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160641	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. That's why I'd like to invite Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left on the platform. It is going a little fast now, and that is precisely because the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is the proposer, and we have to be a little flexible these days, when we have almost 24 hours a day all shops in the Danish Parliament. And to the rapporteurs, who are sitting in their office waiting for their turn, I would say that you are also welcome to be with us in the Chamber, because then things are going a little bit more gelind, and it is actually really nice to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506160903	Thank you for the floor. Today, we have an inhumane asylum system in which people smugglers earn a fortune leading thousands of refugees on dangerous routes across the Mediterranean and in which too many people lose their lives. It is simply inhumane and it should not be so. That is why we need a more humane asylum system, and the Radical Left would like to contribute to that. That is why the Radical Left would prefer that the European Union should run centres outside the European Union where asylum can be sought, so that once and for all we can stop the terrible business models of traffickers. Because we need a different asylum system. What exactly lies in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party here is somewhat unclear. It does not say how human rights are to be respected, how rules on detention or other use of force take place according to Danish standards; in other words, there is nothing about how fundamental guarantees are guaranteed, and therefore the Radical Left cannot, of course, support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161024	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments, so it is both received and understood. Then we can go back to the list of speakers and welcome Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161042	Thank you. I do not think the proposal here really makes any sense. One thing is whether we believe that there should be asylum treatment in a reception centre outside Europe, we can discuss that and what the situation would be in order to consider it at all, but to impose on the government that by the end of 2021 it should have secured a reception centre outside Europe, is in my optics reasonably absurd. In other words, such an agreement would have to be made with a country other than Denmark, and that is why, by its very nature, we cannot just decide in the Folketing that such an agreement should be in place this year. There's more to it than that. The government is in the process, it is quite clear, and it has emphasized this many times, and we are following on from the Socialist People's Party in tension. For us, the quality of an agreement is much more important than how fast it is, given that it is such a crucial element of asylum policy. So we cannot support the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161142	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161147	I am not surprised at the fact that the SF is opposed to the proposal, but it was the explanatory statement that led me to take the floor. Why does the Socialist People's Party want refugees out? I thought the whole idea was to make Denmark as multicultural as possible. So why is it that you don't just say it's a bad idea? Quite frankly, I felt that the SF was in favour of the more immigration the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161217	I cannot understand how one can get the impression that SF just seems that the more immigration the better. This is an absurd view which I do not think anyone in the Folketing has. I am addressing the specific proposal here, and we have also been open in the past to having a reception centre in a third country if it complies with specific requirements, which I would like to spend a great deal of time deepening. We also need to have a debate on this in the near future, but which is about respect for human rights, that people should be able to have conditions similar to those they might have in Denmark, etc. But I just think that the whole preface of this proposal is a little odd, and that's why I'm focusing on it. So the bigger debate is about to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161302	The basic premise is to stop the government from doing what the government has promised. You might call that absurd. It can be said that the government has so far exceled in voting against all the proposals we have put forward which require them to implement what they have promised. With regard to the fact that we should have the same conditions in the asylum camp which would then be set up in a third country as in Denmark: what is the case? Can the rapporteur clarify this a little more carefully?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161329-2	What does that mean? So, after all, it is a question of the conditions being in order to respect human rights, it is a question of making sure that no one is discriminated against on the basis of their sexuality, or that people are exposed to something problematic, it may be about what opportunities there are to get something decent to eat, what the conditions are, that is, that it is similar to the Danish conditions. We think this is absolutely central. In fact, I do not think it is true that this proposal simply imposes on the government what it has promised itself. For the government in my optics has not promised that it will find a solution in 2021, but that it is trying to find a solution that it considers appropriate. And that may take longer, and I think that is actually fair enough, because it is a difficult task.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161418	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. The Red-Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161437	Thank you. Let me start with the conclusion, which is probably not so surprising, namely that Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal from the Danish People's Party. I think that the whole basic preface of the need to set up a reception centre in a third country is completely wrong. In fact, I find it quite distasteful to think that Denmark can now buy itself from its share of responsibility for the many millions of people who are fleeing around the world, and therefore Enhedslisten simply cannot support this proposal. For us, it's not about time limits or whether there's any law that's missing. For us, it's all about the basic preface of this proposal from the Danish People's Party that you should just be able to park the responsibility for the many people who are on the run around the world somewhere else. I find that quite distasteful, and the Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the proposal, although we can have a little fun at the fact that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt continues to make proposals from the government's own foreign policy programme. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161549	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161553	That is perfectly reasonable, and on a personal level I am sorry that Mrs Rosa Lund feels that it is almost a hetz to which she is exposed by the Danish People's Party. I hope, then, that one way or another you can reorganise it in the Enhedslisten so that she doesn't have to bear that burden. What I would just like to ask her to confirm is that the proposal I have made is a request from the government to implement what was promised in the Justice and Realisation Treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161629	As I also concluded by saying, I can amuse myself that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt continues to make proposals which come from the Social Democratic Foreign Policy paper. I know it's coming from there. That is why we also knew in the Enhedsliste that the government would propose this at some point. That is what they are doing today with the debate that we are about to have, where I have a lot more technical questions. Here I just wanted to take this opportunity to say that I think the idea itself is distasteful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161656-2	Does the rapporteur think that the Social Democratic electorate who voted for the Social Democratic Party, confident that the act of justice and realism would be realized, is also enjoying themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161709-2	Well, generally speaking, I think to be honest, Morten Messerschmidt, that the Social Democratic voters rarely have fun. I have been asked the same question on a number of other motions for resolutions, such as Mr Beazley's. Morten Messerschmidt has put forward, and I have to repeat what I usually say, that I find it difficult to understand why the Social Democrats are being voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161730	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party, now having a glossy speaking chair at its disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506161751	Thank you, sir. President. Unlike Enhedslisten, we basically think that the idea of a reception centre outside Europe is an excellent idea. Changing Danish governments have aired the idea, including blue governments, but the reality has always been that there has not been a qualified country to cooperate with. Many of the countries that could be considered simply have too many problems with migration, so that asylum seekers will also be housed on behalf of Denmark. I also think that not so long ago there was a survey from Jyllands-Posten, where the only country at least when Jyllands-Posten asked who said that they might consider that was Rwanda. If we rewind the time back to 2018, when Social Democracy suddenly went to the polls that they could create a reception centre where others could not, I was genuinely happy. I have no fine feelings, because if it is the case that social democracy can implement a reception centre outside Europe where others cannot, it is just a bravo for social democracy. But the last three years have been a bit of a disappointment. We have repeatedly asked the government: where are the results, is there anything concrete? We have not been able to get any kind of answer. Right now, the whole of Denmark is wondering if Rwanda could be this magic country. Everyone is wondering, everyone is debating, except social democracy. We have actually succeeded in creating an illusion, including among others. The unitary list criticising the government for wanting to set up a reception centre in Rwanda, despite the fact that the government has never said that this is what they are doing. The only thing we actually know is that the Social Democrats will pick up 200 African refugees from Rwanda and fly them to Denmark, although all of Denmark has the opposite impression: half of our asylum seekers are going to Rwanda soon. If nothing else, I would like to praise the government for extremely good political spin, if it is that it is really just an air castle. If nothing else, I think it is time for the Social Democrats to put their cards on the table. Is this, in fact, a great illusion, or is the government really engaged in a concrete debate? At least I'm very, very excited. All of us here in the Folketing have been told nothing at all. We have not even received as much as a souvenir from Rwanda by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It would have been very nice. We just think that the Social Democratic Party owes it to deliver both on their electoral vows and on the many questions that we are trying to ask here in the Folketing. So we at least think that the Social Democratic Party should honour the promise they made in 2018 in fair and realistic terms, a foreign policy that brings together Denmark. That is why Conservatives support the proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162031	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162035	Well, I'm not surprised, sir. Marcus Knuth comes to that conclusion. But then I would like to hear Marcus Knuth say what demands the Conservative People's Party has on our law and order party in this country and advocate civil decency, if it still exists, makes for such a country, which is to house a reception centre. That is one question. The second is: Where does the Conservative People's Party think asylum should be sought? So this proposal, which is supported here, is asylum treatment in reception centres outside Europe. Where to receive asylum? And if you are granted asylum: where should you be placed? In other words, where should the person receiving asylum be placed? Is it in Denmark? Or is it in the Dadaab camp in Kenya? What is the conservative attitude?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162133	It is a bit like being asked over and over again what we think of Rwanda and whether it should be in Rwanda. We do not have to answer all these questions; it is not we who have chosen to set up a reception centre outside Europe. It has not been realistic. After all, it is the Social Democrats who have come to the polls on it. So all these questions, I guess, are, uh... Jens Rohde was supposed to go to the Social Democratic Party. We have just said basically that if that is possible, and if that is the case, you can put a model on the table where it is done in a proper way to repeat that word by Mr. Jens Rohde, who we can see ourselves in, we'd like to have a talk about it. But it is the Social Democrats who owe it to put their plan on the table so that we can actually dive into it and see what it is about. Right now, the only thing we know is that the Social Democrats have neither denied nor denied anything at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162223	But it is not the Social Democrats' proposal that we are considering. It is a proposal from the Danish People's Party, which the Conservative People's Party supports, and which the Conservative People's Party will not then give an answer to what kind of qualifications the country in question must have, in which there may be a reception centre. In other words, one owes it to the answer when one goes in and supports a concrete proposal here. You owe answers to where the asylum procedure is to take place or where you should be able to apply for asylum. And, in fact, we also owe answers to what will happen to the person who is granted asylum afterwards. In other words, we can agree that those who then do not get asylum are being repatriated and so on. But those who get asylum, where are they going? Are they going to the Dadaab camp in Kenya, which is built to 90,000 and currently houses 475,000 people, or are they going to Denmark? Surely you have to have an opinion on this when you support a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162320	There I simply have to correct Mr. Jens Rohde, because the proposal that we are debating right now has been put in the Chamber by the Danish People's Party, but what has been put in the Chamber is that it is the proposal from the Social Democrats that has not been delivered. So it is actually the Social Democrats' proposal that we are debating. And a reception centre outside Europe can be put together in many, many different ways, but it is the Social Democrats who have chosen to introduce it. So I hope that Mr. Jens Rohde can get some answers from the Social Democratic Party. At least we have failed Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162354	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162357	I just want to ask how you can support a proposal that you have no idea what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162406	Well, we support the overall idea of a reception centre outside Europe. The framework is in any case described, and this is what the motion for a resolution says, by the Social Democrats, and they have actually gone to the polls on it. What we just think is an electoral deception is that we have been talking about this for three years now, and nothing has happened, and suddenly, perhaps inspired by some newspaper articles, Rwanda has become a subject. We just think that the Social Democrats owe it to them to put their cards on the table. Are you in the middle of a debate or are you still standing away after three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162438	But it seems to me that you know what this is all about, but then I wonder why you can't answer Mr. Jens Rohde's question. I may now anticipate the next case, but I see that the rapporteur has been quoted as saying in a newspaper today that when you support the bill that we will be discussing in a moment, and that is following on from the motion for a resolution, it is because you feel sure that if you vote against it, the government will use the fact that you vote against it as an excuse that something that nobody believes in is not going to happen. And then I guess we're just over there where it's one big total theater that we're doing in here in the Parliament hall and that has nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162516	I have used the words myself that it is the emperor's new clothes, for it is somewhere a theater. We are discussing something that the Social Democratic Party will not confirm or deny, but, having said that, we have said that we are basically not opposed to a reception centre outside Europe if it can be done properly. We think it is quite wrong to deal with the legal basis before you actually have a specific case that you want to put on the table. But there is, of course, the right of the government to put forward a legal proposal before you actually have the country. So you take the egg before the chicken. But we're not gonna stick a stick in the wheel for the legal in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162556	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162616	Thank you, President. Current asylum legislation is both inhumane and deeply dysfunctional, it supports trafficking in human beings and it helps the few at the expense of the many. Access to asylum has attracted thousands and thousands of migrants who have neither the will nor the ability to live peacefully among us Danes, and this is the main cause of the deep damage that our society has suffered over the last 40 years. To a large extent, the current asylum legislation acts as a magnet for migrants who do not share our values, do not comply with our laws and who directly oppose our freedom, democracy and the rule of the people. This means that the damage is increasing year by year. There will be several Danish victims of criminal asylum seekers, and the bill for public support, the social services and the criminal services will remain massive. We should not continue to harm our country and support an inhumane asylum system, which is why we want to abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark, and this can be done with relatively simple legislative changes without conflicting with international obligations and conventions. The Foreign Affairs and Integration Minister's predecessor said in May 2019 that the suspension of asylum is not contrary to Denmark's obligations in relation to the UN Convention on Refugees, and the Dublin Regulation is, as you know, a voluntary arrangement for Denmark, which we can terminate at any time because of our legal reservation. It is with others only a lack of political courage and will that stands in the way of abolishing the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark. However, in February 2018, Mrs Mette Frederiksen presented her ambition to abolish spontaneous asylum and introduce a fair asylum system with reception centres and asylum treatment outside Europe. And in his speech at the opening of the Danish Parliament in 2019, the new Prime Minister promised to lead the work on a new asylum system. What we are discussing right now is a proposal from the Danish People's Party, which is a submission of what Mette Frederiksen presented to the Social Democracy in 2018. In the case of new citizens, we basically believe that an asylum centre in third countries would be a good thing, first and foremost, in order to secure the legal basis for it and also where it is possible to do so. But all other things being equal, we want to abolish the right to spontaneous asylum in Denmark. This motion for a resolution we are debating now is supported by us, and then we will be taking the same case again in a moment, when it is the government's bill on something similar that we have to deal with. But we support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162900	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why I would like to welcome Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506162919	To quote Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen: I just don't understand how you can say yes to a proposal that you have no idea what it is. Well, I'm thinking about how much time we spend in this Parliament to go down in detail with all sorts of legislative proposals and resolutions and things like that. They say: It sounds good; let's take it; so ein Ding will ich auch haben. It is simply shocking, and it simply tells us so much about where our debate on foreigners has moved, that is to say, beyond any substantive considerations about what we are doing, it just sounds great out there, and as long as you can be those who are the most hardcore. Those who are most hardcore are new citizens, but what I respect about New Citizens is that they say it quite frankly and frankly: stop it there; we don't care about conventions; we don't care about anything; it's just us who set the rules, and we don't want anyone to come to this country and those who are here to go out. It's a point of view that you can understand, while Conservatives and the Left put themselves a little bit into saying: Well, well, it has to be a qualified country. When you ask what a qualified country is, you cannot get an answer to what a qualified country is. The government has to answer that, but the government should not be responsible for the positions of the Left or the Conservatives. That's not fair. I'll ask the minister, and I'll ask Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund, when we come to their proposals, to what they think makes Rwanda qualified, and whether you feel sure that the conventions here are being observed, etc. We will achieve that, but the parties who choose to go in and support a proposal here must have considered for themselves how to apply for asylum, in other words where. Should it be in the vicinity, or should it be in Denmark? It is quite important in relation to the whole discussion, including where to go. It is a contradiction to say that we will fight people smugglers when you say: your asylum treatment must be in Denmark, and then when you come to Denmark, we will just have to have some cheap flights with Ryanair, so we can deport people down to Rwanda, and then they can be put in a camp there, and then they can wait until their asylum treatment has been completed. Who's gonna be in charge of this asylum procedure? Are Danish officials to be posted there? By what rules should this be done? Are these European rules or only Danish rules? And what are the requirements for the camps we set up down there? What kind of conditions do people have to live under, and what kind of security is that supposed to be? Because if they now have very good and fine conditions, you can count on these refugee camps to be quickly stormed. We have plenty of examples of that. And then what if you have been granted asylum? Are you going to Denmark because you have been granted asylum in Denmark, or are you going to one of the UN refugee camps? When I have mentioned the Dadaab camp, it is because the Dadaab camp is in Kenya and, like so many other camps, is crowded. It's built for 95,000 people. Today it houses 475,000 people. Is that where asylum has been granted by the Danish authorities? It can of course be said that yes, it will finally put a stop to any asylum application for Denmark. I think so, but then we have de facto renounced any refugee convention and any international responsibility to fulfil our task and stand by the right guaranteed by tragic events in Europe, namely the right to seek asylum. It's fair to have that view. That's why I have respect for New Citizens. That's what they think you should do away with, but if the rest of you mean it, say it. Then we can take it from there. Then we can get a proper discussion out of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163429	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163432	I'm sorry, sir. Jens Rohde seems to think I've gotten so disgusted and gotten so much wool in my mouth on my middle-aged days. There's a lot in it, sir. Jens Rohde says as I would like to do, and perhaps I will, when I have the floor in a moment, but there is one thing that I think Mr Rohde does. Jens Rohde will have to correct: it simply cannot be the first time he votes on a proposal he does not understand. So he has been sitting in the European Parliament for ten years with me and voting through one directive after another. Would he please clarify that point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163512-2	It does not, of course, exempt anyone from trying to find the answers you do not have when you have to deal with something that is, by the way, so important and central and which the whole of Denmark is discussing. Then you owe it to yourself, to your constituents or to others that you at least try to go in and find some answers to the questions that are rightly asked. But the only answer I get when I ask questions to V and K is that the Social Democrats have to answer that. Surely it is not the Social Democrats who have to answer what is the position of the Left and the Conservatives. That's just what I'm questioning. With regard to the fact that we do not understand the law in the European Parliament, Mr President, it must stand completely for Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt's own bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163615	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163616	No, I don't think it will. We have jointly voted on the regulation of the financial sector, on shellfish fishing, on taxation and on foreign policy matters, we had no idea what it meant, trusting that there was a Commissioner and some colleagues who had it under control. I'm pretty sure that Mr. Jens Rohde can confirm. And then I have to say that with regard to the distrust which he has, after all, shown to the Socialist Government here, it is a little paradoxical that he had more confidence in our fellow Commissioners and fellow Members of Parliament with whom we had never had a single conversation. I mean, I've had considerably more coffee with the Danish Minister for Integration than with the average EU Commissioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163702	Well, I know that sir. Morten Messerschmidt had a markedly different way of working in the European Parliament than many of us, but peace be it. But now it is just the case that, precisely because you do not have answers to the questions that are at the heart of this issue, which have so great consequences and have not even taken a position on it, I cannot understand why you are voting in favour of the proposal. It's gambling with a lot of people's fate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163732	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more comments from the rapporteurs or from other authors, and that is why we can go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506163745	Thank you, President. Denmark is not an immigrant country, and that is why it must be pointed out that the law on foreigners of 1983 is at least the biggest failure in Danish history since Scavenius. The law on foreigners of 1983, which gave everyone on the planet the right to have an asylum case dealt with in Denmark, changed Denmark by a blow from being the first birthright of the Danes, a homeland, to being an immigrant country. And since then, the parties responsible have been in charge of the Conservatives, who had the power of government, the Social Democrats, the Left and so on. The journey which not only the Social Democracy, but which we can hear both the Conservatives and the Left have been on, is certainly a journey that we in the Danish People's Party have followed with great interest. Once we were called the non-student if we were to think of things about foreign policy that did not please the Socialists. The same could be said of former Left Presidents. I remember sir. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen etc. But slowly as the disaster grew, slowly as it became more and more apparent what it meant to expose its country to immigration from the failed states of Africa and the Middle East, where an uncontrolled population surplus could freely reach our part of the world, it began to change course, and that is basically good. The very idea that those people who, for various reasons, cannot be in their own country, must be protected is, of course, sympathetic, but the idea that this protection should take place in the country where people can now be smuggled or someone else's intervention, because it is found that the level of comfort there is highest, is insane. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund said it a little in his way by comparing how many people can help in the neighbourhood with the same resources used in Denmark. But one could then turn it around and say that the Danes' duty and responsibility to ensure a fairer and more humanitarian world can never, of course, ever justify the disappearance of the Denmark that is ours. That is why it is basically a sympathetic proposal, which the Socialists launched more than three years ago in the Legal and realistic way with party chairman Mrs Mette Frederiksen on the front page. There is no doubt that this is a fair proposal. We are still waiting to see whether this is a realistic proposal. In a moment we will have the debate on the legal framework for how this can be done, and it will be Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard who speaks on behalf of the Danish People's Party there. And if, with this motion for a resolution, we are trying to impose on the government, the Socialist Government, the policy that the Social Democrats promised their electorate to pursue, let me just mention here a few parts of the legal framework that was presented in L 226 and which, at least to me, falls into the eye of something that does not accord with what the Socialists promised their electorate. First, as I also asked the Minister, there is the exception. As you know, it is in the detail that is really interesting. I know that what really separates the Danish People's Party from both the Social Democratic Party, but also many of the old ideologically founded parties, is the belief that these international conventions create a better and fairer world, etc. Peace be that we disagree on this, but when it has been said in its proposal of February 2018 that the only exceptions to the general rule that asylum seekers should be transferred to a possible third country should be the international conventions, it is remarkable that the exception provided for in Article 29 (3) of the Treaty is not to be accepted. 2, has chosen to present in its draft law amending the law on foreigners, does not mention the international conventions, but leaves it up to the Minister for Integration sitting at all times to lay down the exceptions which may exist in a completely discreet manner. Now one might well think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration thinks so sincerely • I think he is actually doing so far along the way. I do not think it is due to malicious will when so many things have not been realized yet. And that is why it may well be that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will not grant any more exceptions in § 29 (1). 2 than that which has been the Socialist proposal. The problem is that if that law is passed, then the Danish Parliament will be empowered at any time to establish the derogations, and that is a pity, because it might be that one day the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration would do something else or have to have another portfolio, and that another, who might have looked at the immigration policy differently, would have to sit with the power that the Danish Parliament has given him. And it is a pity that we do not then lay down the material framework for what these are for some exceptions that may apply. It could, for example, be done. be writing § 29, para. 2 so that the exceptions only apply where it can be said with certainty that other things would violate Denmark's existing international obligations. It is certainly an amendment that we intend to table. Then, of course, one might ask: does it not really leave it to the weird court down in Strasbourg to decide on the exceptions? Yes, it is, but the problem with what the Minister is presenting is that we are both subject to those weird judges down in Strasbourg and to a subsequent strange Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who may think something other than what the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration thinks. And I do not think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration was given the answer very clearly, because he then refers to the possibility that there may be exceptions other than those arising from international commitments, among others. Obviously the groundless procedure and the Dublin Convention, but the provisions of the Aliens Act which refer to it are not being removed. They still apply away, and that is why we cannot use the openly groundless procedure or the Dublin procedure to justify why the Minister needs a broader opt-out than what his President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, promised the Socialist electorate. You still owe it to us to answer that question. Then there is section 2, which I have really studied zealously, and I have consulted seniors and experienced politicians to find out whether we have ever seen such a provision before, namely an entry into force clause, which is left to the Minister's authority. It is the case that this law, if adopted, will not enter into force until the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration so decides. It may be that it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who sits there, but it can, of course, drag on indefinitely to that extent. The question is whether the Minister would do himself a service and the Folketing would do the matter a service if one somehow got in a clause which obliges the government to come back to Parliament after perhaps a year, if one has not been able to implement the law. I do not know what such a thing is; it may be called a sunrise clause so that instead of just having to sit and wait indefinitely for this law to come into force until the current minister has negotiated something, so that at least he can commit the Minister that if it cannot happen within one year, we will take this debate again. I understand that will be unpleasant in a year's time, because there we may be approaching a parliamentary election, where things have not really been settled down in Rwanda or where they may be, and where the rest of us will still remember this fair and perhaps not so realistic. But that is precisely why I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration should accept that invitation. There is no reason to allow this debate to end now when it is such a central element in the social democratic shift. So that will be our call. Then I understand it's annoying to be reminded time and time again of all the things you haven't delivered. I believe that we have now reached the tenth proposal, in which we ask Parliament to vote in favour of the government having to implement its promises. And it is good to see that, although there is a clear division of foreign policy between the socialist parties and what it does come about, and that the government still has its parliamentary majority in place, at least not to be able to impose its promises on the government. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that at least the vast majority of the bourgeois parties agree that it would be timely if the government did what it had promised. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506164717	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. That brings us to the end of the debate because no one else has asked to speak. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506164739	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Well, I was the one who was too quick). The Minister comes last when it is a bill, because it is the Minister who has delivered all the arguments in advance that can then be commented on as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506164829	If the Minister insisted on speaking first, I can say that it was probably one of the same things we wanted to talk about, but okay. This bill proposes to secure the legal basis to enable Denmark to transfer asylum seekers to countries outside Europe where accommodation and asylum treatment can take place. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is absolutely essential that we have a new asylum system that is more humane, fair and realistic than the current asylum system, and we want to make sure that in the future we avoid new migrant and refugee crises that Denmark and the rest of Europe experienced in 2015. The draft law ensures that those who are transferred to a country outside Europe are treated properly and in accordance with our international obligations. Asylum seekers granted asylum will be protected in the third country where they are accommodated. In addition, it is also the third country that houses asylum seekers who should help to send asylum seekers who are refused asylum. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506164926	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. No, there's three no, there's six. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506164936	After all, there are a lot of unanswered questions in relation to this piece of legislation and any reception center on which the Social Democratic Party voted in 2018. What I do not understand is that it is also a bit of the chicken and the egg principle, why you want to have it legally in place, when it is such that you cannot even confirm or deny whether there is a real discussion at all that is approaching something that is just a little realistic. We'd rather have seen that you took realism before you took the law. But it's what it is. But sir... Rasmus Stoklund guarantees me that if you set up a reception centre as described here, a local asylum seeker in that country, where the reception centre is, can go knocking on the door and also be included as one of the asylum seekers? Because that will be a jumping point for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165031	To take the last first, if it's a jumping point: No, you can't. The idea is not to be able to go to the reception centre wherever it is possible to establish it and seek asylum there. It's similar to what it used to be like. I do not remember when exactly it was, but it was at the beginning of the 00s when until then, as far as I remember, it was possible to apply for asylum at the embassies, and it was a bit of the same reason that it was abolished. It was to avoid that there would be an incalculable number of asylum seekers who would have the right to come to Denmark. That's why you can't do it. To the first part of Mr. I would like to say that Marcus Knuth's question is of course about some kind of due diligence. It is also a question of being ready if we manage to reach an agreement with a country, so that we do not have to sit in those negotiations and say that we should now go straight home and see if there can be support in the Folketing. On the one hand, it is a question of preparing the law on foreigners with the technical changes that are necessary and, on the other hand, of being able to say in a negotiating situation that there is support here. We are, in fact, ready to implement our agreement if we can get support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165142	Thank you. I am pleased to have the first one confirmed in particular, not least here by the rapporteur on the platform. That was also the impression I had, but it's good to be sure. So another question: will the government continue with this bill, if you find a receiving country, have a majority here in the Folketing, or will this bill give the government the power to establish a reception centre without a majority in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165210	It is always the case that if there is a majority in the Folketing that decides on something, then a government cannot implement it. If the government succeeds in making an agreement on a reception centre, it might well be that there were some things that had to be adjusted to, some minor legislative changes in the bill we are now dealing with • things that had to be adjusted for practical reasons, and there again it is also the Folketing that has hand and neck over it. But it is always the case that there is none over the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165242	The next one is sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165244	I think that section 2 of the bill here calls for a special interest. The fact that there is no time for the law to enter into force, but only leaves it to the Minister means that a majority in the Folketing may possibly be able to adopt this law, and in three years' time, in five years' time, in ten years' time it has not entered into force. But even then, the Minister will be able to say that this is the case. I think most people don't see that as the smartest way to set things up. That's why I'd like to know if you don't mind, sir. Rasmus Stoklund could agree with the proposal I made just now that such a kind of arrangement should be made, not a sunset clause, but a sunrise clause in which, after 1 year, the Minister is obliged to come back to Parliament and explain why the law has not yet entered into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165337-2	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is right in saying that this is, in principle, a law that must lie in a drawer until it is possible to establish a reception centre. If it is never possible to establish a reception centre, it is never taken up by the drawer, and then it does not really matter, because then nothing has changed. If it were supposed to concern the Danish Parliament in x number of years, there is nothing wrong with it being removed again. However, the objective is not a situation in which it should not be applied. In relation to that, with a time clause, as Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt asks, has the Minister promised that within a year you would want to be much wiser. That's what he said on other occasions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165422	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165424	But what do you have to lose by giving me an undertaking? If you expect things to be in place in a year's time, why can't the Social Democrat rapporteur just give me an assurance that if, within a year of the third reading, you have not been able to bring the law into force, you will return to the Folketing and consult and explain why? That should be pretty straightforward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165450	Because it's a law that doesn't make any difference. It doesn't destroy or change anything if it's in a drawer. I'm quite comfortable with that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and other good colleagues in this Chamber will certainly call the government and the Social Democratic Party for questions, motions for resolutions and other matters, if it should not have been applied within the next year. I doubt it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt forgets it, and there will probably be a basis for discussing it on a lot of future occasions if it should go to failure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165523	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165525	Well, I just have so many questions. Maybe I should stick to one thing that I think somehow seems like a paradox. It is the fact that you are effectively outsourcing your decision-making power to a country which has no particular stability, which does not have much transparency, and when you read about Paul Kagame, you can have your doubts as to whether he is to be trusted. What is the attractive thing about outsourcing all your decision-making power to another government power? We've seen the results in relation to Erdogan. Because Erdogan has to deal with our refugees, we are in a situation where we are unable or unwilling to take the necessary political stand with Erdogan in Turkey. We must be careful, because he is the one who is out of control, because imagine if he suddenly sent millions of refugees to Europe. Is it not really the same thing you risk here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165641	Firstly, there is no agreement to create a reception centre with any countries, including Rwanda right now. So, in the first place, so that it does not sound like I am buying the premise that there is an agreement with Rwanda, I would just like to say that. To the second part, I would like to say that I do not think it is so clear. It is bilateral cooperation that we have a goal of entering into with another country. That is not the same as outsourcing decision-making power. It is an equal cooperation that must be concluded with another country, where there must be some benefits in it for that country, and there must be some benefits in it for us. The advantage for us will be a reception centre, it will be a contribution to a fairer asylum system that is more sustainable and how much more of the world's poorest and needy will be able to get help compared to today, where we spend incredibly many resources on very few people, and at the same time it will reduce immigration to Denmark. But at the same time, of course, there must also be something in it for the country with which we had to conclude an agreement, and bilateral cooperation does not seem to me to be enough to reduce the possibility of contracting out its decision-making power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165744	Well, it's all a big bluff. But let's see. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund said that this should prevent us from facing the same situation as we were in 2015. What is it in this that should prevent it? The government itself writes in the bill that there is respect for the Convention on Human Rights, and it says, of course, that there is no collective expulsion of foreigners, and the situation we faced in 2015 would have been necessary. Individual circumstances must always be taken into account and the person concerned has the right to put forward his arguments in an individual case against being transferred to another country. So what exactly is it in this bill that should be able to prevent the situation we had in 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165841	Whether it is a very large number of people as it was in 2015, or a very small number of people who are coming, the treatment is the same, and the treatment is that there must be an initial procedure in Denmark, where it is first assessed by the Foreigners' Authority, whether there is a basis for the asylumant to be sent to this reception centre. If this is assessed, the case goes to the Refugee Board, which is an independent body, and then the judge decides whether it is right that they can be sent to the reception centre, and then you jump on a plane and go to the place where we must succeed in creating a reception centre. There are some exceptions to the rule • someone who is personally persecuted, someone who is seriously ill. It is clear from the draft law that there are some exceptions, but the general rule will be that people who come and seek asylum in Denmark will get the initial treatment here, and then they will be transferred to the reception centre, and then they will have their asylum stay there and get their asylum treatment further there to the extent necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165944	Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506165948	I have some doubts as to whether we should take the floor and ask and take this seriously, because it is an interesting legislative proposal that regulates something that does not exist, i.e. a reception centre abroad that does not exist. Does the government have any other considerations about making legislative proposals to resolve issues and regulate issues that do not exist? I feel set aside for such youth policy work when you sat there and discussed who has ownership of the moon and such things. It is not, of course, because I do not share the vision; it is just a little bit in terms of respect for the work of the Danish Parliament that there are also real problems that can be solved by legislation. Here we are making some legislation, and even if we adopt it, it does not change reality. Could one set a 50-year limit or a 10-year limit and say that if not what the law regulates exists in 10 years, then the law will fall away again? I also ask, of course, because the rapporteur himself said that once you have a bilateral agreement, there will certainly be things that need to be adjusted in the legislation. So we have legislation that regulates something that does not exist, and the rapporteur himself says that if it exists, we must certainly regulate the legislation. And that has nothing to do with foreign policy, it is simply to reduce the Folketing to a kindergarten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170111	First of all, I recognise that I have heard people from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's previous party expressed that you have had a vision of this reception center. However, when the government joined and then opened the drawers it began to describe the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration earlier and look at what was in the drawers of the Minister's new office, there was no legal clarification as to whether this could be possible within the framework of the conventions and whether it could be legally possible to amend Danish law on foreigners so that a reception centre could be established. Then we started to do this legal clarification work and what has also been set aside for the legislative proposal that is here, in other words how such a model could be put together in practice. I think this is a natural expression of due diligence when you have talks with other countries about whether they want to house a reception centre and then you can say to them: we have taken into account that we are not wasting your time with these negotiations, because we have taken into account that this is possible in our own legislation and there is support for it in our own Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170218	Well, I respect the fact that you should not waste other countries' time, but that should not be an excuse for wasting parliamentary time. We now have a legislative process going on about something that must regulate something that does not exist. I understand that the only factual argument is that when you sit out bilaterally in some African countries and convince them that they should be a reception centre, you have to be sure that there is support. This could be achieved in all kinds of other ways. It is fine with a legal cover and fine with a political agreement, but not to ask our queen to sign a piece of legislation that may never be used. And this has nothing to do with alien politics; it has something to do with reducing this room to a theatre room. You can look at the rapporteurs, and I will come back to them in a moment, that is to say some of those who support this bill, that they are doing so on the sole grounds that if they voted against, they would be blamed for the fact that this is not going to happen. So it is the chicken and the egg discussion. It's kind of just my business here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170323	Well, it's got to stand for sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's own bill that he thinks it's something to reduce something to a theatre room, and that this is wasting Parliament's time. I certainly do not think so. I believe, as I said, that this is a matter of due diligence, and I also believe that it is a matter of substance to adopt this legislation. And it is not only for it to be used in the negotiations that you have with other countries, it is also because you have to be clear in a situation where you have to manage to reach an agreement so that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration could be able to press the button figuratively speaking and start issuing the orders that were needed to make practical changes to our asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170402	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170405	Thank you. - Sir... Rasmus Stoklund understand that it is a little bit difficult or at least difficult for the rest of us to take a position on a bill on a reception centre in a third country when we do not know where that third country is? So is it a country in which human rights are respected? Is it a country where unaccompanied refugee children are properly treated? Is it a country where asylum seekers are properly treated? It is a little difficult for the rest of us to take a position on this when we have no idea in which country this is going to take place, and that is also pointed out in several of the hearings. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Stoklund is not well aware that you put the Danish Parliament in a rather difficult situation with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170451	I think it is crucial in this respect that an agreement with a country should only be reached if it is absolutely certain that all the issues raised by Mrs Lund are respected, so that the rights oflgbt+ are respected, that there is no violation of human rights and that we can respect our international obligations and so on. Because it is not the case that we outsource that part and say that somebody else must take care of it and then close our eyes and turn away from it. After all, it is Denmark's responsibility that these things take place in an orderly way and in a proper way towards the people whom we must then provide protection, as we do today, but then just in another country. So in this way it is still Denmark's responsibility, and on that basis there is, in my view, nothing to be so worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170547	I now think there is much to be worried about, I must say. Now Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that part of the responsibility we do not outsource, but we outsource the part of the responsibility that is Denmark and that is our responsibility internationally. Denmark is a country located in northern Europe. We take very, very few refugees; there are very, very few asylum seekers who come to Denmark at all. So I don't see the need to outsource any of the assignment, but that disagreement is known. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund on something that several hearings also point to: who is going to be in charge of this asylum treatment? Are the Danish authorities? Is it the recipient country? Is that the Red Cross? Is that the D.A.? I have almost no longer the imagination to imagine what social democracy can do with misfortunes in foreign policy, which is why I would like a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170640	But first of all there must be the initial screening, which is about whether there is any basis at all for it to be transferred to a reception centre, because there will be some exceptions where it is not possible to do so. That's where it's at the Aliens' Agency and the Refugee Board. Then you have to consider how this will be done once you have established the reception centre, if you have done so. Then you have to think about how it can be done smartly, because it may be that the consequence of this will be that the number of people who pay a human smuggler in expensive sentences and risk their lives to come to Europe and then choose to seek asylum in Denmark will be incredibly low, and that therefore there will be other ways than necessarily a traditional asylum treatment that will be the basis for a stay in the reception centre. It will simply be a temporary residence permit or something which can be issued relatively simply because it will be so few because people will stop doing so. Instead, we can get to where we can spend a three-digit million dollars to help those in need in the world who have no chance of coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170751	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170754	After all, we have an international asylum system which is actually based on the fact that when there are people fleeing from war, all countries in the world must also be able to help take them in and deal with their asylum case. I simply cannot understand why the rapporteur believes that Denmark should outsource that responsibility to a poor African country. We are relatively well-run, both on the economy and on the location, in that we do not lift a great deal of responsibility globally for the refugee situation there is. How can the rapporteur even justify sinking to such a low and low level that it is necessary to outsource the little bit we are already doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170841	I do not recognise that we are sinking to a low level. In fact, I believe that if you are to put it a little mercantile, you will have more humanism for the money in this way. If we can spend the money we spend today on a small number of people here in Denmark in the world on those people who have no chance of getting here, then we can help far more. More than half of those seeking asylum in Denmark do not have an asylum base, and many of them come on their way to Denmark to misplace their ID papers and other documents and are therefore harder to get to travel out again, and in the meantime we have to house them and pay for board and lodging and spend money on police, interpreters, lawyers and everything else. The money spent on people who do not have an asylum base could have been spent on people in need. I think that is a much more humanistic perspective, that is to say to reduce the problems of integration at home, to spend less money on people who do not have a need for protection, and to spend more money in the world on people who have a need for protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506170940	Honestly, I think that's a violent strawman. If the government is interested in getting more money to help people in need out in the world, you can just come to the Enhedslisten. We would very much like to help raise development aid with you, that is no problem, and that is something that needs to be done. So you can do that and start to tackle it, but when we talk about lifting responsibility for asylum and also having people present, Denmark will be the only European country doing it in this way. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that it would be a completely extraordinary one-off in a European context to start doing so here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171016	Yeah, that's right. In this context, it seems that we are a pioneer country if we succeed in doing so. But now we have to see if we succeed in doing so, and I still do not think we have anything to be ashamed of. So, we are one of the few countries in the world that meets the UN's objectives of spending on development aid, and we have no ambition that this should be some sort of austerity exercise. That's not what this is about. This is about helping more people, and we used the example that every time we house 10,000 people in Denmark, many of whom do not have a need for protection at all, we could have helped 600,000 people in the UN refugee programme in Kenya, who lack funding and where some of the world's poorest people lack basic necessities. But for some reason they do not have the same attention in certain political circles, and I do not know why.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171059	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171102	Thank you. I think this bill has been put forward to give the impression that we are going to do everything we can to set up such a reception centre, and we are all going to jump into it with both legs when two ministers go to Rwanda last week and get up to this bill so that we can really discuss for and against Rwanda. After all, the inhumane nature of the asylum system we have today does not end with this bill, namely that smugglers earn huge sums of money because too many people travel across the Mediterranean and lose their lives in this regard. That is what is really inhumane, and what we are all strongly opposed to, but which is not changed by this, because it is still a prerequisite for knocking on the door in Denmark in order to be able to have your case dealt with. I would therefore like to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that the draft law here says that, if an agreement is reached with a third country, it can be expected that further rules will have to be laid down afterwards, and if it is not a slightly crazy order, that some kind of pseudo-legislative proposal will now be made here before an agreement with a country has been reached, but that the agreement should be made first and then the framework for it should be established.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171216	I can confirm the last part, i.e. not that it is crazy, but that it is true that there may be a need for further adjustments to the past, and that is after all before in other legislation here in the Folketing. At any rate, I have helped to vote through this on a number of occasions, even though I have only been here for two years, that is to say, that laws are being amended because there are some things that change and they therefore need to be adjusted to, and that may also be relevant in this context. But that does not mean, of course, that what to say is the whole foundation of this legislation and the whole overall part of it, which is about preparing our legislation for a fundamental new way of conducting asylum policy, is not worth the effort that is being made in the Chamber today and in the legislative work that is now to be undertaken and is now also prepared in the official work. I think that is quite relevant, so I cannot see the problem in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171313	However, the rapporteur thus confirms that this is a pseudo-legislative proposal when he confirms that, if you enter into an agreement with a third country, you must also have a new legislative proposal and then also have to deal with some rules. Then we might as well set it all at that time, when we know it, and know what human rights guarantees there are. So I would like to ask whether we should not just pack things up for today and go home, and then we can take a position when it is that a possible agreement has been reached, and then we will have to look at the framework for it and what human rights guarantees can be respected, what rules on the use of force and detention and many of the other fundamental things that need to be put in place in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171352	When you adjust a corner of a law because there are some circumstances that change, it is not the same as that the whole law you adjust to is a pseudo law. So I simply do not subscribe to that logic, and that is why it is not true that I say that this is a pseudo-legislative proposal. I don't think it is. I believe that this is a relevant preparation for a basic new asylum system, where you get an initial assessment of whether you can be transferred to a reception centre here in Denmark and where you have your stay while you need protection in another country. And I think that is quite relevant, but I do not think there is anything at all strange about, if we enter into bilateral cooperation, that there may then be some circumstances that make there have to be some things that need to be adjusted. I think that is quite obvious. I mean, that's one way of doing that. be something like registering geographical areas, or whatever I, in the country that may have made an agreement with. But I do not know, and now I am guessing a little, but it is clear that there are some things you cannot know in advance until you have a final agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171447	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Now we have reached the end of the brief remarks, and so I would like to welcome Mr. Mads Fuglede from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171513	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. Sometimes you sit and think about this, that there is some kind of order in things that must seem logical, and otherwise you have such a feeling that you are selling a skin to such an extent before the bear is shot or maybe even really seen in the terrain. Overall, we think that the idea of asylum treatment in a third country is something that is interesting, but it is very difficult to relate to when there is no internship, and the Left does not feel that we are in a situation where we just want to add votes to something we do not know what is. If we're gonna go down this trail, we're gonna have to get into at least a political follow-up group and get into this process that's there. We have a large number of demands on what it might look like. We share the perspective that may lie in breaking up this human smuggling system and helping others and helping many more. We think that is very, very perspectiveful, but we find it strange that we are standing here today on such a slender basis and just like to lay the legal basis for something we have no idea what is yet. We would very much like to be presented with a concrete model, and we now think we have been very far round this reception centremanage, and we would like to have more meat on the table before we decide how we deal with the proposal that has been put forward here, and we would like to draw attention to the injustice we think it is that we cannot be presented with the very concrete ideas about what that model should look like, which perhaps two or three countries are involved, and let us get as close to the negotiations as we can, inform the Folketing properly, so that we know what kind of potential solution we are discussing. Otherwise, you feel like we're just dragged through a series of parade proposals to make it look like this talk about a reception center has some time on the ground. As to whether it has once on earth, I think it is Mr. Jens Rohde, who has said on several occasions that this is something that has been discussed in a European context for at least 40 years, and then it is something that has not been easy to solve for others before, and it sounds like a very easy low-hanging fruit, it is good in the political festivities. We look forward to getting closer to this process, so that we can see what it really is we are asked to take a position on today in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171819	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171828	After all, I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Left that we should look at these reception centres at all, but I understand the concern that is being raised that we do not even know what we are discussing here. I think that this is a very sensible approach, and I hope that the Left will not vote in favour of it from that point of view. However, I would also like to ask the rapporteur something. In other words, if it is a question of protecting some of the weakest refugees, and if it is also a question of avoiding the traffickers, then it was not an idea, for example. to increase support for the UN refugee programme, UNHCR, or increase the number of quota refugees we are going to Denmark? It is, in fact, one of the most effective things possible to do so, to hit some of the most vulnerable people and ensure that they do not go on the perilous journey and, at the same time, lift our international responsibilities. Then it was something the Left could see themselves in, because then I think we should talk about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506171923	Well, we're happy to talk about that, and we've talked about it in several rounds. We have a desire to base our asylum policy on the United Nations quota system and have set two clear targets for when we could then go into it: when asylum influx was under control and when the employment rate of those who come here was of such a nature that there was hand in hand with the cost of it. And we had a feeling that we were very close to that reality when, unfortunately, we had to hand over government power to the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172006	I would say that it is a little less interesting to only want to do something when the situation is on hold. It is also necessary to act while there is a problem, and I did not see that the previous government was particularly willing to do so. But my question now is also whether, if you go into this setting up such a reception centre, it is not very likely that it could be insanely expensive. It has to be operated, and everything has to be monitored. Well, there are a lot of things that need to be looked at. As far as I know, the few countries that have experience with it, Australia or New Zealand, have really high costs for it, so it is not also doubtful how much money would be left over?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172046	I would like to say that we had some targets for entering the quota system because expenditure is running pretty fast in this area. We are a financially responsible party, and we would like to keep our hands on that. So, of course, there is some time when you think that now is the right time to do it, and it is clear that the years when you could open a medium-sized Danish city with refugees from Syria annually, if you had not managed the asylum influx, it was obviously not portable for Denmark, so we could not go into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172122	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172125	I was pleased that the rapporteur, as I heard it, called this draft law a little like that a parade proposal, since it would probably have made more sense to conclude, if one can do so, an agreement with a third country first before any legal basis was created for it at all. That is why I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with, and the party will therefore vote in favour, that it makes the most sense to get a possible agreement in place first and then to create the basis for both human rights, rules on the use of force, detention and, in particular, the concerns raised with regard to unaccompanied children. Doesn't it make sense to make that deal first and then then create the legal basis for it instead of the pseudo-process that we are a little involved in, where you don't really know what exactly you say yes to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172215	I could then add what I did not have time to reply to Eva Flyvholm, namely that the operating costs of such a centre can also be very high. That is why our demand to take a positive view of this, as it were, is that we come closer to these negotiations and we hope that the government will set up a price-by-price group here, so that we can see what we really need to be aware of. We sat and wrote down a number of demands and what concerns we have about such a reception center, and that list quickly fills many sheets, so it's not something you just do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172254	I think there are several of us who would like to have discussions with the government on how to do this in a way that guarantees human rights and ensures rules on detention and the use of force. Therefore, the right thing to do would be to discard this bill, because then the government is obliged to call us for discussions when an agreement has been reached, if one can, with a country, and on that basis look at how we set up a real humane asylum system where it is not necessary for smugglers and others to earn a fortune from people fleeing over the Mediterranean and other terrible things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172332	There is not a special model that we have determined that there will be the right one. So this isn't going to work as the reverse order. But in politics it is the case that das Leben ist kein Ponyhof, and so it is here too. This is just not the right way to do it. We would very much like to get closer to these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172351	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to warmly welcome Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172413	We are discussing a bill to pave the legal path for one of the major electoral promises of the Social Democratic Party, namely the establishment of a reception centre outside Europe, as promised by the voters in May 2019. The draft law will enable Denmark to transfer third-country nationals and stateless persons applying for asylum in Denmark to a specific third country with a view to the admissibility of applications for asylum and possible subsequent protection in compliance with Denmark's international obligations. Last week, and it was then through the media, we could learn that the government apparently, because you can't really figure out what's going on, maybe or maybe you haven't made an agreement with Rwanda about a Danish reception centre. We still have the benefit of hearing about what the agreement is like. I have to say that I fully share the scepticism of the Left so I heard it in relation to what is going on. Why don't we hear any more? Why is it not more concrete? Then there's the thing about not selling the skin until the bear is shot, but I'd say that a bird in the hand is better than ten on the roof, and that's how we could come up with a lot of crap about this. I think it is a tiny bit too clear that there is nothing concrete, that you just want to deliver the message. But we can only hope, and I really believe that this will be a reality. There should be no doubt that the Danish People's Party, like others, has been sceptical about the Socialist proposal and that we have doubted whether it could be put into practice in the real world. It is fair enough that we are now trying to provide the legal basis in the form of this legislative proposal. So far, so good. But then we still have to see if it's all going to happen. I also think it would be very natural, and I do not really understand why it has not happened yet, that the parties have been called in so that they can have a more concrete knowledge of this. You just let it get out through the media in little bits, and then you take the proposal in the Assembly Hall. There should be no doubt that we would like as few foreigners as possible to seek asylum in Denmark and that we would very much like those who do so to be transferred quickly to a third country. The more asylum seekers we get rid of, the better it is. The bill provides the basis for transferring asylum seekers to a third country. There are a number of reservations and exceptions which I think it is difficult to avoid. However, the most important thing is that it is being run over and, for every asylum seeker who is being transferred to a reception centre somewhere in Africa or where it may be, it is a success. It is certainly not the Danish People's Party that is sticking a stick in the wheel to the government's efforts to send asylum seekers to Africa. Others may have to do that. But, of course, I would like to say now that a number of questions will be asked in committee or in debates in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, to which we so much lack answers. We also heard this from the previous proposal by the Danish People's Party, which is basically about the same thing just with a date for when it will become something. I also believe that there will be many questions in this debate, because there is a lot that we are very unsure of. It is the Foreigners' Agency where there is a complaint process to decide whether or not to go to a reception centre abroad. The refugee can then appeal to the Refugee Board, which will take the final decision. There's a whole range of relationships. If you have a family member in Denmark, you will not be sent to the reception centre. If it turns out that the refugee should nevertheless seek asylum in Denmark and thus travel across the Mediterranean, it must be assessed whether the refugee should be sent to a reception centre in e.g. North Africa. That must be the case, but it hasn't been much of a problem. I have to say, we're looking forward to hearing more about this. In fact, we would sincerely like to wish the Minister well on the further project and hope that it will succeed, because if this falls to the ground, I would say that the greatest election promise of Social Democracy will be a bluff. We hope it won't be. So there will be a very positive support from the Danish People's Party, but it also means that we need to hear something more concrete and that we expect to hear something more, perhaps behind the closed doors in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. I think the Minister owes us that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172852	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments. And I would like to know whether Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard will use her old hand to spritt off for Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF, who is now the next rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506172918	Thank you for the floor. I have a speech to make for our rapporteur, sir. Carl Valentin, who unfortunately cannot be here. The draft law presented here by the government is intended to provide for the transfer of asylum seekers to third countries with a view to asylum treatment and accommodation and subsequent protection in the third country in cases where asylum is granted. I can say very briefly that we have come to the conclusion that we do not want to give the Minister at this stage. And the reason is actually quite simple: if we just give the Minister the legal basis without counterclaims, it is very much up to him what the specific model looks like. And if such a construction is to have a chance to work at all, it must meet a wide range of minimum requirements, which the SF believes should follow the legal basis. We do not want that power to be given to the current minister or the possibly future bourgeois minister. And we are by no means sure that a minister will comply with the minimum requirements we have in the SF if they are not chiseled in stone together with the legal home. In principle, we in the SF do not object to such a model, on the contrary, if it is properly carried out, it may have some advantages. It just requires us to be absolutely sure that conditions are in order, and we are not, of course, as things stand at present. On the contrary, we have no idea who Denmark might be able to reach an agreement with, and I think that the recent debate has reflected that it is still a very flyer's thought and nothing concrete. And that is why we do not want to give the Minister carte blanche to make these changes as long as we have no idea what that will really mean. If we then one day get a concrete agreement with a third country, the SF will decide whether that is something we can see ourselves in. Three principles in particular will be crucial here. Firstly, the best interests of the child must be at the heart of the question of whether an asylum seeker or a refused asylum seeker can be sent to a third country. Secondly, the possibility of sending asylum seekers to third countries must be limited to a defined group. It could be asylum seekers whose application is manifestly unfounded; it could be if the asylum seeker has serious criminal circumstances in his past; or it could be if the asylum seeker is rejected. Thirdly, the law must make it very clear that it can only be applied if the location in a third country takes place according to Danish conditions, i.e. conditions similar to those found in the Danish exit centres, and that those conditions comply with all rights and conventions in accordance with Danish legislation and Denmark's international obligations. In any event, therefore, the Assyrian must be regarded as Denmark's responsibility even if he is in a third country. So we entirely agree with the SF that the current asylum system is unfair and that it is also unfair. due to totally biased incentives in the system. The government should just remember that the only viable alternative is a functional quota refugee scheme, so if the government is serious when they say that they want a new asylum system, they could start by accepting the 500 quota refugees to which we have traditionally committed themselves. Having said that, the SF supports the reform of the asylum system, and asylum treatment in third countries is an important part of any serious reform. However, it is also a far-reaching step, which requires a completely firm framework guaranteeing that asylum seekers receive dignified treatment, that children do not pay the price for possible mistakes made by parents, and that asylum treatment in third countries takes place exclusively for the group of asylum seekers where it is meaningful in relation to the real challenges of the asylum system. It does not make sense to send an asylum seeker who is obviously entitled to asylum to a third country only to get him back to Denmark by air when he receives his asylum. I think that the parties of the Folketing should consider this very carefully before giving the Minister these powers. Here, of course, the Minister and future ministers are given the power to make some rather significant changes that the Folketing does not want to handle, and we find that problematic, and therefore we cannot support it on the part of the SF. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173334	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a desire for short comments. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173339	Thank you. Now I know that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is a substitute today or sent to town by the SF's Foreign Affairs rapporteur, but I am still asking, and I must be referred to another member of parliament. What amazes me a little is that the SF's rapporteur says that basically there is no rejection of the idea. So, why is it a solution to anything to do with asylum in a third country, why is it not good enough that it is going on in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173409	We are saying, of course, that if people have an asylum motive, they need help, but right now we have a challenge with a lot of people sitting in our exit centres who have been rejected. So there are some wrong incentives to come to Denmark and hope for asylum, even if you do not have an asylum motive, and that is what we hope to resolve here in some way by placing the rejected people in a third country, because then it will no longer be so attractive to go up and hope that you can get asylum when you do not have an asylum motive. We need to insist that our asylum system is reserved for those who really, really have a need, we have an obligation to help, and they must, of course, have the protection they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173455	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173457	Our asylum system is reserved today for those who need it. I do not believe that anyone is fleeing to Denmark who does not need protection. I simply do not buy that premise. And I must say that I am sorry that the SF buys in on the premise that there are simply people fleeing to Denmark because... hm, where else would they be? So, does the SF really not see that it is a little bit to park the bill for a problem we are facing ourselves, namely rejected asylum seekers in some others? So I simply cannot understand how it would be fair to the asylum seekers and the third country in which the reception centre is to be located.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173535	Well, I think we just have to recognise that in our asylum centres there are people who have been rejected, and it is a real challenge that they remain there and that some of them are there for really, very many years without having an asylum motive at least according to the procedure. And that's where we think we're gonna have to do something. We should not have people coming to Denmark without an asylum motive; we simply do not have a place in our asylum system for that. We must ensure that those who need help receive the help and the protection they need, and that is why we think that this can be some sort of solution, but it requires that there are very firm, what can be said, frameworks around it, and that is what we do not think there is in this proposal, and therefore, of course, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173625	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no requests for any further brief comments, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506173646	Thank you for the floor, President. Today, we have an inhumane asylum system in which people smugglers earn money for their purses to lead thousands of refugees on dangerous routes across the Mediterranean, where many lose their lives. It is inhumane and it should not be so. That is why we need a more humane asylum system, and the Radical Left would like to contribute to that. However, with the government's own proposal, you still have to go up to Denmark and knock to get your case handled. So this does not change the fundamental inhumane nature of our asylum system. With this bill, smugglers can still run unfair business on people's escapes and make money on the misfortune of others. This injustice must be fought more than the government is proposing here. Last week two ministers were in Rwanda. This has led many of us to know what the Rwandan flag looks like. Fine pictures were taken with smiling people, and I think that this was the main purpose of the visit. We would not be told much about the agreements, because that would make us even more curious about what was in them and cause us to debate them in public. In this way, I really believe that we have fallen into the trap of the government by now discussing for and against Rwanda. Because when more people talk and debate about something you don't know, you get the impression that there is an agreement with Rwanda on the way. I and the Radical Left cannot imagine in our wildest imagination that we should have such an agreement on a centre in Rwanda, and we would strongly warn against it. The Rwandan president got 99 percent. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). We have heard stories in recent days about citizens who can go to prison to criticise public authorities; about refugees who are shot by the authorities because they criticise the food rations. It is not quite normal in a democratic country to control human rights on the contrary. Rwanda is not, of course, a country for Danish asylum treatment and storage. Rwanda's relationship with human rights is completely on the moon. That is, of course, the point of this bill: we do not know what we will accept until there is an agreement with a country if there is an agreement. It also says in the draft law that if such an agreement is concluded, a lot will have to be changed. If we do not know what we agree to, it is of course very difficult to support a legislative proposal. And it makes no sense to call it here to create the legal basis for further work, because there is no legal basis now for further work on nothing at all. Nor do you make the legal contract for the purchase of a house until you know where you are going to live, whether it is a rental, cohabitation or owner's residence, whether it is an apartment or a townhouse. That is why, of course, the legal framework is only created afterwards. There is a great deal of concern in the draft law; first of all, in relation to the human rights guarantee, which we know more about only when we know which country will conclude such an agreement. That's why the order is completely off. We should pack up our stuff and go home for the day. Then, when we come back again, it will be crucial for the Radical Left how the guarantees of human rights are guaranteed, how a third country complies with rules on detention, on the use of force according to Danish standards, and that it does not send unaccompanied minors, whom we are obliged to give a very special protection, back and forth. So we cannot legally deal with this on such a loose basis; we cannot vote in favour of it in the blind, therefore the Radical Left will vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506174126	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506174155	After all, we know from both the understanding paper and the introduction to this bill that the government's official attitude to refugee policy is that we in Denmark must have a humane and fair asylum system humane and fair. It makes it a little bit difficult for me to understand why we stand here today and deal with this bill. I don't know if anyone can explain it. I don't think sir... Rasmus Stoklund made a particularly good explanation; it may be that the Minister will give a good explanation in a moment. But I can at least explain why this bill is not humane or fair. Humanity, according to the dictionary, means showing or bearing witness to respect for man and his fundamental rights. And just means being or acting morally sound. The whole idea of people fleeing to Europe, because it is a luxury to be in Europe, seems to me to be a long way from reality. There are no people running for fun. You don't leave everything you own and have for fun. You don't leave the country where you have your family and where you grew up for fun. I don't think anyone in the whole world is actually leaving their home country because they think Denmark is funny. The Danish People's Party and a majority of parties in here made sure that is not the case. With the line we have been putting for people from outside over the past many years, you have to have a lot at stake to escape to Denmark. The trip to Europe is not something you do for fun either. People risk lives and limbs when they cross the Mediterranean in overcrowded boats via smugglers. And so not a few people die on their way to Europe. In 2019 more than 1,200 refugees died crossing the Mediterranean Sea. By comparison, only 1,700 were granted asylum in Denmark in the same year. The number of asylum seekers has been decreasing for many years in Denmark, and we have also closed asylum centres in Denmark. Yet there are still people fleeing to Europe and none of them end up in Denmark. Of course, as one of the richest countries in the world, we must take care of those people who need protection and give refugees the protection to which they are entitled. The fact that Denmark is closing asylum centres seems to me to underline how superfluous this government bill is. It is simply not necessary for us to set up a reception centre in a third country. I think the best thing would be if we could distribute all refugees equally throughout the world through the quota refugee system. In Denmark we lift a very, very small part of that burden. We just picked 200 quota refugees from Rwanda with the tweezers. Then it is difficult for us to expect other countries to take advantage of the quota refugee system. I fully agree with the whole debate we often have in this House about ending the trafficking of human beings. Nobody likes human smugglers. But the best solution to that, dear government, is to take some more quota beneficiaries. It is not to create a reception centre. Now the government wants to export refugees from Denmark to a third country. If we just take the bill itself, it is almost impossible to decide, because it is so full of holes, for example.: What do we do with unaccompanied refugee children? What are we going to do about lgbt refugees who need special protection? Why are the obligations that a third country must respect in relation to human rights not written in? What do we do if a recipient country fails to fulfil its obligations? So if we just put these refugees on the first flight to Denmark, or do they have to find another place to be, what's the solution? It is not only Enhedslisten that raises these problems. There are incredibly many consultation responses from highly qualified organisations such as Amnesty, the Institute for Human Rights, DIGNITY and the Lawyer Society, which are critical of the incredibly hollow design of the bill. One of the biggest unknowns of this proposal is what kind of third country we are talking about. And there is only one shot in the fog about which third country it should be. But I still think I have a reasonably qualified offer: it could, for example. be Rwanda, where we have picked up quota refugees and where the Minister, together with the Minister for Development, has just been on a charm ride. It has been a little difficult to find out what it was all about, but if not part of it is about the government wanting to place its reception centre there. I think that's a really bad idea, actually, no matter where that reception center is going to lie. I do not think it comes as a surprise that Enhedslisten cannot support this bill. The Minister can prepare himself for a burst of technical questions to this extremely hollow bill, which I honestly think is a little arrogant to ask the Danish Parliament to take a position on. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506174721	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the Chair is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506174750	Thank you, President. The idea of a reception centre in the neighbourhood is not new. That is why I was a little surprised to hear the offended comments that came from several Members of this House not long ago. If you look a little in the media, it turns out that the idea of a reception centre in the neighbourhood has been discussed by changing governments as far back as the 1980s when the Prime Minister was conservative and named Poul Schlüter and the Foreign Minister was Uffe Ellemann-Jensen. In fact, I found an article on this subject where Uffe Ellemann-Jensen has said: in my time we tried it. It was called a refugee initiative at the UN General Assembly to keep the refugees in their vicinity. We put forward a concrete proposal, in other words, at the United Nations, to deal with matters in the neighbourhood. But as the good former Foreign Minister concluded by saying: we talked a lot about that, but it ran into the sand, it is a difficult talk. So the idea of a reception centre in the neighbourhood has been reversed over and over again. I have also heard that Per Stig Møller has had the idea reversed. It must have been in the '00s. Now it's a little too bad that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen • Lars Løkke Rasmussen has come back, welcome back • and Mr. Jens Rohde was once very outraged that we Conservatives are basically in favour of the idea of a reception centre, for it has therefore been returned many times back from then, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Jens Rohde himself was young in the Left. Since then, I have had the impression that the idea has been reversed by changing governments and, as I said, by Per Stig Møller in the '00s; but every time, it has been realized that there has not been a qualified country that has wanted to house asylum seekers from Denmark. Most recently we were able to read in Jyllands-Posten, who has called various embassies, that apart from Rwanda there was no country that actually said it was a good idea. And that is not so surprising, as many of the countries you call yourself have major challenges with migration. I myself was in Morocco a few years ago with the Folketing, where we also aired this idea to politicians in Morocco, and they clearly said no because they themselves have great challenges. Nevertheless, the Social Democracy has gone to elections at such an exit centre. We support Conservatives as a starting point, just as it has been aired by different governments over the ages. And I feel that if the Social Democratic Party can do something that no one else has been able to do since the 1980s, then I say bravo and then we should not stand in the way of it. But it is just a little strange that after three years the Social Democratic Party has still not been able to put anything concrete on the table, even now that the whole of Denmark is talking about Rwanda as an opportunity. We also think that we should talk a little more about a specific country before we actually create the legal basis, and that is where I will give Mr Beazley. Lars Løkke Rasmussen right. We're talking about something that's fictitious right now. However, let us put it more concretely on the table before we start with the legal. But the Social Democrats, as a government, have every right to take legal action first and put it in the Chamber, and of course we should not block that. Perhaps that is also a little my answer from before to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and to Mr. Jens Rohde: So it is not us Conservatives who have to define the framework for this reception centre, on which Social Democracy has been elected, first and foremost because the framework can be shaped in a very, very wide variety of ways, and because it is the election promise of Social Democracy. If we Conservatives suddenly stand here and begin to define what the framework of the Social Democratic reception centre should be, then the whole debate will suddenly be about the framework we are trying to set up here fictitiously. It is, all things being equal, the Social Democracy that has gone to the polls at this soon legendary reception center, not us. We are basically in favour of the idea, as we have done since the 1980s, but we are very excited about whether there is in fact anything concrete; otherwise I will give Mr Beazley the floor. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is right that this has nothing to do with reality, and then it is a total waste of parliamentary time. And that would, of course, be the greatest electoral deception of social democracy in recent times. So I would actually like to quote Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard: Good luck, good luck to the Social Democratic Party. But if it turns out that it is all a bluff, then the Social Democrats are left with very little credibility. As I said, it is not us Conservatives who are going to stand by the legal basis. Conservatives support the proposal here as a starting point, although we have a great many questions for both the Minister and the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175234	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175244	Thank you so much. I am not outraged by the attitude of the Conservatives, because I kind of share the vision. I'm questioning this whole process, and Mr. Beckett does. Marcus Knuth himself, but he still comes to the conclusion that you support this. And that is where I think we are at the core of such a problem in relation to the way we talk, the way we work, the way we suggest to the people that we solve problems. Sir. Marcus Knuth and I know very well that this bill is about something that does not exist at the moment. It may exist sometime, but it does not exist at the moment. Sir. Marcus Knuth said in the previous debate, which was about exactly the same thing, and now I quote: it is quite wrong to deal with the legal basis before you have a specific case. So that's what we're doing now. So we're Conservatives must be completely crooked, and that's what I can't understand. I cannot understand when you say to the newspaper today that you feel that it is electoral fraud, and when the journalist, as it were, says it, then comes this response, which says that if you don't vote for this, the government will just go out there and use it as if it's the fault of the blue parties that it doesn't happen. And that is really what offends me; it has nothing to do with the matter in its substance, its matter; it has something to do with the fact that there is no trust in the electorate. Well, the voters are obviously too stupid to understand that Mr. Marcus Knuth won't support this because it regulates something that doesn't exist, and you'd better support it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175422	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175423	With all due respect and without being an expert in the past and in the history of Denmark in politics, both Conservatives and the Left reach, at least as far as I can read, as a starting point has been positive about the idea of an exit centre, but have always said that it is just not realistic, at least not in the short run, it provides to back up the legal basis then itself. It would be strange if we said that we support the idea, but we will not support the legal basis. We just think that it is weird to put forward a legal basis when nothing concrete has been provided. Well, neither the Left nor the Conservatives have done that since the 1980s. This legal basis could also have been laid out because, theoretically, one day a reception centre could be provided. But all these questions point to the government. They are the ones who put this on the table, but still will not say whether there is anything concrete in the water pipes, and that is the real question here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175521	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175522	Yeah, but there are so many things. I also support the idea of the Mars expeditions, and one day we may be able to use Mars, and I am in favour of that. Then we can start to consider whether we should make some legal regulation in the case we succeed in doing so. For me, it is not a foreign policy debate that I am going into; I, like myself, am going into another phenomenon. I mean, when you say that it's totally wrong to treat law before you have the case, you get the wrong idea because you're afraid you're dressed up. Sir. Marcus Knuth used in a previous debate even the expression the emperor's new clothes... these are the emperor's new clothes. And that's what Mr. Marcus Knuth saw in; I dress the emperor's new garments. Well, it's pure nudity. And it is really my appeal, that people sitting outside and following this debate think that we are currently solving the refugee problem, because we are making a law that means that when people come to Denmark, they should not be here at all, they are travelling immediately. But that is not true, and it is really my appeal, and that is where I am a little disappointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175628	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175629	Well, just as we are in favour of the basic idea of a reception centre, although we do not think it is realistic in the short term, we are also in favour of the legal. But all the other things being equal, if we block this, the Prime Minister will say: there you can see, it's the blue parties that blocked this, and that's why my big election promise didn't come to anything. It would have happened if that was how they had given us the mandate. And if it is the case that Pia Kjærsgaard is right and that this is a big bluff on the part of the Social Democratic Party, then now is the time for them to deliver. If they do not deliver, then it is, of course, that the Social Democrats are left completely undressed and with no credibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175704	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175706	But it's just a confession case, because then Mr. Cole has... Marcus Knuth wasn't behind enough in his pants to stand in his own right. Then it's because he's afraid of the PM and what the PM says. It's gonna be fine. All I have to do is correct a little misunderstanding about what Mr. Marcus Knuth suggested that I have supported it over the years. It is quite true that I think it is very sensible to have reception camps combined with illegal migration routes at the EU's external borders. And why do I think that's a good idea? I think this is a good idea because I am in favour of a common asylum policy in Europe, where we support each other and where we make a solidarity distribution. That makes sense. It is not sensible to outsource responsibility, competence and decision-making power for its own foreign policy to third countries. I've never argued for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175817	Well, then I'm sorry if I put words in Mr. Knox's mouth. Jens Rohde's mouth. I can only say that I have at least been able to read what both the Left and the Conservative Party have been in favour of. If sir... Jens Rohde then has had a different opinion, of course it is Mr. Jens Rohde case. However, in relation to the common asylum policy in the European Union, I just have to say that we basically look at it very differently. We do not think that there should be a joint redistribution of refugees in Europe. It's been tried, it didn't go well. We welcome the national measures we have, we are happy to be outside the EU's asylum policy, but that is just because we have two different political positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175857	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175859	At least in the 00s I have never heard that the Left or Conservatives would have been in favour of the proposal made by the government here that a centre be set up in a third country of dubious nature, let people come to Denmark and seek asylum, put them into a plane and deport them there and then, if they are given asylum, place them in a crowded UN refugee camp. I have never heard that in the time I was a member of the Left. I can guarantee that, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506175934	That is precisely why I am not going to stand here on the platform and try to define the framework for the social democracy initiative and what kind of vision they have on it exactly. But I can at least say that in the 1980s Mr. Mr Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is one kind of vision which at least went in this direction, and Mr Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. Per Stig Møller, whom I was in debate with the other day in P1, has also aired similar ideas. But they can be designed in many ways. What I am asking is for the Social Democrats to give their answers to exactly where they are in this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180003	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180028	The current asylum legislation is both inhumane and deeply dysfunctional. It supports trafficking in human beings, and it helps the few at the expense of the many. Access to asylum has attracted thousands and thousands of migrants who have neither the will nor the ability to live peacefully with us Danes. This is the main cause of the deep damage that our society has suffered over the past 40 years. To a large extent, the current asylum legislation acts as a magnet for migrants who do not share our values, do not comply with our laws and directly oppose our freedom, democracy and the rule of the people. This means that the damage is increasing year by year: there will be more Danish victims of criminal asylum seekers, and the bill for public support, the social services and the criminal services will remain massive. We must not continue to harm our country and support an inhumane asylum system. That is why we must, of course, abolish the right to seek spontaneous asylum in Denmark, and this can be done with relatively simple legislative changes without conflicting with international obligations and conventions. The predecessor of the Foreign Affairs Minister and the Minister for Integration said in May 2019 that an asylum freeze does not conflict with Denmark's obligations to the UN Convention on Refugees, and the Dublin Regulation is, as you know, a voluntary arrangement for Denmark, which we can terminate at any time because of our legal reservation. In other words, it is only a lack of political courage and will that stands in the way of abolishing access to seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark. In February 2018, Mrs Mette Frederiksen presented her ambition to abolish spontaneous asylum and establish a fair asylum system with reception centres and asylum treatment outside Europe, and in her speech at the opening of the Danish Parliament in 2019 the new Prime Minister promised to lead the work on a new asylum system. Now the government has put forward a legislative proposal to secure the legal basis so that it is possible to send asylum seekers to a reception centre in a third country where they have to stay while their cases are being dealt with. That is a start, but I fear that the government does not have the political courage and the will to resolve the problems from scratch. In committee we will do everything in our power to remove as many reservations as possible in new citizens. The draft law here is and can be much more a step in the right direction. It would be very difficult to explain if you were to oppose it. However, we must remove the exceptions as far as possible if that is to have an effect. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180319	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats, Mr. Jens Rohde, next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180345	Where in the world do you think you'll find a friend?/Small war child, what suits you best:/A hollow carpet?/A plywood skies?/A life jacket?/Small war child, where will you die:/Where do the bombs fall/or in open sea?/Small war child, where do you want to go?/Select for yourself. As long as we never see you again. · Henrik Nordbrandt, ·Vuggesveje ■, 2015. KD can't support the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180424	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Then Mrs Inger Løjberg has asked to speak as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180436	Basically, I support the creation of asylum centres in third countries, and I would also like to say that I am on an equal footing with others, for example. The Danish People's Party Pia Kjærsgaard has mentioned that there are a number of questions, and they will be asked by the Danish People's Party during the committee procedure. New citizens have the same thing, and I fully agree with that, so there are a lot of things that we should have bored out in this bill. The crux of the matter is, of course, whether it is possible to set up asylum centres in third countries at all, and I also admit that there is one, if I may say so, issue of temperament as to whether to put forward a legislative proposal such as this before an asylum centre or an agreement on an asylum centre in a third country is in place or whether to wait for it to be put in place. I would say, however, that if you wait, I believe that it can put the government in a worse negotiating position with some of the countries that could be involved, and I will simply not risk putting the government in a worse position than otherwise. That's why I'm gonna back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180607	Thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg. There is no wish for short remarks. Thanks for getting the platform ready. There are no more rapporteurs, so I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506180624	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, and thank you for the discussion and for the receipt of the bill, which has given rise to a little debate. Perhaps especially following the visit of the Minister for Development and my visit to Rwanda last week. So let me start by repeating what I have already said a few times. I am actually saying this in the wake of both the debate that has been here and some of the articles that have been in the Danish media. The Danish Government has not entered into an agreement with the Rwandan Government on a reception centre. I have said that before, and I would also like to repeat it here from the speaking chair of the Folketing so that it can be recorded in the Minutes. What we have agreed is what is contained in the two documents of political understanding that have already been published, and there is no secret written agreement or secret oral agreement that a reception centre should be set up. What we have agreed is to continue discussions on refugee and asylum policy, but also on development policy, investment, green conversion, tourism and many other things. Then I turn to the specific legislative proposal that has been presented here. I'd like to start with a few numbers. Between 2015 and 2020, more than 5 million asylum applications were made in EU countries over 5 million. During the same period, the estimated number of refugees and migrants who have lost their lives or have disappeared trying to reach the EU over the Mediterranean is over 17,000. The Mediterranean is today a gigantic cemetery. In Denmark, almost 40,000 asylum applications have been submitted between 2015 and 2020, and in recent years the rate of recognition in asylum cases has been determined in the first instance at around half. In other words, the rate of recognition is how much of those seeking asylum will actually be recognised that they need protection. It's in the first instance. After that, of course, there are also some who are being changed in the Refugee Board as second and last resort. At the same time, the annual average price for accommodation one rejected asylum seeker at an exit center in Denmark is DKK 300,000. to accommodate one person for one year at an exit centre. These are the figures that together tell us in the government and me that the existing asylum system has failed. But we have record low asylum rates, you might say. Isn't the problem really a bit of a solution? No, because even though we are currently experiencing record low asylum applicants in Denmark, part of the explanation for this is probably to be found in the corona situation. This is not only due to the immigration policy pursued by it here and by previous governments. I will not be surprised if, later this year, as travel restrictions and border controls are lifted through Europe, we start to see increasing numbers of asylums again. I hope, of course, that we will not get near what we were exposed to in 2015 and 2016, but it will be naive to think that we can maintain the current asylum figures, which are record low. That is why we say that we want to maintain the political position we had before the elections, which remains our position, namely that we want to break the incentive structure that characterizes the existing asylum system, which not only causes refugees but also migrants to travel through several safe countries and to move towards Denmark and against welfare societies and other countries in northern Europe. There is a reason why they do not stop in Romania and seek asylum, but that they continue to go to Germany, Denmark, Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway and other countries with more well-developed welfare systems. With this bill, the government wants to take a small but also a necessary step towards creating such an asylum system in Denmark. It is a new asylum system to help fewer people seek asylum in Denmark, fewer refugees and migrants drown in the Mediterranean, fewer people are subjected to attacks on migration routes and Danish resources are targeted at people who have a real need for protection in the neighbourhood and more refugees are thereby better protected in the neighbourhood. This does not mean that we do not want to include refugees in Danish society. We recognise that refugees may need to be moved out of the neighbourhood and settled in European countries, including Denmark; we are just in favour of this being done controlled, arranged and through the UN resettlement programme, which assesses in the neighbourhood whether people have a need for protection and, on the basis of it, selects who should come to, for example. Denmark through the quota refugee system and that Denmark will thus also have better control over immigration. That is why we are presenting this bill, which is intended to provide the overall legal basis for the future transfer of third-country nationals and stateless persons applying for asylum in Denmark to a third country with a view to the admissibility of their asylum application and possible subsequent protection in the third country. Thus, an application for asylum lodged in Denmark could no longer, as a rule, lead to a residence permit in Denmark and therefore not to an entry ticket to our welfare society. That is what the legal basis is now being created for. I fully agree with those who say that this does not mean that, if it is adopted at a third reading, it is a reality. The draft law creates the general legislative basis for the foreign authorities in Denmark to decide, following an agreement with a third country, that an asylum seeker should be transferred to a third country. It is proposed that the scheme should apply as a starting point to all third-country nationals and stateless persons seeking asylum here in Denmark. However, the proposed scheme will not apply to foreigners who are covered by EU rules on free movement, nor will foreigners who are legally resident on another basis here in Denmark be covered by such a scheme during the period during which they have the right to reside in this country. The draft law will therefore authorise the Minister in office at any time to exempt, in general terms, the groups of foreigners from the proposed scheme. In addition, the starting point will be that all asylum seekers should be transferred to a third country unless it is considered in the individual case that this would be contrary to our international obligations. We will therefore be obliged to assess the specific case before we can transfer an asylum seeker to a third country, in other words a concrete and individual assessment. The cases will be examined in two bodies, we already know them first by the Immigration Authority and then by an independent refugee board, where the asylum seeker will also be appointed a lawyer. Complaints against the decisions of the Foreigners' Board to the Refugee Board will be made automatically and with suspensory effect for e.g.: to ensure that the processing time and thus the accommodation here in Denmark are as short as possible. Of course, it is absolutely crucial that this is not something that will take many months, preferably just a few weeks. In addition to cases where the immigration authorities in Denmark have considered in the individual case that a transfer will not be possible due to our international obligations, there may be additional need to generally exempt certain foreigners from the proposed scheme. For example, it would. could be for resource reasons. I mentioned earlier that we have seen larger groups of asylum seekers from so-called apparently groundless countries in the past, where it would be more effective to return them directly to the home country without a stopover in a reception centre. I would also like to stress here today that we will not enter into an agreement with a third country on a regime if we are not sure that the asylum seekers we transfer will be treated in accordance with our international obligations. It is very important for us that it is not considered here as if we want to outsource ourselves out of moral, political or legal obligations; it is an attempt to change the architecture of the asylum system in a way in which we are actually able to help more people and where the asylum system is not abused by people who really have no protection basis and who we are spending far too much resources on dealing with today. It will be a requirement that conditions in the third country are also monitored by an independent body so that regular monitoring can be carried out to ensure that the agreement reached is in fact fully respected. Then I would like to thank the rapporteurs who have welcomed either the intentions or the proposal itself and say that I am looking forward to the further debate, and I would also like to say here at first reading that I think it is quite natural that a follow-up group should also be set up with which the government can be in closer dialogue, for the very reason that this is really only a small step, with all due respect for those who have now spent time writing this bill. Because when we did the legal analysis of what was really needed to achieve this ambition, the legal analysis concluded two things. Point 1: There was a need for legal basis in the Danish Aliens Act to do so. Point 2: It is necessary to conclude an agreement or an agreement with another country. And it is clear that if it is an internationally binding agreement, there are clear rules here in Denmark that the Folketing must of course also be involved before a government can conclude such an agreement. Therefore, this bill should be regarded as the framework which guarantees the legal basis of the Aliens Act, but also as only a first step. The Folketing also has a role to play before the government can accede to a proper agreement with a third country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181639	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. First of all, it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181645	This bill outlines the Australian model, and the Australian model is an excellent model. We in the Danish People's Party have tabled a resolution on it many times and always highlighted it in the debates. So it's a fantastic great idea, and I always get so happy when Social Democracy imitates the Danish People's Party's politics and takes over parts of it. I will only be a pity when something is missing, and there is something missing here because the Minister can make exceptions as to who should be transferred to such a reception centre abroad, and any minister can do so. That's section 29. 2 which I find very problematic. What is the point of introducing the Australian model if a future minister can make so many exceptions that the country will still be filled with asylum seekers, thereby again tempting people to set out on the Mediterranean and walk up through Europe to get to the best welfare state, namely Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181755	I would like to start by saying that there are several countries which have tried, in whole or in part, immediately, as Denmark does here: Australia, the United States. If you are interested in British politics, you may also have found that a few weeks ago the British Government presented their refugee policy proposals, which in many ways are similar in many respects to what we are also working with in the Danish Government. So I also see this as an international trend. However, I would like to say that I believe that some of the criticisms that have been made of human rights violations in some of the islands used by the Australians have been justified, and I think it is absolutely crucial for Denmark that we do not end up in a situation where this kind of relevant criticism can be raised. With regard to the exemption provisions and § 29 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv)) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v)) (iv) (v) (iv) (iv) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) It could be, for example. People whose cases are apparently groundless, whom we would like to send out quickly. It could also be that the Danish Government and the government of another country only concluded a pilot project on a limited group of asylum seekers in the first place, and there will also be a need for the law to take account of such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181903	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181905	I think it is important that what is being fenced in very, very thoroughly, because if the unhappy situation should arise sometime in the future, a radical Foreign Minister came along and I hope that will not ever happen, but if it were to be, one could imagine how this derogation would be used. After all, it requires a tough minister to be able to use it in the way that would make sense and make sense. So this legislation is just not clear enough or strong enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506181946	In the end, it is the Folketing that decides. Whoever is a minister, any parliamentary assembly will be able to meet and adopt new legislation. I would like to appeal for a little flexibility here. I would say that so far the dialogue I have had with ministers from other countries has convinced me that it is necessary to be flexible in a negotiating situation, for example. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take a decision on this matter in the near future, and if so, what steps does it intend to take to ensure that such a decision is taken by the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs? It may also be that the country with which such an agreement is made has a desire that only asylum seekers from a particular geographical area they want to be involved in laying land, and in this way I think there is a need for a little flexibility here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182037	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182040	Thank you. I hope that the Minister can see that the whole point, the whole frustration of the Danish Parliament here today, is of course about the fact that the Social Democratic Party will not put the cards on the table and say whether they are doing anything concrete, to put it very squarely. Well, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has compared this to realism in a journey to Mars, and I myself compared it to the emperor's new clothes, but of course with a little hope that the government is but since it is something that changing governments have not been able to solve for so long, the minister can not just put the cards on the table and say whether you are in real negotiations or whether this is just like Mr. Løkke Rasmussen. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said one great waste of the Danish Parliament's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182131	We are trying to strike a balance between two considerations. There is a need for a confidential space with the governments with which we are in dialogue in order to deal with this, otherwise I am afraid that we will shoot ourselves in the foot and make it impossible to realise it. That is one consideration. The second point I would like to make is that, of course, the Folketing is also involved at a reasonable level. I fully agree, and I also tried to say this at the end of my speech that we are getting there where there is also a need for the parties of the Folketing to be more closely involved, and it could be as a follow-up group, as I heard from the Left. I fully agree with that, and I think that is one of the things we should discuss with each other, perhaps in the context of the legal process here. It may be after the first reading • where we would like to lighten a little on the lid and in confidence tell us a little more about how far we have come. But I can already tell you that we are not where we just need to put the signature on a paper. We are where we have found a good handful of countries with which we are in dialogue with some we have gone somewhat further than others. And it is a list of countries that are getting shorter and shorter as some say no. But there are also still some who have not said no, and we would like to involve the Danish Parliament a little more in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182246	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182248	Well, we would certainly warmly welcome such a follow-up group. After all, we have a similar situation in Syria with the Danish children who sit down there, and there I think we actually have a very, very fine and confidentially closed working room where we are working with the government. So I am surprised that the government has not done so in this case earlier, but in that case I also hope that it will be a confidential space where we can actually gain insight into what and about something the government has actually done. I hope that the Minister can confirm that would actually be the case if we set up such a follow-up group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182324	The whole purpose of making such a follow-up group should also be to be able to tell a little more than we are able to in open parliamentary responses. The Minister for Development and I have already been summoned to the Foreign Policy Name, and there are some special rules on confidentiality, so there we have an opportunity to lighten the lid a little. But I also think it would make good sense for us to bring together a group of Foreign Affairs rapporteurs who are following this a little closer, and that is why I think it is natural to set up such a follow-up group, and it is not just to sit and show indifferent power points, it must be to get a little closer to each other, but we would also just like to appeal to us here too to have the same confidentiality that applies in many other cases, and which I think the Folketing is good at showing, because otherwise we risk simply, it falls to the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182406	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182409	Thank you. I would actually like to continue along the same lines as Mr. Marcus Knuth, because it is a little reassuring in itself that the Minister would like to bring the Folketing in, but if, or I may say more, if we manage to find a country where we can set up a reception centre, should it be approved by the Folketing, then should it go back in the Folketing? And I'm not talking about some committee or other and some confidential discussions, I'm talking about the country. Should that country return and be approved by the Folketing? It's a little unclear in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182445	After all, we want to reach a binding agreement, and if it is such an internationally binding agreement, there is a very clear framework for what a government can and cannot do, and that means, among other things, that the Folketing must be involved. So I find it difficult to imagine anything other than that the Folketing should of course be involved, and I would also like to say from here that if the Folketing does not formally have to, then it is my political position, and I still think, for the sake of good order, that we should make sure that there are at least 90 mandates to support such an agreement that will be concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182519	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182520	I mean, I think that Parliament should be formally involved, and that is why it is good tones coming from the Minister, but I just think that if you really mean it, you have to write it in the bill, just as if you really think that human rights obligations should be respected, it should also be clearer in the bill. That is why my second question is this: should human rights and human rights obligations only apply in this reception centre in the third country, that is to say, is it only there to be respected, or is it in the entire country in which the reception centre will be located? How does the government feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182554	But I would like to start by saying that if there are some things that Mrs Rosa Lund does not think are accurate, I would really like to appeal to Mrs Rosa Lund to take seriously what the rapporteur also says in her rapporteur's speech, namely to ask a series of technical questions. Because there is nothing we want to do either than to deepen it, and then we can have the answers that contribute to the report reprinted so that everyone knows what we are voting on when we sit here for the third reading one day, because we have no interest in the fact that there are issues of outstanding issues that should have been answered. That is why it is now clear from this that human rights must be respected, the Folketing must be involved, and if there are any other outstanding issues, please ask those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182637	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182639	When I hear the Minister, I just can't help thinking about Wolfgang Goethe's suffering from the young Werther from 1774. I do not know if the Minister knows it, but it is Werther who simply goes out into the world on the great adventure, and he would so like to duper the lovely Lotte and do everything he can to conquer her. And the lovely Lotte could then in this context be Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard or Pernille Vermund or Inger Løjberg. But it never succeeds, because someone comes from outside at some point, namely the man Albert ^ and says: Forget it, mate. It all ends so tragic for the young Werther. When I hear the Minister, it sounds a little like he knows he's on an impossible mission. I do not want it to end tragically for the Minister, even in relation to his ministerial post, because I personally appreciate him and think he is a good minister, even though we strongly disagree on many things. But can the Minister himself not be afraid that it is really, really deep water that the Minister is looking for, because the Minister has no answer and basically does not know what he is legislating about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182753	It is possible that we are deeply divided on many issues, perhaps particularly in the field of foreigners. But we have a common interest in good literature, I hear. And to that I would say: No, I do not consider myself on an impossible mission. But I'm absolutely embarrassed that I'm on a difficult mission. After all, it is not the Social Democratic Party that has invented this political proposal. It has, as Mr. Marcus Knuth also mentions, been part of the European discussion for many years. On the other hand, I believe that what happened in 2015 and 2016 was a wakeup call not only for peoples, but also for governments and institutions across Europe that this does not go again. Once again, where we see what happened in 2015 and 2016, the European peoples find the brake, and then they block the brake and say: this is the end; we cannot have an asylum system that can actually be used and abused for migration to the European welfare states; it simply does not work. That is why I also believe that the clock is ticking, we must come up with something new. This is our proposal, and we would never go ahead with it if we said it was impossible. But it is true that we have embarked on a task which we well know is difficult. On the other hand, we have decided to throw everything we have into trying to achieve it. This bill isn't the one that's gonna make it happen. It is a tiny thing, but it is a necessary thing in order to move one step further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182925	Thank you. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506182926	But if I were the lovely Lotte symbolized by the three women who are here, yes, it might be a little more elaborate, then if I heard everything the Minister has said here, I would be terribly disappointed and very doubtful whether the Minister is able to deliver the goods he pretends to be able to deliver, for example. that you can prevent a situation as in 2015. I am very doubtful that this proposal can be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183004	Sometimes practical reality also defines the political necessity. I simply do not think there is any way around trying to radically restructure the Danish and European asylum policies. I really don't think so. I don't think it would have been possible to realise this ten or twenty years ago, but I actually believe that the experience that some people call the Syria crisis or migration challenge, or what to call what happened in 2015 and 2016, is in us. At least it's in me. And that is what I think we are doing, in fact, as opposed to decades ago, having a realistic chance of achieving it. And it certainly should not be the case that the next time they go on the highways, we have just sat at Council meetings and talked to each other and had good coffee and walked on soft carpets and did not try to make a real change in the asylum area. At least it shouldn't be on my watch, and that's why we're throwing ourselves into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183103	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183107	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister: when, for example, the Minister: Does the Minister provide a legal framework for the purchase or lease before he has found an apartment or after he has found an apartment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183128	Thank you for the question. I do, after I have found a home, but I am glad that somebody has made a mortgage law before then, and I think that is the way to look at it. We are creating the framework for the conclusion of an internationally binding treaty, but that is only one part of achieving a reception centre. It's just the legal basis of the alien law. These are three paragraphs, you can see that we are putting forward here; it is obvious. But that is the legal basis which creates the framework in which we can reach an agreement with another country and, of course, we can discuss it, including Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says whether it is the chicken or the egg: What comes first? I wonder if if we hadn't presented this, someone would have stood there and said: 'Well, you haven't even secured legal basis.' I think so. So now we're trying to do it this way. We start by ensuring a legal basis, and then I think there is a little more backbone in me when I talk to colleagues in other countries and can say that there is a majority in the Folketing, hopefully, who backs it up. I also think it is a form of seriousness when you discuss with others that you do not tell them afterwards, when you are close to making an agreement, that you are not even sure that there is support in the Folketing for the establishment of the legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183242	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183243	But can the Minister understand that there are more of us who are a little uncertain about how, in particular, the human rights guarantees and rules for the use of force and detention are secured according to Danish standards, when it is that we know no more than this loose basis? Can the Minister understand that this raises a number of questions, which can of course only be resolved on a later occasion, and that it could therefore be relevant, like putting it together in one package, to create the guarantee that is important when it comes to human rights, the use of force and detention? These are basic things which are in the draft law, but which are somewhat unclear when we do not know more than we do now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183331	I can certainly hear from the debate that we have not been good enough to explain that this is a legal basis, that is, a framework. We cannot describe in detail how human rights are to be effectively enforced until we have the agreement to be reached with another country. I admit that we may not have been good enough to communicate. Then I would like to say two things. Paragraph 1: I will look forward to answering Mrs Lund's question, where we are going to put two points below that we are not going anywhere without being sure that human rights are being respected. Paragraph 2: The Folketing will have the opportunity to deal with the specific agreement once it has been concluded as a prerequisite for its entry into force at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183415	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183420	Thank you. Of course, I am listening very much to what is being said to the Minister, and I must say that, whether you have been a Liberal, a Radical or a Christian Democrat, I think that the support for this should be there. But I would also like to say to the Minister, and that is also what I hear, that the Minister must get this through together with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, New Citizens and Mrs Inger Løjberg. That is what I am hearing, and that is why I believe that the Minister must be very careful that we will give all the help we can, because we really want it here too. I do not think the Minister should be in any doubt about that at all. There is no controversy in it or anything, but we actually want this reception centre to be established, and I think I can speak on behalf of the colleagues I have just mentioned here. I also think that the Minister will have to deal with the objections which I have at least had, and which I also hear from others who are in relation to those derogations. I very much hope we will be able to discuss this either in committee or in the follow-up group which, according to the Minister, is to be set up and which, moreover, I think is a very good idea. But there should be no doubt that there must be a majority in order to get started on this. It is true, as the Minister also says, that 10 to 20 years ago it would be called: No, forget it! Something has happened over the years and not only has there been a migration on the motorway, but the people have also found out that the policy pursued in the past did not go at all, and now something else has to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183551	Thank you. I would also like to sign the speech that comes from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. However, I would like to say that I am also listening very carefully to what the rapporteurs said here from the platform, and I have not completely given up on either the Radical Left or the SF in this context. At any rate, I will try to screw up the charm in the future, because I am told that the two parties share at least in part or in whole the analysis that there are some challenges in the existing asylum system. And then I have several times with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's party colleague, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, discussed exactly this with the exceptions. We're like government not there we're a minority government where we say: Take it or leave it! Sorry, take it all, or leave it, if you say so in Danish. We are fully in favour of finding other mandates to implement our policy, which is why we are also willing to take part in a discussion. I am just saying that, with the derogations, I think it is actually sensible, and I would like to argue that I think it is sensible, for example. is sensible to say that the people who come here and who we can assess have a clearly groundless need for an asylum application, we do not need to send to a third country to have their asylum application examined if we already have the opportunity to send them to Russia or Morocco or Georgia, or where that is what we think it is apparently groundless.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183716	I think the wording must be: everything or nothing! It could be. Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard for another round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183721	Now, in fact, I was trying to narrow down the reasonable majority for the Minister, and then I think that the Minister should not turn the charm on too much against the SF and the Radical Left, because there I hear some things that are certainly not very appetising for the Danish People's Party. It is, of course, up to the Minister, but we must also be careful that we do not need to be so demanding that the pants do not last, because this is a difficult proposal and a delicate proposal in every way. If it is to work, then I am inclined to believe that all the provisions on human rights, on the one hand, and on the other, must be taken into account. But okay, it's a discussion that we'll get to later. It will be a very, very exciting process. Last question: when does the Minister expect this proposal? Should it be before the summer break if it is to work or how can it be achieved? What is the Minister counting on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183819	My ambition is that it's third-read in this assembly. I have some doubts as to whether we have had our graduation debate postponed because of corona, but doesn't it usually lie around constitutional day? In fact, I have some doubts about that. But it tells us that I am extremely interested in a thorough committee procedure, that we are taking consultations and that we are doing everything we can to ensure that this happens as thoroughly as possible, but also that we have the third reading in this Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183848	Thank you, Minister. It is 26 May that is the final debate. The immediate last brief remark is to Mads Birded from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183859	This is not as much a question as it is a call. I hope that now that the Minister is in favour of the idea of setting up a follow-up group, he will convene the follow-up group before the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183915	Copy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183927	Did Mr. Mads Birded another question? No. Thank you to the Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506183941	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184000	This draft law proposes, among other things: to introduce a new model of municipal guidance obligation on repatriation to strengthen and target new arrivals of foreigners and long-term unemployed foreigners respectively. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that foreigners who have never been integrated into Denmark and who have been unemployed for a long period should have the opportunity to return to their country of origin with financial support. In addition, we believe that it makes good sense that people with temporary stays and other foreigners who have been in Denmark for a short time should continue to be systematically advised about the possibility of repatriating to their home countries. The bill follows an agreement whereby we agreed with the Left, the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance to strengthen and target the municipalities' obligation to provide guidance on repatriation in order to ensure that far more foreigners, through dedicated return visits, will in future accept the offer to repatriate. Furthermore, the agreement was motivated by the fact that several social workers across the country expressed frustration that they were obliged to advise citizens about the possibility of repatriation where it was not relevant. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the repatriation system is a sensible arrangement. Poor integration of really many people originating in the Middle East and Africa in particular costs Danish society dearly • socially, economically and culturally. And if people were better in their home countries, but find it hard to see how they can get there, then it's good for everyone that we have this offer for them. And the bill also contains a number of other proposals for adjustments to the repatriation scheme Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184145	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184149	Thank you. After all, we have discussed repatriation before, and New Citizens is probably the only party in the blue block at least that thinks it is a really bad idea to spend a lot of money sending people home, especially when we see at what pace it is going on. Because at the pace of the scheme now, the more than 20,000 migrants who came here in 2015, 2016, that is, in the situation we had there, will be out about 2050 at the rate that is now. And then these people have had children in the meantime, and that means that they probably only, if you count on the kids at the pace that is now going to be out by the year 2110. Does the rapporteur really believe that this is the best way to ensure that migrants who have come here return home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184245	No. So, the best offer in terms of ensuring that people travel home by those who have come since 2015 and 2016 is that of those who have protection according to section 7 paragraph 7. Thirdly, in the law on foreigners, that is, what concerns the general conditions in the country and not people who are personally persecuted, hopefully, as many as possible, have the opportunity to return home soon. Some have already left 130,000 Syrians have returned from the vicinity, and some have used this scheme to go home voluntarily, while others are then told by the mention that they have to go home. But the repatriation cannot, of course, be left alone. Repatriation, as I see it, is an additional tool in the drawer, which draws in the right direction, but which, of course, does not solve the problems we have. Unfortunately, we have to say, I think, that we are suffering from a foreign law which was born in 1983 and which has major consequences to this day. And, in fact, the legislative proposal before us is what will have the greatest effect on the future, in other words, if we succeed in creating a basic new asylum system, so that we can at least avoid the problem continuing to increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184352	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184354	Well, I quite agree with the latter. It just doesn't change the fact that even if we shut down the influx, a lot of people have come here. I had a debate with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl the other day, where he made the claim that there are 30,000 Syrians in Denmark. The fact is that there are considerably more; there are approx. 50% More than that number, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl argued. And that means, of course, that if you're going to get these people to go home and now we're only talking about Syrians, it's not the repatriation system or the slow pace with which you can take them away and withdraw their residence permit that can solve these problems. What does the government have in mind, what does the Social Democratic Party intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184437	Well, Mrs Pernille Vermund is right that we are in trouble, because we cannot do much more than what is now happening in the current debate on the withdrawal of residence permits from those who have been protected from acts of war. Then we can motivate people to take advantage of this, and that is what we hope to achieve with this, that more people will use the repatriation scheme, provide more information about it, target it, as we have done with this agreement, so that long-term residents and people who have been here for a short time are constantly confronted with it. However, we cannot do so much more than we do otherwise, and we can make sure that the problem does not get bigger and bigger at least. And that's where the reception center plays the major role.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184520	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184524	Thank you very much. I think I can speak on behalf of the Danish People's Party when I say that Conservatives and the Danish People's Party were really disappointed when the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Liberal Alliance jumped from the agreement they had with our two parties, then to make a new relaxation together with the Radical Left. Conservatives therefore propose an amendment to this bill, so that they approx. 9,000 people that the government is now going to send to an extra interview every two years are going to it every year and the group that is to be exempted from repatriation guidance should not be 30,000, but should be a very, very narrow group that has been in Denmark for 15 years and had worked for more or less 3 years. That would actually make sense. Is this something that the Social Democratic Party can support, or is it going to stick to the relaxation that was made with the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184618	I do not recognise that the Radical Left is just some kind of radioactive political material that you can throw into a debate and then make it sound like something is a great relief. So, I think that in this context, the Radical Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Left and the Social Democrats have reached an agreement that makes good sense and that ensures that we spend resources on repatriation talks much better than we have done so far. The fact that we are focusing on the long-term unemployed and focusing on those who have recently arrived, I do not see any sign of a relaxation at all. You don't have to have part-out conversations with people where it's not relevant at all and where I think Mr. Marcus Knuth in many of the cases that have been promoted in the media would also not think it was so relevant. So to turn this into such a tighter-winder discussion, I think it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184710	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184711	Now Mr. Rasmus Stoklund is not on my question. You go out into shelter of the night and break an existing agreement with the Danish People's Party and Conservatives and make a new agreement with Radicals, and so, you can usually set your clock after that if an alien agreement has the support of the Radical Left, it is a real, really lax agreement that everything else just isn't positive. But if Mr. Rasmus Stoklund will answer my question: is our amendment, which then actually tightens up the rules for return guidance, something that will be voted for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184745	No, we will not vote in favour of this. And I don't think it's fair to the Radical Left to do it this way. In other words, there are many things I do not agree with the Radical Left, but I think that when the Radical Left contributes to a pragmatic and sensible agreement that makes these rules more meaningful, it is only positive. In addition, this bill also contains other sensible elements, for example. to strengthen the possibilities of recovering the debts of some of those who may regret having been repatriated. We have seen some boring examples of this in the past, that is, that people got away cheaply in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184821	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184825	It was the previous question that led me to press here, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that politics will be poor if we discuss who concludes the agreements rather than what the content of the agreements is. The important thing in politics must always be that I can hear the rapporteur probably agree with that, and I just want him to confirm the content of the decisions and not just the parties behind them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184854	Yes, I will admit that, despite the fact that the Radical Left has done what they could to gain a bad reputation in foreign policy for many decades, when the Radical Left is actually seriously involved in this, it has to be recognised that it is pragmatic and sensible and that it helps to reach a broad political agreement with the Liberal Alliance, the Left and the Social Democratic Party, which improves this system, I am convinced, quite clearly. I think that is only positive, and I think it is right that we should deal with how the parties act and not with the reputation they may have created.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184934	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Mads Birded. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506184955	Thank you for the floor. This bill aims to follow up on a number of specific cases in the area of repatriation and is part of the repatriation agreement that we entered into with the government back in February. The agreement shall include, inter alia: to ensure that unemployed foreigners are invited for new return visits. The existing system worked miserably. Either you didn't get people called in, or the meetings were volunteers, or the call was a message in e-Boks. It did not work at all, even though there was a political desire for it to work. Today, the redeployment scheme is an important tool when it comes to the voluntary return of foreigners. Not many people do that. We hope that with this agreement we can double the number. The four countries to which most people are returning are Somalia, Bosnia, Turkey and Syria, which are now on their way. These are all countries to which we want more people to return. The agreement we made with the government means that approx. 9,000 long-term foreigners will in future have a dedicated conversation with the municipality about the possibility of going home voluntarily with the support of the Danish state. There are also some people you don't want to be part of these conversations. There are a number of hard-working Brits that have suddenly ended up on a list, so they have to go to repatriation conversations. We do not think that there is any reason to call them into rather focus resources where we get the most out of it. We hope to be able to double the number of repatriations. We have a wish that in 5-6 years we can reach more than 1,000 repatriations a year. The draft law also proposes, in general terms, that we make greater demands in relation to becoming part of the repatriation scheme, in particular with a view to obtaining repatriation aid. It is important that we ensure that foreigners who make use of repatriation aid use the opportunity to return home and thus help to benefit the country from which they originally come. Today we see too many cases in which foreigners receiving repatriation aid do not use it appropriately. We have seen several unfortunate cases in which foreigners use the aid to engage in activities abroad which may pose or threaten the security of the State or the security of other States or constitute a significant threat to public order. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, and it is good that with this agreement we get these things fenced in. That is why we in the Left are in favour of allowing municipalities better access to data in relation to applications for repatriation aid, so that they have better access to information that is essential to the application for the payment of repatriation aid. There have been many specific cases in connection with the aid which have shown that there is a need to review the close-up mechanism in order to eliminate any inappropriateness that might undermine the legitimacy of the scheme. Repatriation aid must be given to those who want to leave Denmark to help get a better life where they originally came from. Unfortunately, the reality is that we have too many immigrants who are part of the scheme but who do not want to leave Denmark. The bill will tighten up the requirements for repatriation and it is important to motivate foreigners to return to their country of origin. With these words, I can say that the Left is still pleased with the agreement we reached with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506185338	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur on the way, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506185403	Now we are discussing the draft law amending the law on repatriation. The proposal contains, yes, okay, some good and necessary changes, and overall, the Danish People's Party supports repatriation, because we would like to see all means being used to get foreigners to return home. The aid is very good, and it may sound like a lot of money you can bring home, but it should be seen in the context of the fact that the alternative is a continued stay in Denmark on public services, and in that light repatriation is clearly preferable. The bill results in an agreement from February, which neither the Danish People's Party nor, as Mr. Marcus Knuth said the Conservatives are in it. The fact is that we were presented with an agreement proposal which was already negotiated between the government, the Left, the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance, which is part of the agreement. All we had to do was sign it, but we didn't. We did not do so because we would have liked to have agreed to the agreement with the following things: firstly, we would like to extend the circle of countries to which we can repatriate. An extension is proposed in the draft law, but it is not enough. It should also be possible to repatriate to a country in the vicinity of which you have previously lived or been a national. The bill takes a small step, but not enough. If you could also repatriate to a neighbouring country, many more foreigners in Denmark would benefit from the scheme. For example, a Syrian refugee should be able to get repatriation to settle in Lebanon or Jordan, and that is neighbouring Syria. We cannot do that today, and neither can we with the legislative proposal, which extends it a little, but not enough. Secondly, we also want to extend the target group for repatriation. The current target group is refugees, family members of refugees, foreigners who have arrived in Denmark before 1983 and Danish citizens with dual nationality. With the bill, the government will cut the target group so that it will now be around 8,900 foreigners who will have a so-called dedicated conversation with the municipality about the possibilities of going home voluntarily with the support of the Danish state. That group is too narrow. It appears that approx. 27,700 people will be counseled for repatriation when there are other grounds for doing so, and you will also be able to ask for guidance yourself. However, if the 27,700 foreigners are not systematically brought to the attention of the scheme and are therefore unaware of the existence of the scheme, hardly many people are asking for guidance. Thus we lose many on the floor who could go home with support. As the government cuts the target group of the dedicated conversation down to 8,900 people, we also expect the result to be more foreigners travelling with repatriation aid. In recent years, between 300 and 500 foreigners have taken advantage of the scheme annually, but expectations must now be increased. Many more need to be repatriated. We must expect that to happen. It also appears that it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration's estimate that by 2020 there were approx. 200,000 persons covered by the Return Act. Let me mention a very large group of people who are not at all part of the systematic counselling group: early retirement with a foreign background. In 2007 there were over 20,000 non-western immigrants on early retirement in Denmark, and in 2017 it had increased to over 31,000. And in time, there'll probably be more. That group could be greatly involved in the systematic guidance of immigrants on the possibility of returning home with repatriation aid, but that group is therefore not subject to systematic guidance, and that is a pity, because there are probably many foreign early retirement workers who want to return home. We would have liked to have been involved in the agreement and not just be presented with something that we would have had to sign without any influence on what we have not done either. We will follow the further examination of the bill and I would like to say to the Minister that what he has done with this bill is bad style. This is not a way of dealing with parties that really want to go the right way in foreign policy and also take part in repatriation. I was very surprised that both the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party were being sidelined by the Minister, who is otherwise committed in this area. But the Minister must take responsibility for that himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506185859	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who is asked to be ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506185927	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government for bringing forward this bill, which is intended to regulate a number of matters in the Return Act. In the SF, we are in favour of the repatriation scheme as it allows citizens to return to their homeland and build a new life. It is good that, as a state, we are helping these refugees well into a new life, but at the same time it is important that the repatriation aid be granted to the right people and not to criminals. It is for SF a matter of course that a person who commits crime in this country should not be able to use the scheme to evade the punishment and leave Denmark with repatriation aid. That is why we support the government's proposal to provide local authorities with the right tools to ensure that repatriation aid is not paid out to criminals. The draft law also includes measures aimed at preventing persons at risk of State security from receiving reintegration assistance and repatriation support. We support this, of course, and we also believe that it is quite fair and proper to regulate the authorisation clause in order to ensure that those who regret repatriation actually pay back the aid paid. I would also like to mention that we are in favour of allowing family reunification of foreigners, which, for example, is maintained in a marriage against their will, to repatriate without their spouse. And then it is very positive that the scheme should be extended so that people can not only repatriate to their country of origin, but also to countries where they have close family ties. Generally speaking, we in the SF believe that the changes resulting from this bill make a great deal of sense, but we, like the Danish Refugee Aid, are concerned that the frequency and repetitions of the repatriation services may hinder integration efforts. Several municipalities state that the increased focus on repatriation may be inappropriate for an otherwise constructive cooperation between case managers of citizens in the employment-oriented integration effort. We must ensure that the duty to provide guidance to the citizen creates both the best framework for sustainable integration and, at the same time, facilitates access for foreigners to voluntarily repatriate. With these comments, I should like to say that the SF supports this bill, but wants a committee discussion on the Government's desire to introduce a dedicated and more effective municipal guidance on repatriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190155	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190216	Thank you for the floor, President. The Radical Left supports the possibility of repatriation aid, as it provides the opportunity to establish itself appropriately for those who wish to return. Basically, however, we think that municipalities have better things to do than have a duty to return conversations, especially for people who do not intend to repatriate, because then it will be a duty for bureaucracy and for the sake of the system. That is why we are pleased to have helped to reach an agreement with the government, the Left and the Liberal Alliance, which half the target group for this commitment from 60 000 to approx. 30,000, and this is done by taking out the group of Danish citizens with dual nationality and foreigners legally resident in Denmark for more than 5 years who have not received cash benefits for one and a half of the last 3 years. Why, then, should they be wasting their time in return conversations? There are reports of quite unworthy conversations where people who have clearly been well integrated and worked well have been at the town hall, and yet employees, because it has been a duty, have had to provide information about this opportunity. It has simply been unworthy. There are now two groups of people in relation to the duty that exists. There are foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark for less than 5 years and there is no change for that target group and there are foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark for more than 5 years who have received cash benefits similar to those for one and a half of the last 3 years. Every two years, that group will receive more advice on repatriation than it does today at meetings that they still have to attend when, for example, they do. is at a meeting with the municipality at the job center. So it is a simplification and a reduction in the group of people, and it is for some who did not intend to return anyway, and there is no need to waste time on it. That's common sense. We also think that several other elements of the bill are sensible: if you have committed crime, you cannot simply take a bag of money with you and there is a refund if you regret it. We think that is also sensible. That is why, overall, we are in favour of the draft law. I would just like to add something here at the end of the debate, in other words that it is something strange whose policy is about who concludes the agreements and not about the political content of the agreements. It must and must be policy we are discussing and the action we are taking, and not just those who conclude the agreements. That is something strange if we reduce politics to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190524	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190528	It was right to the end, sir. Kristian Hegaard, on the other hand, it is also a bad thing if, when you negotiate, you say that there are other parties you do not want to participate, whether it is in a conciliation or in a negotiation, and there is such a slight tendency to do so in Danish politics. At any rate, I have my own starting point: the broad conciliation is always an end in itself, and the other is an injustice. So, I know that the consent law deliberately excluded the bourgeois parties, and then we can talk politics and substance, but it is not right to demand that people who do not participate in a negotiation should take responsibility for a law. In my world, this has little to do with parliamentarianism and minority protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190621	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190623	I really liked the consent law we made. It is a fence post for Danish legal history that there must now be consent and that it should not be only violence or threats of violence that are involved before anything can be a rape. It really is something that has moved something in Danish legal history, and I think that, when you look back on it in a few years' time, it will be comparable to when you removed the right of reproof, and it was a coinage of the understanding paper, and therefore it was of course natural that it was the parties that met. But I am glad that all the parties in the Danish parliament stood together and supported it and created legal history in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190703	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190704	Yes, but we do not disagree on that, and we were also in the same party at the time. I just still think it's a bad thing, and I also know that the Danish People's Party did it to the left in the old days. You wouldn't want them with us to make the reconciliations alone, we'll sit alone at the table and I just don't think that's very dressy. Now that all parties agree that this is basically a good idea, we can ensure that the parties are also invited to these negotiations. I just think that this is a generally inclusive view, but I understand that Mr. Kristian Hegaard finds other things more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190750	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190750-2	I can say that what I thought most important was that we are now creating a completely new legal position, a legal certainty, for rape victims, and I welcome the fact that all parties in the Folketing supported it. Well, that's history, and it's worthwhile to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190807	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506190826	Thank you. Overall, in the Enhedslisten, we feel that the possibility of obtaining financial assistance if you wish to return to your country of origin is a good idea. If, for example, If we are Afghans who have been in Denmark for 20 years, but who now want to return to Afghanistan to participate in the reconstruction of their country, then I think we should certainly help them on the right path. We in the Enhedslist are fully in favour of remedying the shortcomings of the legislation, just as we do not believe that we should be able to obtain the aid if serious crime has been committed, as we have also discussed a few times in here. We fully support that part. And without having to say anything about agreements and not agreements, who is invited and who is not invited, I can say that we were invited in the Enhedslisten, but turned down, and now I will tell you why. That the municipalities should actively seek out foreigners and try to motivate them to leave the country, I do not think that is a good idea at all. Firstly, it is a strange signal to send to people who have potentially been born and raised here that there is suddenly a case worker at the municipality and must try to lure them into moving to a country they have never lived in. Why on earth would they be interested in that? And when you do, you treat Danish citizens, i.e. citizens who have lived here, as second-class citizens. They say, "Thank you for coming to the meeting, and I should say hello from the Danish government and say that we would rather see you leaving the country, you are not a criminal, you have done nothing wrong, but you are just not as good enough to be here in our society. We in the Enhedslisten do not think so, and I think it is a very strange view of people when you think that municipalities should actively encourage citizens in society to leave the country. So we do not support that part of the repatriation law, and I have also noticed that the social workers who are going to do this work are very dissatisfied with it. They simply believe that this is an obstacle to their work, and I think we should listen to that too. However, that it should be possible to obtain repatriation aid, we fully agree, and to make the law easier I find it very difficult to disagree with, and that is why we in the Enhedslist have actually ended up deciding to look very positively at this proposal, and I expect that we will press the green buttons when it comes to voting on it. Then I will simply stay, although it is enough to derail the debate so the President must stop me from saying to Mr. Jens Rohde: If it were the case that the Blue Block would have liked to have made a consent law, then they had the opportunity three times when Enhedslisten tabled motions for resolutions. Honestly, sir. Jens Rohde, we simply had no idea that the blue parties thought it was important to change the legislation, so we were given a consent law. If we'd known, I'm pretty sure they'd been invited, but I'm just like Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard extremely happy and really, really proud that he managed to get full plate on the green buttons. Sorry to derail the debate. But we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191148	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191150	Now both of you, sir. Kristian Hegaard and Mrs Rosa Lund stop with the strawman argumentation. I myself took part in the Radical Left and agreed to adopt it here. In no way do I materially disagree with the consent law. Don't make it a substantive discussion about the consent law. This is just about whether you sit down and actually try to spread it out. When there are parties that say they want to participate in it, I just think it is good style to try to make a broad majority. But that's how we can feel so differently. For me, the broad majority is an end in itself, because I think it is a good parliamentary principle that we should not just let the majority do what the majority wants, but that we should actually try to involve as many people as possible and make as broad a majority as possible. That's the only thing I'm not questioning in substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191251	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191254	I think it's the substance that's important, sir. Jens Rohde. That is why it was so, to take another example, that I actually thought it was quite fine that Enhedslisten and the government agreed that we did not have to be involved in the citizenship negotiations. We knew that we would get into the minister's office, have time to eat half a cookie and maybe also take a sip of the coffee, and then we would be out the door again because we would not agree with, for example. Mr. Marcus Knuth on the substance. I knew that. The Minister knew that. Marcus Knuth. Therefore, it would have been a waste of everyone's time if Enhedslisten had trodden up to those negotiations. Then for Mr. Jens Rohde: It is the substance that is important to Enhedslisten, and it is not who we enter into agreements with. That is why we are included, for example. We also welcome agreements with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's party when we agree on the content.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191343	Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191344	Of course, you shouldn't waste each other's time if you're miles apart. That's perfectly logical. That's not what I'm saying either. It is again a strawman argumentation. I'm just saying that none of the bourgeois parties opposed the consent law and they would have liked to have been summoned, and then I just think it's good style to do it. But that's how we're so different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191406	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191409	Well, sir. Jens Rohde, the bourgeois parties were against the consent law until it was made. The Enhedslisten made proposals on this in Parliament three times, and we were told that we were contract types, NemID types, and I do not know what. It is sincere: How in the world should we know that they were interested? I think you have to offer yourself a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191431	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191434	I regret that I will now be helping to derail the debate a little further. But it's kind of lost track. There was a time when there were negotiations about Blackstone. After all, those negotiations stopped at some point, and so there were coalitions, like some coalitions. I just want to ask Mrs. Rosa Lund if she was summoned by Mr. Lund. Jens Rohde to the negotiations that were when the negotiations broke down on Mr. Jens Rohde called Mrs Rosa Lund for a broad debate on Blackstone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191508	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191509	I was called up online. Well, I didn't get an invitation, but I could see at Twitter that there was a meeting among the parties that disagreed with my own party. But it said in the invitation that it was for everyone, so I chose like to step up, but when I could see in the room that we were sitting in, that we simply did not agree on the substance, I chose to go. But no, Enhedslisten did not get an invitation as such. We could read it online.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191537	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191600	Thank you, sir. President. There's a lot of good bets in this bill. The proposal takes into account, among other things: to address issues relating to returnees who receive their repatriation, even if they have committed crime. Of course, this is done on the basis of the very sad case of the man from Syria who killed part of his family and yet stood to receive the second instalment of his repatriation. Since then, I actually think B.T. has been able to show that he has not actually requested payment of the rate, possibly because of the prison in which he is sitting. Surely everything else would be positive if he did not ask for it. Maybe that's something the minister can shed some light on. That part of the bill is good. The bill also addresses the problem of people who accept repatriation and return to their country of origin but return to Denmark without paying back the money. That part of the bill is also very nice. However, the part of the agreement which relaxes the requirements of the approx. 30,000 out of 60,000 unemployed foreigners, who no longer need to be guided in repatriation, are Conservatives vertically opposed. It is a massive relaxation of foreign policy, and frankly: we think it was obscene that the Social Democrats and the Left completely broke the existing agreement behind the backs of the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, so as to change the Radical Left instead. We are against that part of the bill. We shall table an amendment. The fact is that the group of approximately 10,000, which will in future be interviewed every two years, will instead be interviewed every year, and that 30,000 out of 60,000 are not exempted from counselling, but that the only ones who are exempt from counselling are foreigners who have been in Denmark for 15 years and who have worked the last 3 years minus 3 months and who have passed Danish examination 3 or similar. We are very much opposed to the issue of exempting 30,000 out of 60,000 from repatriation guidance. So we look forward to hearing the views of the parties on our amendments, and then we look forward to the committee reading after that before we finally take a position on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191814	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191817	It is just because the rapporteur just had the opportunity to highlight the Radical Left in his speech, and then, of course, I had to press in. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Conservative People's Party sincerely: is it more important for the Conservative People's Party who is behind an agreement than what the content of an agreement is?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191836	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191836-2	No, it is not, but I think it is a fairly clear pattern that the foreign policy agreements in which the Radical Left has been involved have not only been relaxed, but relaxed to such an extent that the party's former President Mr. Morten Østergaard has actually been proud that in Helle Thorning-Schmidt's time at least 47 reliefs were made, I think that was what he said with pride. In fact, we went out and advertised how many times we had relaxed the policy on foreigners, and this sets out a very clear pattern of what sort of foreign policy agreements the Radical Left forms part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191920	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191921	But if the rapporteur's content is ultimately decisive, why did the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, when this fine agreement was reached, spend a lot of gunpowder on saying that the Radical Left was involved, and that is why it was a bad agreement or when even the Radical Left is involved, it must be a bad deal? Why was it important to highlight for the Conservative People's Party? Does it not make politics poor if it is not the content we are discussing? Is it not the difference, the action we are doing, which is the most interesting thing about politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506191956	Well, that's what we did. on the basis of the quote Mr. Kristian Hegaard himself was included when the agreement was presented, where Mr. Kristian Hegaard said something like: This is a good deal; now there are fewer people to be guided in being repatriated. That's exactly why we took our heads and were deeply frustrated. For the Left and Social Democrats said: this is a good deal. It's tightening up the deal. Sir. Kristian Hegaard went out and praised the agreement because there are now fewer people to be repatriated. I think it speaks quite clearly for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506192028	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506192054	The state rewards a murderer who has stoned his wife and his oldest child. It seems absurd, it is When it can happen anyway, it is due to the law of repatriation; a law that gives migrants hundreds of dollars in cash to leave Denmark and try to return where they come from. There is no requirement for them to stay outside Denmark; when the money is spent, they can return. You have a right of withdrawal of up to two years, and there are many who make use of it. The hope of the politicians behind the scheme is probably that the repatriations can be started along that path, and this may sound sympathetic; but is it a realistic way to go if you want fewer and not more unintegrable foreigners in Denmark? I don't think so. At the pace of the scheme now, for example, the more than 20,000 migrants living 2015 and 2016 will be out again around 2050; and that up to 2050 they will probably have tripled their numbers in the form of children and family reunifications, will then extend the period further to the year 2110. In other words, it should be obvious to everyone that voluntary repatriation with grants from the municipality does not solve anything. But it costs the Danes money. The immigrants laugh when they regret returning to Denmark and the next day they stand down at the municipal office and say: Cash benefits, yes please. The Act of Repatriation is a typical patchwork that politicians in the Folketing have made far too many of over the years, because they will not grasp the root of the nettle and solve the immigration policy from scratch. That's why we end up with grotesque examples like the killer who gets a total of DKK 215,000. of the Danes' money, even if he is both arrested and confessed to the killings of his wife and son. 86 politicians in the Folketing voted as late as 29 May 2018 for the recent amendments to this law • no one voted against. If New Citizens' four seats had been held in the Danish Parliament in 2018, we would have felt loud and violently opposed. Instead of paying the repatriation allowance to migrants, you can stop letting them in at the start of the day and simply stop granting asylum will reduce the problem over time. In addition, we must, of course, stop supporting foreigners, which they themselves must stand for. The right to public support must be linked to Danish citizenship. If you cannot support yourself, you must lose your residence permit and leave. Finally, we must demonstrate consistently, after the first sentence, all foreigners convicted of crime. This is the answer of the New Citizen as an alternative to decades of patchwork, an alternative that will solve the problems from scratch. However, as you know, we do not have a majority in favour of our policy, and that is why we also consider it essential to ensure at least that the legislation introduced and supported by a majority in the Folketing is amended, so that repatriation is at least not paid to foreigners who commit crime in their country of origin after repatriation. Against this background, New Citizens can back this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506192414	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506192431	I can make that very brief. The KD backs the bill, which we think has a reasonable balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506192440	To the Christian Democrats' rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506192459	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the receipt of the draft law and for the good debate that I think has also been in this Chamber. I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to discuss the details of the legislative proposal, and I am also pleased that there is support for the proposal. As you know, the draft law comes from a number of specific cases in the field of repatriation, including: was brought in the daily newspaper B.T., and which contributed to my decision to send the whole law a trip to the workshop so that it could be looked at thoroughly in the seams. A slightly more thorough overhaul of the repatriation scheme has also been carried out in parallel with this in the summer of 2020. The purpose of this bill is therefore to tighten up the bar dunes in the law so that the scheme will be even better than I think it is already. I believe that we have basically a good and attractive system, but there has been a need to regulate and optimise it on several points. For example: We are now introducing a dedicated return interview to guide the repatriation scheme, we are changing the rules on the reimbursement of aid, we are optimising the performance structure and, in addition, we are closing some gaps in the law so that no aid is paid to criminals in the future. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority in favour of ensuring with this bill that an already good system can be a little better. I will not go through the entire bill in detail here from the platform, just a few things. With the proposal, we ensure that the municipal councils are to refuse aid in the future if it turns out that the applicant is registered as charged in the criminal register at the time of the application. A similar scheme has been added at the time of payment of the last part of the repatriation assistance and for the forward payment of reintegration assistance. It will in future be the case that the municipal council and what is called Disbursement Denmark, before payment, will examine whether the person concerned has been charged or convicted at this time of particularly serious crime committed prior to the decision. And if an ongoing charge for serious crime has been registered, the remaining aid may be withheld and cancelled. It is a direct outcome of some of the articles we have read about in the media, where I think we are a part that has shook its head. In addition, it is proposed that the municipal council may refuse an application for aid: • if there are grounds for believing that the applicant intends to take part in activities abroad which may pose or increase a threat to the security of the State, the security of other States or a significant threat to public order. It's a very long sentence, but I guess that's what we can call the foreign warrior paragraph. In this connection, the municipal council must obtain a statement from the police, who can also consult the Police Intelligence Service. According to the proposal, the decision of the municipal council refusing aid for reasons of State security will not be subject to appeal to the Ankestyrelsen. The decision, on the other hand, will be subject to review by the courts. In addition, the draft law provides for the possibility to regulate separately the right of the municipal council to recover the recovery aid when a person withdraws the repatriation and returns. This is what we are doing to ensure that the aid is actually repaid more than at present and, on that basis, to prevent abuse of the scheme. We must recognize, even on the basis of some of the articles that have been before us, that there has been abuse of the system, and it is quite necessary for the legitimacy of the system that the money should actually be repaid if people regret. In addition, we are spreading the scheme a little more, as the proposal makes it possible to repatriate to a country to which the person has close family ties. The draft law also provides for a change in the composition of aid for repatriation, so that the individual forms of aid are divided in a new way and are made up more of flat-rate amounts. The aim of the new structure is firstly to change the date of payment so that a larger part of the aid is paid after the exit. The amendment thus reduces the possibility of abuse of the repatriation scheme and increases the motivation of foreigners to genuinely enter the country of repatriation. Secondly, the aim is to create a more appropriate and simple administration of the cases in the municipalities. Last but not least, we propose to provide more effective guidance on repatriation by introducing a dedicated return interview for foreigners who have been legally resident in Denmark for more than 5 years and who have been on cash benefits for at least 18 out of the last 36 months. With the new interview on repatriation, care must be taken to ensure that foreigners who are far from the labour market are put at a table with an employee from the municipality, get a cup of coffee and here actively relate to the possibility of returning home. With the interview, they will have occasion to consider carefully whether they are on the right shelf in Denmark or whether it would be better to consider going home, accepting the offer of money and packing the suitcase. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for today's debate on the various initiatives in the legislative proposal, and I have noted, as I said, that there seems to be fairly broad support, and of course I am pleased about that. I look forward to further discussion here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193007	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193023	The debate is open, and the first speaker is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193041	Thank you, President. The bill is a so-called collective bill which proposes a number of minor amendments and adjustments to the law on foreigners and the law on Danish citizenship. The aim of the draft law is to simplify the procedure, to take action against possible abuse of the rules and to clarify the rules. The draft law proposes, among other things: to re-establish the right of declaration for former Danish nationals until April 2026 in connection with the acquisition of foreign nationality. The draft law also contains other corrections and amendments, such as: to introduce a general right of appeal in all categories of visa cases so that visa applicants can appeal to a visa in all cases in the future. Another example could be the exclusion of foreigners living on a tolerated basis from access to employment, stays in self-funded accommodation and private accommodation. A third example I would like to mention is that it is made clear that it is the municipal council which is responsible for the enforcement of decisions taken under the Aliens Act on the placement without the consent of unaccompanied minors and that the police can help to enforce these decisions. In addition, the bill contains a number of other adjustments and amendments to the Aliens Act. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left, which I can see is coming up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193231	Thank you for that, President. The aim of this bill is to implement a number of amendments and clarifications to the rules of the Aliens Act in the areas of visas and asylum, such as: must help to simplify procedures, intervene against possible abuses of the rules and, of course, also provide greater clarity. In addition, as the rapporteur said before me, there are a number of other things, and that is why the term 'gathering law' or 'bunk wedding', depending on temperament, is probably the right one. It is important that we create a framework that ensures that our authorities have the right powers to clarify the rules so that we ensure that the rules that are to benefit citizens do so and that the rules put in the right places with as few inappropriate things as possible. We welcome the fact that we are extending the possibility of reclaiming Danish citizenship. That's something, among other things. Danes Worldwide has brought up several times, and that is why we think it is positive that this bill addresses that challenge. The proposal here also clarifies the legal basis for the provision of separate accommodation for married and cohabiting minors. Generally speaking, we believe that, if it is for the child's good, it should be possible to separate asylum-seeking couples if one is a minor. We think it is good that there is now a clear legal basis for the practice used by the Foreigners' Board when it separates spouses or other cohabitants when one party is a minor. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193402	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193415	Thank you for the floor. I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration has been cleared up. Everything that has had to be corrected has been found, and then you have thrown it into a pile here and called it L 228. So it's all sorts of good from the sea. There are ten different things, and much of it we think is very sensible. Giving Karens to people seeking visas who have abused visa access to Denmark by staying too long or by using our health system in an unreasonable way is quite reasonable. It is also sensible to ensure that asylum seekers and people who are unable to work are not able to do so. The fact that you cannot be accommodated in private in the same situation is also reasonable. There are a lot of small sensible tightenings in it. There is only one relaxation that we are not particularly pleased with, and this is the extension of the right of access to the declaration in order to get back its Danish citizenship. In general, we think that this is a double citizenship practice. A citizenship is a destiny, it's a life, it's a huge thing. It is not something you just walk around and get and you want an extra one, especially one, in relation to Schengen. You run the risk of this happening when you accept that people have several citizenships. This declaration access is precisely for people who have renounced their former Danish citizenship. However, since it is only a five-year extension and we have been looking at the list, which is included in the comments to the bill, that it is primarily people who have had Western citizenships that are now coming back to the Danish, we are not so worried about that. In general, however, we believe that it is a mistake to have more citizenship. However, since there are, after all, more austerity than relaxations, we can support the clean-up proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193640	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the SF, who is asked to prepare herself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193700	Thank you. It is also a speech made on behalf of our rapporteur, who cannot be here today. There are a lot of suggestions, and then there are a lot of proposals, and here we are dealing with a big one, I think. Generally speaking, I and the SF believe that it is a bad idea to lump so much together, but given the number of treatments in the Chamber, we should not propose it split up into atoms. This is probably due to the fact that you can actually find a lot of sense when you get sorted out in the proposals. So we recognise that there seems to have been a focus on the ministry in terms of having relatively uncontroversial proposals put together, all in view. When I say sensible and uncontroversial proposals, I think, for example, that this applies to the part that concerns handing over complaints, for example. the cost of the Danish Health Service to the Danish Agency for Appeals, but also, as such, that we finally have a clear legal basis for separating minors from the elderly. Here in the SF we would like it to be arranged in the Service Act and not as part of the Aliens Act, so that it is a general principle and not some specific law for newcomers. However, it should not separate us from whether we support the proposal or not, because the content is, in fact, far-reachingly sensible. I do not think it is any further meaningful to go into each part of the proposal here, as we have the committee's work on detail. However, there are some details that puzzle the SF. For example, it makes sense to extend the system of declaration access to former Danish citizens, but I am a little out of comprehension as to why the scheme should expire after five years. If, moreover, the system has been sensible and unproblematic, what is the reason why it is not made permanent? It is a surprise that I share with Danes Worldwide, and I do not really think that the Ministry responds to the wonder in their comments on the hearing response. In addition, there is also the whole element called tolerated stay. Although most of the bill is an uncontroversial mess shop, we in the SF believe that the elements of tolerated residence deserve to be dealt with separately. I actually think that SF will end up backing all these elements, but when you look at the rest of the proposals, these things stick out, and you can also see from the consultation answers that those elements have a special character. In those words, the SF initially expects to be able to support the proposal, but we are awaiting the work of the committee before we adopt a final position. Another time, I also think that the Ministry may, of its own motion, take the initiative for a technical review when you have set your best knitting crowns to merge such a large ragged blanket.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506193949	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194034	Thank you for the floor. Usually I like mix-yourself sweets very much. There you can take whatever you want there is all good from the sea. I usually go to the gummie that looks like a peach, or the foam gum that looks like frogs. But in spite of my love for mix-self-sweets and things that are mixed together, I must say that this bill is just as much good from the sea, where there are both changes to the alien law, the law on Danish citizenship and the law on integration. And it's kind of sticking in different directions. It is not because we have to deal with legislative proposals that are tiny grains of sand, but this could have been arranged a little more appropriately. Of course, on the part of the Radical Left, we are satisfied with the part that has to do with the re-establishment of declaration access by former Danish citizens, but we are somewhat incomprehensible when it is said that it is a well-functioning system and praises it and praises it for not making it permanent. So let's make it permanent, that's common sense. Why do things that work have to have an outlet? Then there are some other things that we are less happy about, but now that there are so many things at stake here, we will explain this in the committee itself. But I think it's important to point out that this tends to be illegal when there are so many things mixed together, not in the candy store, but in the root shop.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194205	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, who will be ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194231	Thank you. Like the two previous rapporteurs, I would like to start by expressing my great dissatisfaction at this type of pile of legislation, patchwork, mix-self-sweets, mess shop I think there were many fine pictures that describe this bill. I do not think it is sustainable to table a single legislative proposal that changes so many areas and legislation at once. This isn't the first time this has happened. And I understand that corona has created more hurry for everyone and has created queues in this Chamber of billing, but I think this pile is just pushing the lemon. I am not going to go into that any more, but because the draft law contains so many things, it is also limited how much of what can be commented on, but I will make a few points of impact here. I'd say you learn something new every day. And today, for example, I have. learned that young pregnant women come here on a tourist visa to be allowed to give birth in our understaffed hospitals. I think that the proposal put forward here is very much in the nature of individual legislation, and it can hardly be a major problem since no one has ever heard of it until now; especially given that foreigners have a bill in their hands from the hospital, even if they are undergoing emergency medical treatment. So it's really hard to see what this scam should be for these women mentioned in the bill. Instead of the government spending gunpowder on punishing a handful of pregnant women with a three-year entry ban, it might be sensible to use the gunpowder to ensure proper conditions on maternity leave. At least we would very much like to be part of the Enhedslisten for both the birthers, but especially for all the midwives and nurses who are worn out every day in the system we have created. In other words, that is not what is described in the bill here, which is the problem at our births. That is some other thing, and I think the government knows that too. When we come to the proposed changes in relation to the possibility of employment, I can see that the Minister considers it unreasonable that some of them who are on toiled should be allowed to work, while others who are on toiled for other reasons should not be allowed to work. I kind of agree with the consideration, but I'm probably not so surprisingly wrong with the solution. Instead of allowing people we cannot send out anyway to go to work, even more people will now be placed on passive support. These people are suffering abundantly from the so-called incentive measures, which we know from the police are not working, and many of them cannot be sent out because they risk the death penalty, etc. So let us stop making life as miserable as possible for some people who already have little left to live for and who will never voluntarily travel down to their own execution. The same is true with regard to access to private accommodation. It is as if the government wants to actively destroy people and waste tax dollars keeping people trapped in exit centres, although we know very well that they will never leave. As I have said, this bill contains so many different elements that I cannot go through all of them here from the platform, but I can say that I do not feel so surprised by Mrs Krarup. There are, like some tightenings in this bill, which we cannot support, and then there is a relaxation that we can support, that is, the issue of citizenship. And there I fully agree with the previous speakers who say: let us make a regulation in this area that works. I would also very much like to support the fact that there will be a technical review, because the parties of the Folketing, who do not have a whole army of officials to sweep things apart, are being put in a very difficult situation, I think, when you come up with such a bill. So I would just like to express Enhedslisten's support for the SF's request for a technical review in committee, because we would certainly very much like that, so we are quite sure of what we are voting on. For the moment, I can say that we will not be supporting the proposal, but we would like to do so, for example. to have it divided so that we can vote in favour of the things we support and against the things we do not support. As I said, I think it is a rather unfair situation to put Parliament in when you come with such a patchwork here or what Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt was told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194708	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194728	Thank you, sir. President. I'll be brief. The draft law here has already been described as everything good from the sea and other interesting things, and I very much agree with that. There are some parts that we actually think are positive. This is true, for example. the possibility of reclaiming Danish citizenship, not least in the light of brexit. It may also be that Henrik Fogh Rasmussen wants to come back from the United States and get his Danish citizenship back; at least he should be very welcome. That is something I have talked about with Danes Worldwide, and I know that there are many former Danes out there who would actually be happy to get their Danish citizenship back. As the Danish People's Party pointed out, it is mostly people from Western countries, but I hope, of course, that the Minister will keep a close eye on the fact that no one suddenly begins to, let us say, abuse this scheme in terms of how we think it should be used. And then there are a number of other minor things that we think it is very good to do something about: abuse of Schengen cooperation, people travelling to Denmark to give birth, long-term visas to diplomats, etc. etc. On the whole, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194834	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194854	I do not want to spend as much time because, as has been said before, this is really a patchwork, that is, really a pile of weddings that will do something, with a whole lot of different changes and minor adjustments in legislation. There are a lot of good things. We would like the bill to be split up so that this declaration was separated into a separate legislative proposal, so that we had the opportunity to vote against it. Because we do not believe that the approach to Danish citizenship should be relaxed on the contrary. Alternatively, an amendment could be tabled. But as it is here, we have at least the small changes we will be looking at when the proposal comes to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506194948	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next one on the platform is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195005	Thank you, President. And thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill. I am pleased to note that there is a majority in favour of the draft law, and let me start by saying what it is: this is, as has been said, a typical all-good sea-law proposal with several different amendments to both alien law, integration law and citizenship law. In the area of asylum, the draft law includes, inter alia: clarification of the legal basis for the implementation of separate accommodation for married or cohabiting minors in the asylum system. As you know, the Instructor's Board of Directors has found that the practice of implementing separate accommodation does not have the necessary legal basis. That assessment is not shared by the Ministry, but, in order to ensure a greater degree of predictability in the legal position of both the authorities and the parties concerned, we are now clarifying the legal basis. It is also proposed to introduce a right of appeal for these decisions to the Foreigners' Board. The current practice of the Foreign Affairs Agency will therefore be continued. The draft law also introduces clear rules on which authority is responsible for the execution of children and the decisions of the Youth Committee on forced detention of unaccompanied minors, and we ensure that the police are able to assist, so that there are no cases where decisions on placement are not implemented because there are doubts about the ability of the police to provide assistance; that is something I have been in dialogue with a mayor who is facing these challenges on a daily basis. In the area of asylum, we also propose a number of different adjustments to the rules on employment, private accommodation and accommodation in self-funded accommodation for asylum seekers, including for foreigners on tolerated accommodation. As far as visas are concerned, we do, among other things, correct them. We will ensure that there is uniform control of diplomats going to Denmark to live and work. We are introducing a new opportunity to give Karens for 3 years to obtain a visa for Denmark for those who have not been honest with the Danish authorities in the past. be women who have previously used a Danish Schengen visa to enter Denmark and give birth to a child in this country without informing the Danish authorities about the pregnancy. Similarly, we introduce general redress in all categories of visa cases in order to ensure a more appropriate use of the resources of the authorities, the Foreigners' Agency, on appeal proceedings. The purpose of the bill is also to reinstate the declaration access for certain former Danish nationals, which was valid for a 5-year period from 1 September 2015 to the summer of 2020. Thus, former Danish nationals and their minor children will be able to re-acquire their Danish citizenship for a further period of time under the same conditions as applied in the declaration system which expired in the autumn. Finally, the bill amends the Integration Act by correcting the provisions of the Integration Act on Danish bonus. In those words, I would like to thank you for today's debate on the • and I recognise that • many different initiatives in the legislative proposal. And, of course, I am glad to hear that there is support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195317	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. No one has asked to speak on a brief note. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195334	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, the Social Democratic Party on its way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195400	From us in the Social Democratic Party, there must be a great congratulations to the people who appear in this bill on citizenship. For persons who have done their duty and comply with the strict conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship must, of course, have been granted Danish citizenship. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we must make high demands on people who want to become Danish citizens. It is a great privilege to have Danish citizenship. That is why we have recently reached an agreement with the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance to tighten up the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship. It is entirely in line with our social democratic view of human beings that we have high expectations of our fellow human beings. We have that out of respect. Too low expectations testify to indifference and disrespect to the individual. As we have not yet made it through the pandemic, it is proposed that the handshake requirement should continue to be suspended at the constitutional ceremonies as long as the health authorities recommend not to shake hands. Once again, there must be a great congratulations to the future Danish citizens. You have done your duty, demonstrated the ability and will to become part of our community, and you can now soon call yourselves Danish citizens. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195509	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195529	Thank you for that, President. Danish citizenship is something very special. It's something unique. That is why it is not something that should be dealt with. automatic as a foreigner. This is something that must be earned, and that is why we in the Left support the strict demands being made on those who want to become part of the Danish family. One must be able to use the Danish language, one must stick to the right side of the law, one must be in employment and contribute to Danish society and meet a number of other quite fair and reasonable demands that we make to those who have a burning desire to pick up the red-bellied passport down at the municipal office. That is why we have recently been involved in concluding an agreement with the government, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance with clear left-wing prints in a wide range of areas. That whole deal hasn't come into force yet, only parts of it are in relation to this bill. However, as I said, we are in favour of strict requirements being imposed on those who want to be part of the Danish community. If you live up to these requirements, you must also have granted Danish citizenship. After all, we are taking a step closer to doing this by first examining the draft law today, and so on behalf of the Left I would like to congratulate those who are now one step closer to being able to call themselves Danes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195656	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195700	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, and in particular thank you for concluding the speech by congratulating those who have now come a step closer. But it was more the rapporteur who also says that if you meet the conditions, you must of course have citizenship. That is not quite the case here, because there are, in fact, 16 citizens who have fulfilled the conditions, but who have now been tampered with by an agreement that has been concluded, even if they had actually come to the bill. Now the Left is usually a party which also honours the principles of the rule of law, and that is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not a rather strange situation to put in place those citizens who have, of course, met the criteria we have set for them, but who are now, just before they should actually have been granted citizenship, then they must find that they cannot have that right now. Moreover, they will not be able to do so again later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195754	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195755	Of course I congratulate those who are now one step closer to becoming Danish citizens. It's like the finest gift you can get. Well, congratulations are in order. In relation to the second part: The Constitution states that Danish citizenship is granted by law. Since we have not yet adopted this law, there is no question of some being unfairly tampered with by the bill. The rules apply when the bill is adopted. And we think it is quite fair to say that if you have committed crime of such a nature that you get a prison sentence, you cannot, as a rule, become a Danish citizen. So we don't have any quabbes in relation to that. We are sorry, however, that Enhedslisten did not want to be part of the latest agreement, where we made some sensible improvements to the native circle that regulates this area. It would suit Enhedslisten to join the circle of parties to the agreement that have made a sensible agreement with a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195858	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195900	It is true that some very specific rules apply here, because if this did not happen, this would undoubtedly be retroactive legislation, something that we normally refrain from doing. It is not, then, because this is precisely a legislative proposal and there are very special rules. But that does not alter the basic principle of establishing criteria which people are asked to meet, and then they must also have the expectation that when they have done so they will also have what they have been promised. That is not the case here. It is fair enough to change the circular, but then it has to be the case that the people who then seek know that now it is on the basis they seek. So will the rapporteur not recognise that this is some kind of retroactive legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506195937	No, I don't want to acknowledge that. And I kind of think that, uh... Peder Hvelplund is doing something that's a confession case. It has to be said that this is different from other decisions. It is the granting of citizenship, and we do so in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, which stipulate that it should be done by law. Therefore we have done nothing with retroactive effect; therefore we have done so in the way that has been done since the first chairman of the Committee of Insights, named Grundtvig, sat in the chair, saying: "To a people they all hear, as it were, to their mother's ear, [Has for the native country of fire;]. It is also a good guideline today for how the Left views the area of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200012	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200032	Danish citizenship is the innermost and most important line of defence of the Danish nation. We should not let people who might undermine the cohesion of the Danish nation pass this line, because if we lose our culture and the community about it, Denmark will cease to be a nation, then we will lose our country. Therefore, since 2001, the Danish People's Party has been biting at the table and fighting bit by bit to tighten the rules for the granting of citizenship, and we have come a very long way. The legislative proposals that once gave five-digit numbers of citizenships are now down to 3,000 to 4,000. Today there are 1,944 adults and 597 children on it. The circle has also changed, from the fact that it was once mainly Muslims, to the fact that the proportion of Muslims today is significantly smaller. Today, it is about a third coming from Muslim countries. There has clearly been a positive development in the rules in the area of citizenship during the period when the Danish People's Party has had influence on the area, but we are not in the goal. We saw this in the negotiations on the new citizenship agreement, where we in the Danish People's Party ended up not being part of the agreement. In the Danish People's Party we wanted to set an annual ceiling on the number of people who can be granted citizenship. We wanted the ceiling to be a maximum of 1,000 per year. It's not new. Since 1983, 250 000 citizenships have been acquired. This corresponds to an annual average of nearly 7,000 citizenships. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this is far too many, even if, fortunately and at the request of the Danish People's Party, the demands for citizenship have been tightened up. When you acquire citizenship in Denmark, you gain the right to vote and thus influence how Denmark's house should be arranged. One also gets inherited to Denmark's house, because one's children get citizenship with the parents, and thus one becomes formally part of the Danish family, i.e.. the Danish nation. It's ours, that's... The task of the politicians to ensure that this formal right to be part of the Danish nation is followed by a true will and ability to truly be part of the Danish nation. In other words, it is part of this community which binds the nation together: common language, common fundamental values and common traditions. When you are part of this community, you can be said to be integrated. It is of course very important that the provisions on the granting of citizenship ensure that persons are as close as possible to full integration when they are granted citizenship, and we are far from convinced that all those who are admitted to the laws of citizenship each year are fully integrated. That is why we have also voted against the vast majority of legislative proposals that have been dealt with here in Things since 1995. There are, of course, people to whom we would like to vote in favour. There is even a lot on this bill. There are, for example: people from Sydslesvig who want Danish citizenship, who are Danish in the heart in advance, and there are people who get their citizenship back, just as there are people who have married a Dane and done everything possible to join the community and who have raised their children to become Danish. We would like to vote in favour of them, while at the same time being able to vote against people who have a culture and a religion that goes so far across the Danish Christian everyday life that we do not believe that genuine integration is possible and sustainable That is why we have wanted the laws on citizenship to be broken down by country groups, so that applicants from Muslim countries, the so-called MENAPT countries, get their own bill. In the Danish People's Party we will then always vote against this bill. That is why we are tabling an amendment to this bill, as we did last time, to divide the bill by group of countries. We also want applicants for citizenship to provide information on their religious affiliation in the laws on citizenship. It is an illusion to claim that culture and religion do not matter. Everything seems to indicate the opposite not only in Denmark, but throughout the West we see how the integration of Muslims has failed, while immigration from the Western cultural community typically takes place rather smoothly. Of course, that reality should be reflected in the law of citizenship. At the same time, it should be clear to the public which parties wish to defend Denmark's cohesion by voting against the right of citizenship of persons from Muslim countries and which parties ignore this part of the matter. A division of the bill would make this clear to everyone. For these reasons, the Danish People's Party cannot support L 227. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200525	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200529	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask Mrs Krarup what she is saying about the fact that you want it broken down by country groups and that the Danish People's Party will then vote no every time it is an applicant from a Muslim country, i.e. if I understood it correctly. Does this mean that a Christian from Iraq partout would be discriminated against and could never have Danish citizenship? And would the same be the case for a Christian from Egypt or a Serb from Bosnia? 'Cause I think that would be hugely awkward. I also think it is a pity if you see it as such that no Muslims can be integrated. So, is it to be understood that a Christian Iraqi would never be able to acquire Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200601	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200603	No, it just doesn't. That is also why we want religious affiliation to be brought to the attention of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. What we want is for the laws to be divided into groups of countries. Then we can vote 'yes' and 'no' to some, and then we can make it clear, as is already the case, that there can be derogations. And that is to say, if you are a Christian Iraqi who is being voted down because there is a majority in the Folketing who does not want to give citizenship to people from Muslim countries because there is a presumption that they will continue a Muslim way of life in Denmark, then you can apply for a derogation on the grounds that you actually have a different cultural background from the Muslim one. Then one's case can be taken up on the Committee on Bodily Rights, and then it can be changed. So this is certainly not a 'no' to all who come from Muslim countries. But that is a no to the group as a group, yes, but with the possibility of exemption. We think this is a fair way of defending the Danish Christian culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200707	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200709	Just to understand it a little better, I want to know what's going on with someone who's escaped from Iran. Most who have come from Iran have fled from the priesthood, but will they then be described as Muslims in the eyes of the Danish People's Party and thus never be able to obtain Danish citizenship, i.e. only because they come from a Muslim country? not in relation to what they believe in and even if they are actually opposed to the regime that is in Iran?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200728	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200729	We do not want a large number of Muslims, whether or not they have fled from an undemocratic regime. In other words, we believe that refugees must return to their countries; that must be the main aim. We do not want to give citizenship, nor do we want to give permanent residence to too many people from Muslim countries, because culturally, Denmark cannot stand to that. So that's why we have this difference. But we also want to make a difference between people. Because if you have a Christian cultural background, it is something else, even if you come from a Muslim country. That is why it is possible to use exemption access, and I think that is a good mechanism to ensure that we do not cut everyone completely over a comb, because of course we cannot do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200816	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200820	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just want to know whether the rapporteur considers it discriminatory to discriminate against people on the basis of country of origin or religion alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200832	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200834	It is clear that this is a distinction, but it is a necessary and important distinction. This is what is necessary to defend Denmark as a Danish country. We distinguish and make differences in a wide range of areas. We have just had the visa area up for debate in the previous bill, Bill No. 228. Visa rules are a distinction between and discrimination against citizens on the basis of which country they come from. So that's something you use everywhere and all the time, and we think we should use that here, too, in terms of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200908	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200909	But here it is a question of being able to have fundamental democratic rights in the country in which you live, and that is why I just want to know whether it is the case that there are some forms of discrimination, for example. in relation to the country of origin and beliefs which the Danish People's Party considers acceptable, and that there may then be other forms of discrimination which one considers unacceptable, for example. In relation to gender, or would it also be an acceptable distinction to start to discriminate according to gender?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200936	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506200938	It is the case that if we conduct a wise policy on the part of the Folketing, so that we ensure that people who live in the country have a similar understanding of what is right and reasonable, then it is no problem at all to give everyone exactly the same rights, and that is what we want. We want equality and freedom, as we do in Denmark, and we want it to continue. But if you leave a lot of people from a culture where you are not used to freedom and equality, have a place in Denmark, that freedom and equality disappears, and that is why we must of course use all the means at our disposal to ensure that Danish culture, the Danish culture of freedom, is given the greatest opportunity to continue. Therefore, it is wise to make a difference. As I said, we do so all the time in all areas, and it is common sense to do so in this area, so that we ensure that there is as little Islam as possible present in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201038	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201052	Thank you. I would like to start by congratulating all the new Danes who have just acquired Danish citizenship, or at least soon get it, and welcome to. Denmark is a diverse country. You can be Danish in many ways and in many colors. The path to this has not been easy for you, nor must it necessarily be, but the most significant turning points in your life are also something that requires great effort. Your new status is the expression of an imperceptible change that constitutes the fruit of your diligence; you have learned Danish, you have come into work, you have learned to participate actively in society, and you have finally passed the difficult test of birth. And in this connection I would like to tell you that Denmark is a lovely country, and it is now both mine and yours that commitment. What makes Denmark special is our rule of law, democracy, gender equality and, finally, freedom of expression. These are the basic pillars of the community that Denmark is. You are part of that now, and none of the values that these pillars reflect can be deselected. If you opt out of one of them, the whole thing goes away, yes, the pillars referred to are like pillars that keep our whole society up. I hereby wish you all the best in the future and hope that with your citizenship you will actively participate in the Danish society and appreciate our lovely country as much as we do ourselves, yes, that you will contribute to strengthening the fundamental values of society. And once again a really great congratulations to all of you. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201225	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201240	Thank you, President. First of all, congratulations to those women and men and children who have met all the difficult requirements and have now become citizens. Secondly, I apologise to the men and women who have been told by the Minister that they have been taken off the citizenship list. They have met the requirements and do not have 1 year's imprisonment or 3 months' imprisonment for violence. Nevertheless, they have been removed from the list because the government has sought, retroactively, to exclude all with conditional as well as unconditional penalties. One of my good acquaintances, who is a judge, has told me that in a recent case he has given a suspended sentence to a young girl who stole an eyeliner in Brugesen. And now my good friend is shaken in his foundation that the conditional sentence he has helped to give the young girl who had stolen an eyeliner in Brugesen makes the young girl now forever excluded from citizenship. Then the young girl can possibly get an exemption in committee, and here we come to the next legal security problem beyond the government's agreement on retroactive effect. It is a problem for our community of law that we have people who are voted down on the Committee on the Rights of Citizens without giving them any justification. In fact, they must have that in accordance with Article 11 of the Convention on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. So, as it is now, we politicians sit and say yes and no in a committee behind closed doors and nobody is told what we have put the emphasis on. So the Radical Left will therefore continue to work to ensure that we respect the principles of law and the conventions. But in any case, there must be congratulations from the Radical Left to those who have acquired citizenship, and we support the bill on citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201501	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201505	Thank you to the rapporteur. I understand the example of the eyeliner and that the rapporteur tells us how unfair it is and would also like to apologize, but is the truth not that there is no one that the Radicals do not think should have citizenship? If you get two years for paedophilia, should you have Danish citizenship, or is it only when it comes to eyeliners that the rapporteur thinks it is a problem? Because is the truth not, if the rapporteur is to be honest, that the rapporteur also believes that people who have longer prison sentences should also have Danish citizenship at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201532	Thank you. The truth is that we believe that a balance has been struck in the agreement on citizenship concluded in 2018, which means that we are talking about one year's imprisonment and we are talking about three months' imprisonment for violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201557	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201605	Thank you. Now it is not to start the big debate, but can the rapporteur confirm me in the example given by the rapporteur just now, in other words, about the person who committed shoplifting? We believe that if you are a foreigner in Denmark, you have an additional obligation to behave and not steal. The person has everything else just probably permanent stay and can thus stay in Denmark for the rest of his life and get free su, free education, free welfare, i.e. the whole package free of charge paid by the Danish taxpayers. Is it really such a great punishment in goose eyes not also to be able to get the Danish passport when it is the case that you have committed shoplifting?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201644	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201645	Thank you very much. It will be experienced differently depending on who you are. For example, if you are a law student, it will be very, very hard to be excluded from citizenship. There are others who will think that it doesn't matter. It can be said that, as legislators, we have a duty to look at the proportionality of what we are doing, and it is quite disproportionately that, because graffiti has been created as a young person or stolen an eyeliner, to take that example, because one would like to look as nice as the other young girls. So it is seen through those glasses, namely that we have a duty to be proportionate, very irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201748	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201750	Will the rapporteur at least agree with me that the very clear rules on this can hardly be more clear that if you have been given a conditional or unconditional prison sentence, you cannot, as a starting point, seek Danish citizenship, will have a very, very positive preventive effect in those environments where you might think about being a petty criminal, but know that if you get a prison sentence, you cannot have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201814	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201816	It is, of course, a hope that the Conservatives can have. I think, as I hear it, that many young people are actually completely shocked when they are born and raised in the country that they cannot vote in parliamentary elections. I spoke to a young girl who helped arrange an election night, and in preparing for this election night she found out that all her comrades were going down to vote, but she couldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201854	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201857	It is because of something that the rapporteur said about how not to become a Danish citizen could be experienced differently and where the rapporteur then says that if, for example, we are now going to be a Danish citizen. is a law student, it may feel like a very great punishment not to become a Danish citizen, and that for others it will feel like a minor punishment. I just need to understand whether it is the Radical Left's view that it is worse for law students not to become Danish citizens than it is for carpenters. So, is it the case that the more sore-skinned you are, the more relaxed you have to have access to becoming a Danish citizen, or what was that about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201935	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201938	Thank you very much. It has something to do with the fact that there are some posts you cannot get if it is the case that you do not have citizenship, and that does not apply to carpenters.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201954	Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506201955	I don't want this last one to be a question. It just has to be advice. I think that we should be careful from the Radical Left to bring such an education snobbery into the citizenship debate. So, I am absolutely convinced that becoming a Danish citizen is as great a gift for a carpenter as it is for a lawyer, and therefore the latter should not be a question here; it should simply be an invitation not to assume that not being a Danish citizen is a greater loss for a lawyer than for a carpenter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202027	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202030	That is, of course, true if that is what I said. But as mentioned to Mr. Morten Dahlin is not restricted to what jobs a carpenter can get as a carpenter, while there are some requirements in connection with e.g. official recruitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202057	We thank the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202125	Thank you for that, President. First of all, a great congratulations to all those who are now almost getting citizenship here today. There is no doubt that this has been a very long and difficult process for you, and I am really glad that you have finally come so close to getting civil rights on an equal footing with the rest of us. And when I have to take that small reservation, it is because today it is the case that citizenship is not acquired when the bill is adopted, but only then will it know what I will consider as an absurd handshake ceremony in which citizenship is implemented. But a lot of the people who have acquired Danish citizenship have lived in Denmark throughout their lives or at least for very, very many years, and many of them have worked hard to get this citizenship. For a citizenship is not something that in Denmark hangs on the trees or is easily accessible. It's actually the opposite. It is very, very difficult to become a citizen of Denmark, and there should be no doubt that we in the Enhedslisten believe that the rules that apply today in order to obtain citizenship are too tight and too rigid. We would actually like to see more people living in this country who have their lives here become full members of the Danish community, which you become when you become a Danish citizen. However, for many of the parties of the Folketing, the question of who can acquire citizenship has been politicised to an extreme degree. In the course of the debate here today, citizenship is perceived as a noble gift and not as what we consider to be, namely a right acquired by living in Denmark and contributing to Denmark. On the other hand, in many of the countries with which we compare, the acquisition of citizenship is an administrative act in which the applicant can apply on the basis of clearly formulated and transparent criteria. That is not the case in Denmark. As you know, it is the Danish Parliament that adopts a bill on citizenship notification, but a road ticket or a guy slip can make you lose the right to citizenship. And while in most other countries we usually compare ourselves to, you could get a reasoned refusal and have the opportunity to complain, that is not the case in Denmark. In particular, the recent agreement between the government and a number of parties from the right around a new circular shows that something is really wrong. This bill originally included 16 more names; 16 more people who were born here or have lived here most of their lives, and who a month ago after a long trial period thought that they should finally have their citizenship. After all, they live up to all the conditions. But with a spell the government changed the rules with the right wing, and with retroactive effect these 16 people were permanently deprived of the right to Danish citizenship. It is one of the most absurd and inhumane things I have experienced from this government, and to you 16, which has been affected, I would like to apologize; it is simply not fair. Excuse me, on behalf of all of us Danes who still have a bit of decency left in their bodies. In a rule of law there must be transparency and it must be clear what is the basis for the decisions that are being taken. What you have been exposed to is that you have passed the theoretical knowledge test and have come up to the driving test, where the motor expert says you are driving well, and you would be able to get a driving licence, but we have just changed the rules so that you do not get the driving licence; you have to start over, and you have to pay for it again, and you can never get it either. For us, it is an independent goal that the people who live here in Denmark and have their lives here integrate and become part of Denmark and thus become full members of the community that we have in this country. And that's what you do when you get Danish citizenship, among other things. Because you get the right to vote. We certainly do not want a large group of people to live in Denmark who are not Danish citizens and who cannot participate on an equal footing with everyone else, for example. in relation to being able to vote to the Folketing. On the contrary, I think it is fantastic if as many people as possible who live and live here in Denmark are full members of our society if they themselves express a desire to have citizenship and carry out a process where they can be entitled to it. I think that will actually bring us closer to each other and no longer apart. Unfortunately, we are on our way to a society in which a growing group of people must live here with the rest of us without the same full civil rights, which are, of course, part of the red-bellied passport and the opportunity to vote for a parliamentary election. This is a worrying development which Enhedslisten would like to help reverse, both by making it easier to obtain permanent residence permits, but also by making it easier and more transparent to obtain Danish citizenship. Having said that, of course, I think it is really, really nice and impressive that so many people have come through the narrow and difficult labyrinth that has been set up to become a Danish citizen, and we naturally support this bill and welcome them into our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202625	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202650	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Social Democracy, the Left and the Liberal Alliance, but very much also the New Civil and Danish People's Party for a really good debate on citizenship. I believe that Denmark will become a slightly better place with the agreement we have made, that people who have been sentenced to prison can no longer seek Danish citizenship, that one should have been in work, that we introduce significant carnage for people who have been fined for wearing a knife or drugs or various other things. It's one of those days when I thought: It's actually a pleasure to be a part of seeing that as private members of the Folketing we can help make Denmark a better place. In practice, thanks to our new agreement on citizenship, there are also 16, or it is 18, criminal foreigners who have now been removed from the list, which we are discussing here today. It's something you can actually feel and feel, and I think that's really, really fine. Of course, there are some parts we're sorry we didn't get by that is the way it is in politics. We would have liked to have had a ceiling on the number of citizenships from outside the EU and the Nordic countries. We would very much like to have individual treatment in committee. We would have liked to have had talks, and I hope we can continue to work on that, too, thanks to the Left for supporting us in it; that would be in Grundtvig's spirit. We Conservatives have fought hard to ensure that if you have received a prison sentence, you should not be able to obtain Danish citizenship. Nevertheless, we cannot vote in favour of the list as it stands here today because our other demands for Danish citizenship will not enter into force until shortly, which means that they will only have an effect on the legislative proposal that will be put forward in the autumn. That's one of them. the tighter requirements for employment, slightly stricter requirements for Danish knowledge, vessel for fines, etc. etc. We are actually sorry that we cannot vote in favour of the bill here. There's a lot of good people on there. Some of the group of countries we see the largest on the bill will typically be our neighbouring Sweden, Norway, Great Britain, etc., but we still believe that there are too many on the bill here that do not meet the other parts of our new agreement. So we expect to vote yellow and, in the meantime, we look forward to the new rules on citizenship being fully implemented in relation to the legislative proposal that will be put forward in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202917	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202921	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the circular that has been in force so far was also one that the rapporteur's party was behind, and that the rules in force are thus also some that the rapporteur has helped to put forward. I guess it's fair that those who have been looking for those rules are being treated for them. Otherwise, the rapporteur had to have ensured that those rules were changed somewhat earlier, but it has not succeeded in doing so fortunately. But the rules that were in the past are also some that the rapporteur's party has supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202958	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506202959	Now I've noticed that sir... Peder Hvelplund said earlier that Enhedslisten doesn't think citizenship is a gift, but a right, and there we just basically look at this differently. It is the Danish Parliament here, it is an absolute majority and it is up to each of us what we vote in the Parliament hall to decide who gets Danish citizenship. That is also why we voted yellow in the last vote. We thought there were too many criminals that there were too many people who did not speak properly Danish and who had not had a job etc. Until the new rules are fully in force and implemented in the forthcoming bill, we cannot vote green for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203037	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203040	It will be so interesting to see when the next bill comes, whether the Conservative People's Party has got some new rules that make you think that you cannot vote for that proposal either, and if you want to vote yellow again there. But I would just like to ask: what is it that makes the nurse who works 28 hours part-time impossible to obtain citizenship, or that the bricklayer who has been repatriated four months a year because of the weather should also not be able to obtain citizenship? What is the reasonableness of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203111	First of all, I cannot guarantee what we will vote in the autumn. There may have been parliamentary elections. Maybe I'm not sitting here. It may be that it is a completely new conservative group that has a different view. That is why it is always a snapshot from the Parliament sitting there when the bill is being discussed. This has been the case since the constitution was introduced. In relation to employment, the employment requirement we now have for citizenship is identical to that for permanent residence. So if you have been able to achieve it for a permanent stay, I do not think everything else is right, it is too much to make the same requirement when you have to have the Danish passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203144	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203204	Here we are again. The six-monthly mass allocation of Danish citizenship is not a joyous day, as some of the previous rapporteurs have put forward plunders on the contrary. For they are allocated thousands blindly on objective criteria and without each being treated responsibly by the elected representatives. Back in Grundtvig's time, when it was still seen as something special to become a Danish citizen, each applicant was weighed on a gold weight. I simply wish that politicians today took this enormous responsibility just as seriously; that they were willing to spend the time it takes to assess each one, of course with the best qualified at the top of the pile. Very recently, a new agreement was negotiated on Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, it became necessary for us in the New Citizens to say no to the agreement. I have been to numerous meetings and have fought for the Danes' right to live in freedom and security. But the majority would not tackle the root of the nettle and solve the problems from scratch. Although the agreement takes less steps in the right direction, it will, in my opinion, in practice lead to quite a few immigrants either being postponed or rejecting their application for Danish citizenship, and that is of course not good enough. In 2017, a young man from Iraq was granted Danish citizenship only 2 years later • 2 years later! As a foreigner, he would have been expelled. As a newly elected Danish citizen, he is untouchable and allowed to stay. I think that virtually all the elected representatives in this Chamber should think about this when they vote in favour of giving 1,944 people and 597 people the finest thing Denmark can give, namely Danish citizenship. They should know that almost one in four who were convicted of rape in Denmark by 2020 were foreigners, which is a strong over-representation. MENAPT women and descendants account for 2%. of the population of working age, but in the statistics of persons who have received cash benefits without interruption for 10 years or more, they represent 20 per cent. Although non-Western descendants with Danish citizenship are only 2.8%. of the population, they account for 25.3% of the population. by all registered gang members in 2020. Male nonwestern descendants almost one and a half times commit more crime than the average of all men in the population and I could go on. In this legislative proposal we are now considering, 67 are from Turkey, 59 from Pakistan, 54 from Iraq, 47 from Afghanistan, 47 from Iran, 24 from Somalia, 10 from Morocco, 6 from Syria and 2 from Lebanon, and unfortunately the slide continues. Overall, since the harmful alien law in 1983 up to and including 2020, 248,631 Danish citizenships have been distributed to foreigners, and with this bill we pass 250,000. In addition, citizenship comes to the children of foreigners who are not included in the figures of Denmark's statistics. It is a large proportion of the foreigners with whom we have poor experience, who have acquired and continue to acquire Danish citizenship. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries, where we know that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than the Danes when they come here. We do not believe that Danish citizenship should be granted frivolously, but with care to many, many fewer than today, only to the very, very few who have earned it; those who really benefit Denmark. We believe that if you commit crime and get an unconditional sentence of liberty, you should have taken away your Danish citizenship. This is an important part of the task that we have undertaken, namely to resolve foreign policy from the bottom up. It is our duty and responsibility to ensure Denmark and the Danes, not to guarantee the rights of foreigners. It is our duty and responsibility to ensure that Denmark is also Danish in 100 years' time. We owe it to our children and grandchildren. That is why, of course, we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203639	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203659	Thank you for today's debate on the bill on citizenship notification, where it is proposed that 1,944 people be notified of Danish citizenship. It is something special, as I have already said here from the platform, when you acquire Danish citizenship. The granting of citizenship is a great declaration of trust from society, which is why it is also quite reasonable that a number of demands are, of course, made on those who wish to become Danish citizens. That is why I am very pleased that we agreed in the circle behind the new citizenship agreement to change the rules on who can become Danish citizens in the future. With the new agreement, we have among other things. strengthened the existing requirement not to have committed crime, so that people who have been given a prison sentence can no longer become Danish citizens unless they have been granted a derogation from the Parliament's Committee on Bodily Rights. We have also introduced an employment requirement to ensure that you have made a contribution to Denmark before you can become a national, just as the birth test is extended by five issues, as it is absolutely crucial that you as a new citizen in Denmark understand and respect some of the fundamental values on which our society is based. We are still in an extraordinary situation because of the covid-19 pandemic. On this law, almost 2,000 people are subject to the requirement to participate in a constitutional ceremony. In view of the current situation, however, it remains the view of the government that we should also suspend the requirement for handshakes this time, but that the ceremonies, apart from the handshake, can continue to be held well in accordance with the current health guidelines. I hope that the many people will have a very good day and that they will be happy and proud of their Danish citizenship. On behalf of the Danish Government, I would also like to congratulate all of you who have reached out to Danish citizenship and are now a very significant step closer. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203911	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506203914	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. After all, we will not be able to discuss the new agreement. So, the new circular will not be able to discuss it here in the Folketing, because that is not the rules or the possibilities. However, I would just like to ask the Minister what is the reasonableness of the employment requirement, which indeed also applies to permanent residence, but which now also applies to citizenship, and which has as a consequence that young people who have been born and raised in Denmark and are taking an education must complete their education and then wait for four years, when they must have had 31⁄2 years of employment, and then they must go through an application process before they can have their citizenship. So young people born and raised in Denmark typically come up somewhere in the late 20s or perhaps early 30s before they can get the full civil rights. What is the reasonableness of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204011	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204013	Well, there is no reasonable point in that, and I understand the question, because not all the details are set out in the agreement that has been published. But one of the details that has not been published is that there will be an exception for people under 25 years of age. There is, of course, a group of between 18 and 19 years of age who, if they apply there, will have permanent residence under more relaxed conditions, and they will also have the opportunity to subsequently apply for Danish citizenship. They won't be covered by this employment requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204042	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204045	But that will still mean that those who miss having applied for the opportunity between the 18th and 19th years will continue to be prevented from both being able to have permanent residence but also from being able to obtain citizenship. This is something that is going to hit a large group of people who are born and raised in Denmark. Now it may be that the motion for a resolution on reintroducing access to the declaration is adopted. We can hope that will solve that problem. But then it can be said that another group that is affected is of course those who have part-time work, or those of whom the Minister himself is aware, by bricklayers who are being sent back for part of the year because of a lack of work. Why should they be prevented from acquiring citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204125	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204126	Many of those who acquire Danish citizenship have recently been permanently resident and will have lived up to the conditions for permanent residence. But it is true that everyone can be hit by unemployment, even over a winter. That's why there's also this opportunity for 1⁄2 years of unemployment. That's 31⁄2 years out of 4 years. But it is true that if there is more than 1⁄2 years of unemployment, you start to get into problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204151	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Since none of those present have asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210506204210	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 7 May, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
