ParlaMint-DK_20210119163100	The meeting is open. I am not going to start the vote yet, because we need to divide agendas, but they should be on the right track. It will take a few minutes and then we will get started and, by the way, there will be not so many votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163516	The sitting is resumed. The items listed as No. 1, 2 and 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163541	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163547	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. And as I usually say, you have to check if you have the correct name in your voting panel, and if you are, you can vote now. The vote will end. In favour of voting 90 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against voting 1 (LA), abstention 2 (NB). The bill passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163641	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163645	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote: 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163718	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163722	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 86 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and 1 (DF) (by mistake)) voted against 9 (DF, NB and LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163752	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163813	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163820	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163845	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163850	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 of a minority (RV), joined by a minority (SF), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163919	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119163941	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119164007	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119164012	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119164040	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119164047	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Draft law amending the Law on Arms and Explosives, etc. B. Draft law amending the Law on Arms and Explosives, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The division of the bill has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119164116	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119164122	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 95. Please leave the hall so we can clean up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165016	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. First of all, we must welcome the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165057	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution. This is a very relevant and important debate that we have raised here and which, of course, also regularly appears in the media and on various platforms of debate. There should be no doubt that, on a moral level, I fully agree with the proposers that it is completely in the woods when young women, sometimes quite first and foremost, are romanticising a serious social problem when you give young women the impression that they have to go out and be their very own version of Pretty Woman. The less glamorous reality is, after all, for the vast majority of people a different one. In the worst case scenario, sugardating can lead to a life of prostitution for these women with all the psychological adverse effects that potentially follow in the wake of this kind of lifestyle. According to the criminal code, it is a criminal offence to operate on the basis of the prostitution of others. It is also a criminal offence to act as an intermediary by providing customers for the prostitute. Just as it is a crime to exploit the prostitute or to rent hotel rooms for prostitution. In addition, it is also a criminal offence to help a person under the age of 18 have sexual intercourse or other sexual relations with a customer for payment. Those rules are basically sensible to me and the government. These are rules that protect prostitute young women from being exploited, but at the same time I am also open to the need to see whether the rules adequately take into account the digital reality that we have all become a part of. However, a change in the rule of law, as proposed in the motion for a resolution, is not so straightforward. Sugardating is not a defined concept. It is not necessarily a question of fixing a fixed price for a sexual benefit. Often, it will certainly be a matter of one party paying for an expensive dinner and possibly giving gifts and the like, which may also involve, but not necessarily requires, a sexual relationship. The websites do not provide sexual services at fixed prices. They communicate contact between the parties, who then themselves agree what they want. This certainly does not mean that this is not a problem, as I said at the outset. However, a genuine ban on websites that facilitate sugardating would risk hitting ordinary dating sites that aim to communicate contact between equal parties. So, just with these comments, there is clearly a complex area which requires thorough consideration. That is why I would also like to start an inquiry into whether the criminal code sufficiently embraces this area. Having said that, I would also like to highlight here some of the things that have already been done, in other words the initiatives that have been taken. In November 2020, the Government, together with the proposers and a wide range of parties, has concluded an agreement on the mobilisation of the reserve for social, health and labour market measures. There is a budget of 14.5 million. kr. of an application pool aimed at preventing prostitution-like relationships among young people, in particular sugardating. In addition, the government has set up an inter-ministerial working group on children and young people's digital life and education, which includes: looks at possible initiatives to strengthen children and young people's digital lives and to create more and better security for children and young people on digital media. The working group will include: consider possible measures to limit the exposure of children and young people to harmful content. In addition, the government has set up an inter-ministerial working group on the regulation of social media, which includes: look at possible concrete initiatives and solutions regarding the regulation of illegal conditions on social media. Basically, therefore, I share the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution about our young people. The government has therefore already launched a series of measures aimed at preventing a phenomenon such as sugardating. However, the government cannot support the resolution, as it involves a number of complicated reflections on how we should deal with criminal law in relation to this border area between prostitution and ordinary voluntary dating between people over the age of sex. Instead, I would ask my official to examine thoroughly whether there is a need for new legislation in this area. When the investigation is complete, I will take up the question again. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165608	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165612	Well, thank you. I welcome the fact that, after all, this was not a blank rejection by the Minister, but that this area will actually be looked at honestly and honestly. I think that is very good, so I thank you for that. One of the Minister's predecessors, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen refused to make a legal analysis of this area, so I want to know if the Minister will be involved. Indeed, there is at least one criminal law professor who believes that, under certain conditions, there could be penalties for burglary in relation to facilitating such websites here. So I just want to know if this is something that is part of the Minister's thinking about a study.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165704	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165705	Well, it is. That is also the point of looking at whether there is a need for new legislation in this area. Whether a specific situation today could be punished under the criminal code requires that we assess the very specific circumstances. I shall not be able to relate to whether or not this will be the case. For me, what is also in the proposal here is in fact more interesting, namely that we are dealing here with a relatively new area, which has some unfortunate implications, and that is why we need to look at whether the regulatory framework that is around this is good enough in this area, but, as I mentioned, in a number of other areas where the digital world is asking new questions and confronting us, especially young people with new problems and new challenges, new opportunities, but also opportunities for abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165756	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165758	Thank you. I think that is also very positive, because then it may be that we will finally have the legal investigation which we did not succeed in imposing on a civil minister. I should also like to know whether the Minister thinks it is a problem that this can be advertised in principle. In other words, we usually take all sorts of protection considerations in relation to advertising, and right now we are discussing intensely whether to ban gambling advertising because we know that it encourages gambling. So does the Minister not think that there really is a problem here too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165831	Yes. And when I put it that way, it's because when I was young, you didn't meet on the Internet. There you met at parties or where you met. But it is my impression that very, very many young people today, far from sugardating, actually meet each other online. That means that we have no desire to strike down and criminalise, that is to say, that is where you find your girlfriend and your loved one. Without having to name names, there are more in my own department who are good young people who have met their boyfriends, wives, men there. Sorry, it got a little long.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165913	It's fine. The next speaker is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119165919	Thank you. I've also been inside printing out a lot about sugardating. There are, among other things: made such an overview of the sugardating pages. There are quite a lot of pages, but what I really want to ask the Minister is: in relation to these websites, how do you make sure that it is not children, that it is not young girls aged 15, 16, 17 who go in and create a profile on this? Are there any requirements for this in relation to these websites? Because I can worry about that, even in relation to the fact that more people are offering sugardating abroad. So does the Minister have an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170007-2	It would probably be a bit too much to give me one minute to answer the question which is quite comprehensive. It is true that we are in a regulatory problem area, and it is also true, as it is pointed out, that the websites which are based abroad are more difficult to take regulatory action against. There may be, depending on the design, that I cannot see right on the stand ■ be offences with young women already today. However, this requires more attention to be paid to the very specific situations in order to assess whether this would be a problem of criminal law today. In fact, the question also points to the need to look at it here and find out what the regulatory framework should be like around this, so that we do not hit ordinary dating, but hit what can develop into the exploitation of young women.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170101	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170103	It is not certain that the Minister for Justice can answer that, but does the Minister know if there is a demand today that when you set up these pages for the purpose of sugardating, you should be 18 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170121	My IT skills and what I have, in terms of IT, and in terms of resources, simply do not enable me to answer that question. If I were to shoot from my hip like that, I would not think that there are any demands in this direction as far as young people are concerned, i.e. that they should not be able to create a website if that is the question. But I just don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170143	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. I'm gonna ask the Justice Minister and everyone else to just take one of those booze rags and then booze off before the next speaker comes on. Even the minister has to do it. That's great. The next speaker we should welcome is Mr. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170218	Thank you. I brought my own pen up here so I don't have to touch that pencil there. Thank you to the SF for putting forward a very good and relevant motion for a resolution. Apparently, the problem is. The network and the possibilities to interact explode. This is a very good thing, and there are a lot of pitfalls and very bad things. That is why I think it was very important, in the police agreement we concluded before Christmas, that more resources should be made available in the police to accept reports of digital violations. We have supported those services, among others. At Save the Child, which is about digital assault, sexual assault. We've set up a digital patrol to patrol. It's all something that's not directly related to this question. Then why do I start there? I do, of course, because it is going extremely fast and there are many grey areas. It is important that we not only give up but actually do what we can, both in terms of prevention and in terms of the resources available to the police, to intervene where illegal acts and abuses are taking place. And then there's this question about the prostitution on the I fully agree that there is a need to make an increased effort and to focus on it. Is the solution then to ban websites that are about sugardating? I just don't think so. I think you'll just call it something else or make groups on Facebook or make apps or whatever it may be. I believe that creativity will be at a much higher rate than the pace at which we in the Folketing can ban one or the other service. That's why I don't really believe in the solution. But the problem is there, and that is why the solutions must also, for me, be about something that is independent of whether it is one form of platform, that is, whether it is something that is going on in reality or whether it is something that is going on online. That is why I am glad to hear from the Minister for Justice about looking at this and looking at whether the legislation we have is sufficiently geared to the situation we are in, and then we should try to find solutions that rise above one platform or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170441	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. I just need to remind you that you can't sit on each chair. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170452	Thank you. After all, the Minister said that we want to preserve the ruffle clause, and it is precisely about not making money out of the prostitution of others. If you want to preserve the situation in such a way that you cannot make money from the prostitution of others, what do you really do with the pages where it is about money? What NedenYoung says is that this is about money, and the people they meet are preoccupied with making money, and ergo it is sex for money, and thus there are some who make money from prostitution. Then how can it not be an idea to make sure that this isn't happening by putting this area under the ruffle paragraph? Maybe sir can. Jeppe Bruus solved it a little bit for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170549	I don't know if I can. But I would like to say that, far along the way, I agree that, if it is obvious on the Internet, then I assume that it must be covered by the legislation. And if that is not covered well enough by the legislation we have, then I think that is one of the things we should look at. It does not, of course, make it more legal that it is done on a website, rather than that it is done in a backyard. On the contrary, I think that it will lead some young girls, who may start very innocently, to hardcore prostitution. I think that is a huge problem. That is why I think that is one of the things we should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170622	Mrs. Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170624	Yes, thank you for that answer. And I totally understand that now we have to look at a lot of things, and then we'll take some time before we get a solution. But one of the things you could jump into right away was to make sure that there was a requirement for NemID validation, so that we will certainly sort out those who are under 18 years of age. And I have actually taken the trouble to ask a question about: can you? And you can actually do that. So was it something you could take and work on right away? Because then we will make sure that we take care of the young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170658	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170659	Well, in a different context, that's one of the things we're discussing in relation to platforms at all, i.e. this about identification. So I'm thinking it's very natural that you look at it. I am simply not wise enough to be able to assess for or against on a stand-by basis. But I'm thinking that's one of the things you have to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170717	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to spritze off. The next rapporteur we should welcome is Mrs Inger Støjberg from the Left. We've made a rule that you walk down the stairs and that you walk up the ramp. Then we've all got it. Great, we'll make it. Here you go, Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119170746	Thank you. According to TV 2, the website SugarDaters.dk has more than 130,000 users in Denmark. So that's a lot of them. For most people, it's a choice they make. Some of them do so because, unfortunately, they feel forced into it, and then you can also be caught in it afterwards. I do not understand that one can choose to be a Sugardate, but I must also say that I am very sympathetic to those for whom it has consequences. Many of them have created their Sugardate profile when they were quite young, and they are often girls, and some of them have financial problems, others come into a race that they cannot get out of again. We need to help them. The Socialist People's Party is proposing that section 233 of the Criminal Code should be amended to include sugardating in the future. This means that it must be illegal to offer, disseminate or provide sugardating, for example. via websites like SugarDater.dk. The Left does not believe that this is the right way to go. A ban on these websites will hardly stop sugardating. It is simply forcing the phenomenon underground, so to speak, and we do not believe that it will improve the situation for the girls, on the contrary. Instead, we must take preventive action, which is why I am very pleased that the Left has helped to allocate 14.5 million. kr. to prevent precisely sugardating in the social, health and labour market reserve. I think that's a good start, but that doesn't mean we're done. We must continue to look at prevention, and then we must look at how we can make things better for those girls who have ended up in a vulnerable situation. The Left would like to work to help those who have been caught in this out of it. But we will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled here. Then you will never know what the future holds, but if it is the last time I stand here as a legal rapporteur on behalf of the Left, I would very much like to thank the Minister for his cooperation, not least, but certainly also the rapporteurs around. But like I said, you never know what the future holds.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171034	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for your greeting. The rapporteur must have just one question with him. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171044	Thank you. I took note of the fact that the rapporteur of the Left said that the phenomenon is being forced underground and that it does not disappear. I think I very much agree that it does not disappear and that it also existed before we got these platforms, but does the rapporteur not agree that it has become very easy to move into this field? It takes a smartphone, and all young people do today. It takes you to create a profile, and then you're on it. And it actually matters that it's so easy, because it means that a lot more young people will be able to access this prostitution scene. Does the rapporteur not think that this in itself is a separate problem which needs to be addressed with some form of regulation, so that we have raised the bar a little in order to get into this kind of grey-zone prostitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171136	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171138	I do not disagree at all with the fact that it has become very easy, but in that it is not a ban on smartphones, and it would probably be a strange ban to come along with, but a ban on certain websites, I do not believe, unfortunately, that this phenomenon would come to an end. So the smartphone is still gone; so is the iPad, and all the other technology aids that we have. And it has to be said, just as the Minister also said, that a large part of dating life, including the part that we would like to promote, if we can say so, is going on through new technology, and that is just the way it is. That is why I simply do not believe that this phenomenon would come to an end, for example. to have a ban on these websites. However, we would like to look at prevention very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171233	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171235	But does the rapporteur really think that it should be absolutely free to run a website where Radio24syv has documented that what is going on is prostitution? It's sex that's being sold, and it's customers and clients that get connected. Should it be free of charge, and should you just be able to say as a platform that you know nothing about what is going on, that it does not belong to them and that people can do what they want? After all, however, they are called sugardates.dk, which is a well-known phenomenon and which everyone knows what is all about. I guess you can figure out what's going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171317	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171318	You know, it's a bit of a question of how to help these girls as they are primarily, right? Do you help them by making it shady, or do you help them by doing so in the open, and then perhaps you have an opportunity to simply show that there is an opportunity to get out of it? And so I would just like to say that I also believe that parents have a responsibility to talk to their young people about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171343	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171348	Thank you. And that is, in fact, just a follow-up to the last part of the rapporteur's speech. I certainly hope that this is not the last time we hear the rapporteur as the legal rapporteur, and whatever happens, I would like to thank him for his cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171404	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171407	I hope that many of us will work together on a great many fronts in the future in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171416	Thank you. And thank you for drinking off. The next to be welcomed is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171433	Thank you. I certainly hope that this is not the last time that Mrs Inger Støjberg will stand as a legal rapporteur on this platform. I should also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the cooperation we have had. This motion for a resolution is about SF wanting websites providing, communicating or otherwise facilitating sugardating to be included in section 233 of the Criminal Code on ruffle. And it is about requiring the government to present proposals on how to regulate claims, calls for and advertising for sugardating targeted young people, and to present proposals for initiatives to prevent and mitigate the consequences of sugardating. The aim is for the government, with the proposal, to also present proposals on how to regulate influences indirectly or directly in the future by encouraging, claiming, advertising or otherwise influencing young people for sugardating. The SF also wants the government to make an explicit commitment to advertising for sugardating. There, too, we have been watching and looking at how Sugardating is being advertised, and we have also been following it in relation to the fact that more influencers have been advertising it. The proposal therefore contains two clues: that sugardating is covered by the criminal code's clause, and to restrict or prohibit sugardating by the use of advertisements, ads and websites. When, as an influencer, you have 329,000 followers and you call for a profile to be created on a sugardating page, you must also assume that you can end up in a shitstorm. At least that's what happened to the person who did this. Today, according to the Consumer Council, it does not seem illegal to advertise this when young people are over 18 years of age. Therefore, it has been thought that it is not a breach of the Marketing Act. As has already been said, we have set aside several means to prevent this, and in the Danish People's Party we are quite open to looking at initiatives on what we can do. At the moment we are also waiting for a report from VIVE, and I believe that a research project is also under way. And I think it would be appropriate to include it in further work as well. So my starting point was that we in Parliament could agree on some kind of report, because we all agree that it is important, and we all agree that we must do everything we can to prevent and inform. The concern is that there are some young girls who may see this as very rosy that you can have the Guccitaske you've always dreamed of getting but maybe don't think so much about the consequences that can follow. So I think we should continue working on this, and I'll also come up with some follow-up questions in relation to requirements for these websites. In this context, it is of course deeply worrying if no one controls age it is deeply worrying if there is a 15-year-old who can sit and create a profile on such a sugardating page. So all in all, we're open to looking at what we can do to straighten up, enlighten and everything else in this area. The nest in Aalborg has been out to warn against sugardating, compared to more girls ending up in prostitution if they have only started sugardating. And it is clear that we must do everything we can to prevent it. So those were the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171841	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171846	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for recognising the issue and also being willing to look into something. I am, of course, also concerned about whether we can make a report on this. I think it is important that we move forward with the issue. I just need to ask you a few specific questions. In relation to advertising this type of service, I don't think I caught the position of the Danish People's Party. Should we ban it, or should we regulate it, or what should we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119171921	When I read this suggestion, I thought of the extra magazine's ads as well. They have such an ad page for the purchase of sex. I think that, when we talk about these websites, it is extremely important for me not to attract young people under the age of 18, that we are not dealing with children. As far as the second part is concerned, I think that SF has a point in that it is such a rather difficult grey area legally. That's in relation to these sides, which, of course, makes some kind of profit. They make money on it. Perhaps not in exactly the same way as the pimp, but somehow there is profit between them. There's somehow a middleman. But it is, I think, important that we get it out legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172016	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172018	Well, when I ask about the specifics about advertising, it's because the influencer Fie Laursen made a claim on this, and that is of course particularly problematic in relation to her young followers. But I can be so surprised when we discuss the regulation of gaming advertising and I know that the Danish People's Party is interested in that. That is why I want to know whether you are equally concerned about regulating this area, so that you can at least look at what we do with it. Because I think there's something problematic about advertising this type of service.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172058	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172059	It is true, as the rapporteur says, that with the influences that have been advertising this. And it is also deeply reprehensible and morally wrong. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are quite ready to see whether we can somehow bring the ends together in relation to what we can do on the part of the Folketing. In addition, I also think it is important to include the last studies in this area, because then it may make us a lot wiser on which path is best to go, including as regards the tools we need in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172134	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172138	Thank you. It is always interesting to hear where there are dividing lines, also among those you stand close to on other points. So for us in New Citizen, sexual life is one of the most private. We also need there to be a limit to the state's commitment to citizens' privacy. We fully recognise that we have a need to prevent sugardating, but we think it is primarily the parents' responsibility to raise their children, their girls and their boys to understand that this is not the way forward. Now I understand that the DF believes that there are positive tactics in this, also in relation to a ban on the websites, and I have to ask about the ads, such as those on the Extra Bladet and other media, for escort girls, and what else is of massage girls, which are of course available today, and which are real ads for sexual performance, which are sold for money: should it also be banned if it is up to DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172242	The rapporteur can, of course, dispute my words as the rapporteur wishes. Well, I'm sure that if the rapporteur himself had a young girl of perhaps 15 years of age who had established herself on this surgarding page, she would probably be a worried mother, and I fully understand that. However, rather than standing here every time and every time to hack down on other people's motions for resolutions, I think it is extremely positive that a resolution should be tabled and that we should have the debate in relation to this. So we are just from the Danish People's Party open and accommodating to what we can do better. What can we do better to prevent? What can we do better to help those girls who no longer want to be in prostitution? So I just think you should play with open cards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172335	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172337	I do not think that there is any reason to hang on to something that we agree with, and I understand that there is an agreement here that we do not just share on that point. What really worries me is when the rapporteur says whether, if you had a 15-year-old daughter, you would not think it was a bad thing. I would personally be really, really sorry about how I had raised my girl if, at 15 years of age, she decided that she should have sex with or offer other services to men in order to collect fine shoes and expensive bags and whatever else you get. I mean, I'd see it all personally as a defeat. I wouldn't blame it on a website.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172417	I fully agree with the rapporteur that parents have a huge responsibility for upbringing. There are also young girls who do not live at home, who are housed and living in a place of residence or other, and there you often hear that it can be easy for older men to exploit them. So I think you should look wider in relation to it and look at what we can meet about. No, we cannot vote in full for the proposal as it stands here and now, but we think that there are positive tactics in it and, as I say, we would like to be involved in meeting a report or in reaching agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172500	Thank you, Mrs Adsbøl, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur to whom we are to welcome is Mr. Kristian Hedegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119172535	Thank you. My name is Hegaard Den fg. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It's okay. Thank you, first of all, to the SF for focusing on the subject, the so-called Sugardating, on which there is no clear definition. In the motion for a resolution it is defined as the relationship between one party, which gives the other party typically a younger woman, a sugar baby gifts in return for association, intimacy and sex. I'm going to start by dwelling a little on this gift thing, because while there are no definitions of sugardating as a concept, there are definitions of gift as a concept. It is often described as a free benefit, which is usually given at the expense of the giver, without any consideration, so that something is given without any return, as when I had my birthday yesterday and received some gifts, I should not give anything back for those gifts. So when the wording of the motion for a resolution is about gifts given in return for something, it means that there will no longer be a gift, as long as the return and gift are a contradiction between them. In addition, there may be situations, as the motion for a resolution also shows, where there is more social contact, in other words where the compensation for it may be a restaurant visit or something. So there is probably a broader definition of the concept of sugardating than that which is just set out in the motion for a resolution here. However, I think I understand what the motion for a resolution is going to do, and I quite agree with that aim, namely that as far as possible it must be prevented, that so few young women at risk should be exposed to these harmful conditions, and that the dependence that we hear about young girls receiving from these gifts is very detrimental to their continued presence in this, whether it is being set up on the Internet or outside the Internet. However, just as with prostitution, the Radical Left does not believe that sugardating, which is also often referred to as grey zone prostitution, disappears by banning it or forbids the websites where it happens. But we have to help vulnerable women, vulnerable girls, vulnerable boys and men, or whoever gets into this, get out. And there is also the major problem already raised here by several people regarding influencers; at least someone has made money from advertising or encouraging or romanticising Sugardating to young people under the age of 18 and even young people under the age of 15. We would very much like to look at how to do something about it. What can be difficult, I imagine, by regulating it very much, is if you do not make money from it as influencer, but instead just talk about your sexual experience or preferences or whatever it may be, for then it may be harder to do anything about it. But these cases where money is being made from it, we would like to look at, that is, when there is real marketing. But banning websites where so-called sugardating takes place, we are somewhat uncertain whether it is appropriate in practice, because what if it happens on websites and apps like Snapchat and Facebook and other types of dating sites or dating apps, do they have to shut down? That is why the scope and effect of this motion for a resolution is somewhat unclear, but we are very concerned about prevention, so that particularly vulnerable girls, who are probably the largest target group, do not end up in it. So on the basis of this, the Radical Left cannot support the resolution, but we have great sympathy for the intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173003	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Radical Left rapporteur. So we will continue in the rapporteur's line to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173032	Thank you. I agreed with the majority of what the Minister of Justice said and, as Mrs Inger Løjberg said, it does not happen very often anyway, so I do not know exactly what to say. However, I think it is worth noting that there are some gaps in this motion for a resolution, which comes from the SF, which does not take into account what else reality looks like both on the dating market and on the web. In the Enhedslisten, we are working to eliminate the inequality that exists between gender, between social classes and ethnic groups, as well as the poverty that both nationally and internationally, directly or indirectly causes people to end up in prostitution, and when I read the motion for a resolution and the comments, I have no doubt that the intentions behind this SF proposal are good intentions either. The SF is concerned about the physical and psychological damage that Sugardating can cause it is a concern that we share in the Enhedslisten and it is also wanted to look at prevention as well as mitigation of the possible consequences that may be for these typically young people as Sugardates. We also agree with this on the part of the Enhedslisten. However, I am of the impression that surgarding is to a large extent not done via the established websites dedicated to sugardating, but it is also happening elsewhere. In any case, it can be said that many ordinary dating sites, such as those in the United Kingdom, have been found. Tinder and Grindr see profile lyrics where you are asked if you miss sugar, or candy-emojis, which is an expression of exactly the same. Those dating sites will be hit by this proposal, and I would think that was really a shame, just as we also see that there are facebook groups for the same thing. We see online forums like both Reddit and other places where there is also sugardating, even though these forums have been set up for some very different purposes, and that is why I think that the proposal is a little misguided. I do not think that a ban on Sugardating websites will make a difference to the people that we all want to help and watch out for in here. I don't think that the amount of people who Sugardate will change at all. On the other hand, I believe that we are just seeing that the Sugardat will move somewhere else, and that is actually what is part of our concern about this motion for a resolution. For Enhedslisten, it is important that we do not put in place legislation that could potentially harm those who make money selling sexual services themselves. Well, in fact, in our good intentions, we can actually move these problems somewhere where it gets so shady that we don't have the opportunity to help them, and I would think that was too bad. In order to prevent and reduce damage, it is important that we have a thorough foundation of knowledge on which we can stand, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl also mentioned, and that is why we are also looking forward to having their report on the sale of sexual services in Denmark here this year. The report will then give us an estimate of the extent of sex purchases in Denmark, a coverage of the social background and living conditions of sex workers and an exit analysis that maps the extent to which persons selling sex want to get out of the industry. I hope that this report will provide us with a better basis for discussing, just as I hope that the working party to which the Minister referred will soon come up with something. Because we have many problems with social media, and it is often referred to that the solution lies in this working group, and now we have just been waiting for a very long time for this working group, so I hope that something will come soon from the working group. Finally, in relation to influencers, I think it is important that we look at the marketing law and that we get things done properly so that it is not only the influencer's responsibility, but that it is also the companies with which the influencer cooperates. That is the one thing I think is important. The second thing I think we should consider is whether we can require the Marketing Act to make a mark on the target audience of advertising, for example. that botox advertising is not for young people, but is for some others, that is to say that in reality, as you do with movies, computer games and other things, you say that there is an age limit here. I think we could copy that to the way influencers work. At least I think we should consider that. As I said, I very much agree with the intentions of the resolution, but unfortunately I believe that it will do more harm than good. We cannot support it in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173543	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173549	Thanks for the speech. I get a little curious as to whether Enhedslisten would also like to get rid of the current ruffle clause. I mean, are you going to completely legalize the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173606	No, we won't. And I also think that we should look at which cases, as the SF rapporteur himself mentioned, can be covered by the current ruffle clause. I think this is an interesting place to look, and it is one of the other places where our penal code is not updated in relation to the digital reality in which we live.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173624	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173627	I'm getting a little curious about what these are for some solutions that Enhedslisten is proposing in relation to this area that obviously needs to be reviewed. I think the big difference is that in the Ekstrabladet women themselves advertise there may also sometimes be middlemen, and we also see judgments for this kind of thing, but in this area it is, in fact, a company that is behind it and that facilitates it and makes money on it, and I think that is actually a significant difference when you look at the ruffle part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173702	As I said, some of what we see as the solution is, first of all to wait for this report, so there are some people working on it here, and we think it's worth taking with us, and then we think it must be part of the solution especially to look at them as guardians to solve some social problems, because the cash aid for young people is so low that they can't actually get a roof over their heads. There is something else that needs to be done, other than banning sugardating. I believe, as I said, that if you go the way of prohibition, you will move the problems in the wrong place. I think we need to know more about why people use sugardating, because I think there can be many different reasons. There have also been several articles about it in Jyllands-Posten today that say that it is actually a variety of social layers in our society that use this. I find that very interesting to look at in terms of how we get rid of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173750	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. It is now the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119173801	Thank you, President. Thank you to the SF for this motion for a resolution which proposes criminalising the provision, dissemination and facilitation of Sugardating via websites and the like. I would like to start by stating that the Conservative People's Party fully shares the intention that no young people are being pushed into sugardating without being able to understand the consequences. However, we do not agree that a ban is the best possible solution. Above all, a ban can be difficult to enforce. Adult people can make the agreements they want, even if we criminalise the supply and dissemination of sugardating. What one might fear is that a ban could result in a market that would simply move away from the established websites, where there is at least some regulation, to a market where the young people's risk of being cheated and exploited is even greater. We can't risk that. As I mentioned earlier, the Conservative People's Party fully shares the SF's intention that no young people should end up in sugardating, which may have major consequences for young people, both now and also later in life. But we have to remember that Sugardating isn't illegal. Therefore, it does not make much sense to criminalise supply and dissemination via websites. It is also important for me to point out that adult people have to decide for themselves what agreements they make. These are the young people we need to protect and watch out for. What I understand is that on these websites you have to be 18 years old to get in. That means that there is some regulation. So in the Conservative People's Party, we acknowledge that this area is difficult. We would also like to support measures that make it easier to look after our young people. But we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119174007	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then the New Citizens' rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119174037	Prostitution is an emergency solution, a way out for the poor. Sugardating is rather an expression of an upper-class phenomenon, where what is desired is material luxury. We, as politicians, may disagree with the moral considerations behind sugardate. Personally, I simply do not understand that the need for an expensive bag or a pair of fine shoes can cause a woman to sugardate. It is infinitely far away from me, and if I had my own daughters, who would have allowed themselves to have sexual services or other forms of association with men, I would feel that I had failed as a mother. But relationships between adult people who want to get together in voluntary relationships are not therefore something that the state must go in and interfere with. Sexual life is the most private thing, and if the power of the state is to have boundaries, then sex life between adults and authoritative people is also the last thing that the state has to go in and put legislation around. It is clear from the proposal that the proposers would like to prevent Sugardating and mitigate the consequences of it for typical young women. In New Citizens we want to help prevent sugardating, and we believe that the best prevention of sugardating is a stronger family with civil values and virtues, because in the bourgeois family we are committed to each other. The bourgeois family has your well-being and well-being in mind, it knows you better than the state will ever be able to do, and the bourgeois family throws you a bailout and mocks your enemies. In the bourgeois family, we commit to each other. The bourgeois family is an obligation. The bourgeois family moves heaven and earth to help the daughter who believes that sugardating is a meaningful or good way to go in life, but it does not necessarily condemn the enlightened Sugardates, who are grown up and have made their own choices in life. The motion for a resolution must understand that it is not sugardating as such that is banned, but to make money from having websites that facilitate sugardating. It is based on an underlying consideration that sugardating is similar to prostitution. However, the picture is more nuanced, for where the pimp prostitutes others who make their bodies available to their customers, Sugardating websites depend on users registering for themselves without making money on individual intercourse. It seems to me, and it is also acknowledged in the observations made in the motion for a resolution, that surgarding also involves situations completely without sexual relations, where the parties, for example. Going to dinner together or otherwise having intimate relationships without subsequent sex and peace be with it. It also seems to me that there is an underlying comparison of Sugardating websites with a raw, prostitute street environment or brothel business on the basis of the motion for a resolution. And it hits next to the target. Very different dynamics can occur with coercion and control in a physical environment than do on a website with user profiles that can be deleted. And there is a real risk that you ban one, you push people into the other. Finally, it can be said that sugardating websites may seem like a forum for a transaction, but this transaction could in principle just as well take place through Extrabladet's ads for massage girls, on Tinder and on Facebook or in the city at a café or bar. It is an unpleasant truth that sex and intercourse sometimes have an element of transaction, as an underlying prerequisite. The restriction of sugardating should therefore not lie in a vain attempt to ban and interfere on the part of the state, but with the citizens and the families of sometimes lost daughters and sons. Finally, I should like to point out that we in the New Citizens are, of course, willing to see whether an age limit should be set and, above all, how we can ensure that it is respected. But the question of an age limit is fundamentally different from a ban on Sugardating websites which represent one for us to see completely unnecessary and drastic interference by the state in something that is the Danes' personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119174500	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then we need to get a little booze off, and then it's the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119174527	Thank you. It is a difficult subject that we are dealing with here, not so much politically, I think, but more the considerations that lie ahead of the political one. Because they're about something like that, that even if you can think that all sorts of ways to live are strange and weird and wrong, it's also part of becoming an adult and mature person that you just like to accept that other people can live in other ways than you think is ideal. I come from a liberal party, and liberals have spent centuries developing ideas that other people are actually allowed to live differently from what you think is ideal. We feel familiar with the fact that one thing is politics, another is private life, and in private life you have to do what you want. I do not always think that others with other political starting points have the same familiarity with this, in other words that there is something that is non-political and where the political like should stay out. But you also see it occasionally with joy. For example, I have. Once read an interview with the Minister of Justice, who talked about what his children were allowed to do and what his children were not allowed to do, and there the interview understood that they were allowed to get a ring in their noses, but they were not allowed to join LA. It was of course, I think, with a smile in the mouth, because I do not expect the Minister for Justice to impose sanctions on his children or cut off their hands if they nevertheless joined LA. So the Minister for Justice has at least the political maturity that one can be against something that people do without necessarily being banned and without having to be enforced as a ban. It's the same with this phenomenon we call sugardating or prostitution if it gets even worse. It can be difficult, and I have no doubt for a moment that if I had a daughter I only have sons I would teach her that she should reach a place in life where she was not dependent on being able to score a certain man to get the benefits she wanted, but that instead she should have reached a position where she could get herself what she wanted by her own efforts. Nevertheless, it is a very common phenomenon and some, perhaps also part of the attraction between the sexes, of all sorts of different factors. I'm currently watching a movie I haven't seen it finished at HBO with Meryl Streep, where three old girlfriends go out on a luxury boat trip from New York to London, and one of those old girlfriends is there for a single purpose, because she hasn't succeeded, despite the fact that she's now around 70 years old, to find a wealthy man, but now she intends it to be now, because she wants a luxurious life that she thinks she is entitled to. I have no doubt for a moment that this woman is hunting for a man who is both sweet and nice and nice to look at and intelligent etc., but it is obviously also an attraction value if the man has something on the coffin floor so that you can have a luxurious life. Apparently, it adds something to the man's attraction value. And the rest of us are fooled by things that get shot in the lips and think it can look nice if you have a mouth. In other words, there are all sorts of completely irrational things at stake when you choose a partner, and the fact that you can bring a materially safe life is obviously part of it. At any rate, the point is that we do not think that young people should be sugarded in order to have the life they want, but we do not want to ban all kinds of life that we would not grow ourselves and that we do not want our children to grow either. Nor do we want to ban the services in which such life can take place, so we are therefore voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119175005	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we are through all the rapporteurs other than the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119175033	Thank you very much for the debate here today. It is, of course, one of those debates where we find some dividing lines in our positions on the whole area. And you may get the impression that this is about banning Sugardating it does not, but we now have rules in our penal code which are about the fact that it is forbidden to serve on the prostitution of others. And we just have to say that there's been a development. This is no longer just going on by renting hotel rooms to prostitutes or acting as a driver for a prostitute in exchange for a share of her income. It's just more moved over online, on websites like e.g. sugardating.dk, where it is very easy to connect the buyer and customer. And what the platform makes on is the money on the buyer's membership. So there is a need for some kind of digital upgrading of this area, which is why I would also like to thank the Minister for recognising this and initiating an investigation. I think that is the first step in recognising the problem, and I really think that many of the speakers today have used their energies to recognise that this is a challenge. But the solutions may lack a little bit more. However, I think it is a good thing that we have a study and I hope that it will at least bring us deeper into the debate. We in the SF have dealt with this in the past. My colleague Mrs Trine Torp, who is sitting next to you, has been rejected by the former Minister of Justice in relation to a legal investigation of this area. And this is an area on which various criminal justice experts have expressed their views. For example: Jørn Vestergaard, a professor of criminal law, pointed out that, under certain circumstances, the current legislation would actually allow us to go after these websites, with the existing rules of prostitution and mediation. But it does require someone to report it, and I don't think that's gonna happen. So in this way we'll never have this tested, and that's also why our idea was: Now we're putting it clearly under this legislation, and then we're wiping out the ambiguity in relation to the fact that it's a ruffle right here. Professor of criminal justice Gorm Toftegaard Nielsen also believes that we need an update. He's a little more unclear when he's talking about this area. He says that when we made the ruffle paragraph, we had actually not taken a position on this problem; that is, it's something new in relation to the original discussion. We decriminalized the prostitutes in 1999. Until then, it was actually a criminal offence to be a prostitute, and it is not legislation that I want us to go back to the country at all. I think that is a very damaging piece of legislation, but at that time it was actually decided to leave the ruffle clause standing and maintaining this criminalisation of making money out of the prostitution of others. And that's why I think that if you've said "A," you'll have to say "B" and include this area too, because that's modern ruffle. Then I would say that if we had adopted the proposal, perhaps it would have been a good side effect if it had also caused us to lift the bar to enter this area where we know that there are clear damage effects. It's crazy easy today; it just takes you to have your mobile in your hand and create a profile, and then you're kind of in the process and you're connected to a market of buyers. And what they say in Nestung, who is dealing with this area, is that they actually see two groups: there are those who are so sexually curious and want to try some things, and then there are young people with a lot of unpleasant things in the luggage that apply here. But common to all of them is that they very easily get into bad experiences. They are being pressured into more than they really wanted; they have not thought it through, and they cannot understand the consequences this brings. So there are some challenges, and if you listen to some of the girls who go into this, you find that they are also relatively young when they go into it, and that is practically illegal in itself, you might say. In relation to the charge and advertising of this, I think there is something strange about the fact that we have spent a great deal of time discussing whether we should ban advertising for games in the best of times, because we know that there are people who want to play and who become addicted, and that it promotes gambling, so that many of us are much clearer in terms of the need for some form of regulation. I think it is really strange that here is an area where there are actually no rules. After all, we saw that it gave rise to a violent debate when Fie Laursen, who is an influencer, laid things up in relation to her very young audience of followers, where she liked it here and gave the impression that sugardating is such a normal and very common sexual experience. And there I can at least fear that it will make more young people go that way. When you do this after today, many people recognise that we are facing a problem here. There may not be so many solutions yet, but I hope that we will be able to move one step closer once the Minister has done some work on this. Then I would say that this proposal cannot be left alone. I fully agree that we need to prevent and that we need to do everything possible in relation to these young groups, but I also believe that some of this is about blocking the road a little bit towards that, so you get a period of reflection until you are at least so old that you can reflect on whether this is smart now. In fact, I think there is a significant difference here in the Extra Bladet, it is very often the women themselves who advertise, but just on these platforms it's all built up on the platform facilitating it and making money on it, and I actually think that's a significant difference. However, I thank you for the debate and hope that at some point we will become wiser in an area which I also admit to being complex, and I also hope that there will be some solutions to this obvious problem, as several of us recognise there is. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119175809	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119175814	Thank you. There is no doubt that, as the rapporteur says, there are young people in this. It is quite awful that we are in a situation where we have a morale among young people that makes this apparently a phenomenon. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I would feel as if I had failed as a mother if I had a teenage girl who allowed herself to be quoted as prostitutes for a pair of expensive shoes or a bag of some brand that I do not know the name of. Of course, there is also the challenge that the rapporteur says, namely that there is a dilemma when adult people meet on Tinder, Facebook, and where else they meet. Yes, you can beat yourself hard because relationships do not always evolve as you have intended. However, I have to understand where the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party stand in this regard in relation to what we talked about earlier. So now the rapporteur himself mentions the extra leaf ads for massage girls. You wouldn't forbid that. But then let's say porn movies, because people who make porn movies make money from sex between other people. Will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party also ban it, or where do we lie, just so that we can sort of understand where we are in this border country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119175927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119175928	After all, this proposal is not about banning either porn or sugardating or sex at all. But SF's clear position is that we have to criminalise sex purchases. We must criminalise the customer, not the prostitute, who is already in a very vulnerable position. We want to go the way we go in Norway and Sweden. In fact, in Norway it is seen that it has brought about a change of attitude, it has changed attitudes towards prostitution, it has reduced demand and it has not increased violence against the prostitutes. So that is what the SF would like to do in this area, but that is not what we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180012	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180013	It is the customer who has to be criminalised, they say. We can maintain the comparison with porn. I understand that you do not want to make it criminal to produce porn or make it criminal to be a participant in a porn movie or whatever you do. But does this mean that the man or woman who buys a porn movie or downloads, or whatever you do, must be criminalised? For where is the limit of where to impose a ban on the state in order to prevent adult people having some form of sexual relations with each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180052	Well, I don't really get it. There are plenty of places where the state regulates and where we say that here it has some harmful effects • it may be smoking, it may be anything else • and we then take a open-minded debate about that, and then we choose to make regulation. Actually, I don't think it's much different with this area. All we know is that there are enormous harmful effects of prostitution. We know that a great many of those who end up there have all sorts of things in their luggage. They are not there, one can say, for the right reasons, which are about doing so of one's own free will and of one's own desire. But it's about some social circumstances.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180132	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180156	The debate is open. The first person to speak is the rapporteur for the questions put to us by Mr Van der Klaauw. Morten Messerschmidt for a reason for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180215	Thank you, President. After all, on many occasions we have discussed the Court of Human Rights here in the Chamber, both with former ministers and with the current minister. It has been a priority during the previous Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe to change the expansive interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights, as it is called, so as to keep close to what is in the Convention and not to continue to expand its scope by bit and thus narrow the elected areas where we politicians can be allowed to decide. It is an exciting debate, but it is a different debate from the one we are having today. Today we in the Danish People's Party want to look into the Court of Human Rights as an institution. We want to see whether the quality of the Court of Human Rights also corresponds to the authority that the Court of Human Rights seems to have in the general debate. In Denmark, it was decided back in 1992 to give precedence to all the judgments handed down by the European Court of Human Rights to the laws which, moreover, may have been adopted here in the Folketing. Moreover, this applies not only to the judgments against Denmark, but also to all the judgments against which they are directed, as one of the 47 countries of the Council of Europe might be. This means that the judgments of the Court of Human Rights have an enormous power, can override decisions made by governments, can override laws passed here in the Folketing and can override decisions taken by the Danish Supreme Court. That is why, of course, it is also crucial that those who sit in the Court of Human Rights and have the important training of judges should be well qualified and that they should observe the finest principles of a court, including, of course, the rules of insanity, in other words ensure that, if there is any doubt as to whether or not a case is ill-advised, one withdraws and lets a colleague take over. Recently there have been very serious doubts as to whether the judges of the European Court of Human Rights live up to that principle. And we would like to have a debate on this today in order to be able to send out a signal as to what are the strengths and, above all, weaknesses of the European Court of Human Rights. So what we want is not a ritual discussion of whether the court interferes too much or too little there I think most voters, and at least most of the 179 Members of the House, are relatively aware of where the parties stand, but rather a discussion of the quality of the judgments in relation to the principles on which the courts operate, and if something needs to be changed, as we in my party believe it should, a discussion of what we do about it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180521	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then it is the Minister for Justice for an answer when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's got the booze off. Thank you. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119180551	Thank you for the question and thank you to the Danish People's Party for asking the question. And that is quite right, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said that the European Court of Human Rights and, in particular, the activist interpretation style have been debated on several occasions in this Chamber. In fact, this is an issue which concerns me, I know it also concerns the questioner and a number of other parties in the Chamber, and it is an important discussion because right is being created, as was also said, which will work in Denmark when the Court of Human Rights gives its rulings. That is why we must constantly be aware of developments in the Court of Human Rights, especially when it comes to the interpretation of the Convention by the Court of Justice in specific cases. I think there is reason to do what we can to limit the activism of the Court of Human Rights. I have also said this several times in several discussions. We are doing this by intervening in matters of principle which are being dealt with in the Grand Chamber of Human Rights; I shall come back to that a little later. The report referred to in the question calls into question the impartiality of the judges of the Court of Human Rights. The report shows, among other things, that a number of judgments by the Court of Human Rights are related to NGOs that are active in the court. Following the inventory, at least 22 out of 100 judges of the Court of Human Rights in the period 2009-2019 have previously been employed or have been partners with various NGOs that are very active in the Court. This applies, among other things, to: NGOs such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. At the same time, the report shows that it is only in very few cases that a judge has resigned because of association with the NGO involved in the case. However, when we have this debate, we also have to be critical of who has written the report. It was written by an organisation called the European Centre for Law & Justice, and I must admit that before this debate I had no knowledge of the organisation in question. However, it is not my view that the relatively sharp conclusions of the report are generally shared, I think, by other observers dealing with the Court of Human Rights, at least not so sharply. And so, of course, there is reason to look at the organization. As far as I am aware, it is led by an American lawyer with close links with Donald Trump and is based on a value base that differs significantly from the NGOs to which the report refers. At the same time, it must be said, when you read the report, that it is only to a limited extent scientifically supported. You can always, if you get a message you disagree with, shoot at the messenger and thereby disqualify what is being said, but that is not what I am trying to do. I'm just saying that you might want to be careful about making too sloppy conclusions on its own. What the report then deals with or the way it goes in recommendations is designated, it is Hability, and it is activism. I think that there are grounds for moving over all three elements, and therefore there may be grounds for briefly explaining the current rules for the appointment of judges to the Court of Human Rights. In accordance with the rules in force, candidates must undergo a two-tier approval procedure. The first indent implies that the Member States must propose a list of three candidates, and the second indent means that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will vote on the candidates on a recommendation. A country's list of candidates may be rejected if not all candidates on the list are deemed to be sufficiently qualified or if the national selection process has not been sufficiently transparent or fair. That sounds like an excellent guarantee that you will offer with the top candidates. What will, of course, be the litmus test is whether or not it has happened in practice. And it has to be said that it is if we look at the issue of viability that there are now precise and clear rules of viability in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Human Rights. There is no doubt that, if you are to be able to rely on a court, if you are to be able to put the emphasis, the legitimacy of the decisions, it is of course important that any conflicts of interest are uncovered, because we will all be sure, when faced with a judge, that here we have an impartial judge to do so, of course you will. It is also quite clear from the Rules of Procedure when a judge is not allowed to take part in the proceedings. This is among other things. in cases where the Judge has previously taken part in the proceedings, such as: Adviser to the complainant or otherwise involved in a case at national level before becoming a judge. It is primarily up to the individual judge to consider whether questions of his or her inability can be raised. That must be the case, because the judge is the one who knows the best interests and can therefore best say: I do not want to be involved in this. Some people think of it as being a little dishonorable with insanity. Such are the rules of insanity in their design not at all. It is simply a matter of saying: we will be sure that there are only the right weights in the weight bowl. That's why I'm gonna step forward and tell you that I don't have to judge this case. If that is the case, the judge in question must, of course, withdraw from the case before the Court of Human Rights has chosen the composition of the judge in that case. Such considerations take place between the individual judge and the President of the Court or the President of the Chamber of the Court of Human Rights. Here the public will not find out, so to speak, that a judge has resigned. That is exactly the same as the situation at home, for example. a Danish judge at a Danish court finds that he has to withdraw from the proceedings before it has been dismissed, which judge or judges have been appointed to deal with the case. However, the question of the inability of judges may also arise after one of the parties disputes the ability of the judge. This applies both to the Court of Human Rights and to the Danish courts. After all, the outcome of such infertility objections is so publicly available that one can read over one's shoulder, as it were. It is my clear expectation that the judges at the Court of Human Rights will, of course, already have a clear focus on the issue of inability, but I have to say, after reading the report, which I think should be taken with a spruce of salt, that some examples have been listed, thinking that there is still some bias in the representation here. I therefore think that there is reason to address the problem at political level on an appropriate occasion. I don't know exactly when it's going to happen, but I think it's something that needs to be watched. Whether or not we agree with our context on human rights, we must, of course, in any case feel assured that the judges who judge cases are not ill-advised. Well, then there is the last point to be made, namely the interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights and the possibility of restricting judicial activism. I will not repeat the speeches that we have been through sometimes, although it is important now, but there is no doubt that the content of the Convention on Human Rights has been interpreted and expanded quite strongly over the years by the Court of Human Rights. It has had the consequence that today the Convention has crept into many corners of our legislation. One of the areas we have been over sometimes is Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights on the right to privacy and family life. The Court has then allowed itself to be leaning on questions of, for example: citizenship, on air and noise pollution affecting one's housing, on access to public access to documents, on who can be recognised as the mother of a child born through surrogate motherhood. In other words, if you read the wording, you might say that there is a long way from the wording of this type of question. And so there is reason to be alert and vigilant to activism. In fact, I think that some of what has succeeded in doing so, and not least my predecessor in the office of Minister of Justice, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, honored also was the declaration of Copenhagen by the previous government under the chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. From 2017 to 2018, a comprehensive MRK project focused on a more balanced, focused and effective human rights system, including the Court's interpretation. This resulted in the adoption of the Copenhagen Declaration in April 2018. That statement has given the circumstances an expression of a political compromise and reflects what was supported by all the Member States of the Council of Europe. The Copenhagen Declaration set out among other things: focus on increased dialogue between the Court of Human Rights and the countries of the Council of Europe on its roles in the implementation and development of the Convention system, including the development of the Human Rights Convention by the Court of Human Rights, which is, of course, at the heart of today's debate. The Copenhagen Declaration stressed, inter alia, that when the national authorities have made a balancing exercise in accordance with the case law of the Court of Human Rights, the Court of Human Rights should not, as a starting point, place its own assessment instead of that of the national authorities. It is still too early to say what the concrete effect was of the Copenhagen Declaration, but I believe that the Member States' scope for manoeuvre is reflected in a number of important cases against Denmark, for example. in the field of expulsion. The latest examples are, after all, from last week with the case against Khan and the Munir Johana, both of which were about whether the circumstances were such that expulsion could be carried out. In both cases, the interpretation adopted by the Danish courts was accepted. I believe that an important way to be aware of has been ours, that is to say, the Danish Government, both the past and the present, the way to restrict the activist interpretation of the Court of Human Rights by making representations in the cases of other countries before the Court of Human Rights. This is what we do in the cases which raise important questions of importance to Denmark. In such cases, we typically argue for a less far-reaching interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights, which gives more room for manoeuvre to the Member States. Since 2018, nine Danish third party submissions have been made, of which six submissions have been submitted under the current government. Those figures are comparable to the submission of one third party submission during the period 2002 to 2017. So it is a tool that we have put into use. We can also see that these third-party posts actually matter. The Court of Human Rights listens and takes into account third-party submissions. And if you are in doubt about it, you should take note of the case against Belgium of May 2020, where the Court of Human Rights explicitly referred to the third-party submissions made by the Member States in its explanatory statement. As I said, to sum up, the development of the Court of Human Rights is a subject of concern to myself and many others, I know, here in the Things. As I have said, we are following developments closely in this area and we continue to challenge the interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights. Basically, we need to stick to the separation of law and politics and to safeguard political leeway. This is an important priority for the government. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the question. It is a good dialogue and way to debate whether the Court of Human Rights is now where it should be and what else we can do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182010	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. One brief remark from the rapporteurs is now available before we move to the debate, and a few have asked for it. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182021	Thank you, President. And thank you for your answer. Now, when I read the report here, I find it difficult to see what it is that one should question in relation to the systematic method. It is a review of the judges' curriculum vitae, and on that basis it is noted that they have had professional relations with NGOs, which typically have a relatively unhindered political agenda, in cases where the NGOs concerned could be Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International or others acting as a third party and thus have an authoritative vote, and so the judges have not declared themselves inalienable. It's a clear breach of the rules of inability. This does not necessarily mean that the judgment is wrong, but it does cast doubt on it. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Minister for Justice if he would welcome such a practice at the Supreme Court, that is to say that one could have a judge who might have previously been employed in the Red Cross as a high-ranking legal representative, who then sat and sentenced in a case concerning the Red Cross. Could you imagine?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182127	In fact, I think it is important that the judges that we have, including in the Danish courts, also have a life alongside being a judge and also have interests alongside them, and I believe that we should also be aware that, to the extent that we declare our inability, that is not a problem. There is also a need for it to be respected that what you have done in the past should not necessarily be a brake on what you are doing now. Of course, there should not be the too close coupling which creates the inability that is precisely the issue in the inability rules, but to say that what has been done in the past means that, in general terms, this type of position cannot be taken, I would warn against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182232	Thank you. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182234	Thank you. It is actually in all sincerity that I have a question to which I would like answers. After all, the Minister suddenly opened up to take up one of the partial conclusions politically, and I suddenly found that to be quite interesting. And I heard the Minister say that he does not know how and how, but that is what is interesting. In fact, we have next week in the Parliamentary Assembly, so the timing is rather skilful, and we actually have a meeting with the government's representative in the Committee of Ministers, the ambassador down in the Committee of Ministers, via the parliamentary delegation in a few days' time. Is it there, or is it through the judge, the Danish-appointed judge, who is going to do so, or where is it concrete to take it up? And is it now because I actually share the view that it is a good system on the one hand, but on the other hand there is also a need to make, we must say some necessary reforms, also in relation to the selection of judges, but I will come back to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182333	I believe that what I was trying to say was that the three criticisms raised seriously in the report are the question of designation, that is the question of viability, and that is the question of activism. As far as the designation is concerned, I think that in what I have been through there are systems that should be able to ensure that it is as it should be. On the issue of viability, i.e. the question of viability, I think there are some things in the report that give rise to the feeling that the ability understanding is sufficient, and I quite frankly said that I do not know exactly how it should be done yet, so there is no future plan for that that I can present today. As far as the last point is concerned, as far as activism is concerned, it is something that we are constantly and continuously aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182419	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr von der Vring. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119182439	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister for Justice for his reply and also for dealing with the matter with the seriousness that I certainly agree it deserves. The fact is that these judgments have immediate effect in Denmark and are interpreted and applied by the executive authorities, also contrary to a law which may have been adopted here, if it is clear that the Court of Human Rights has set a different course. So it is not just something remote that goes on along the banks of the Rhine in Strasbourg, it is something that has direct influence, and the Minister himself mentioned a number of areas. The Minister cannot really find solutions, but a few are certainly on the last pages of the report, so with respect for the Minister I would like to mention some of the points that are being made here and which are not such completely wild things developed by Donald Trump on Twitter or something I do not know whether that is what the Minister imagines but that one is, for example, that one is not able to find solutions. were inspired by the practice of the European Court of Justice and the German, French, Spanish and Portuguese Constitutional Courts, namely that, as a judge, it is not only possible but also the duty to inform the President of the Court when there are conflicting interests. We can therefore make it a duty to ensure that, if we neglect it, it results in disciplinary action. You could also set up other rules in relation to the way in which we appoint judges. I have the dubious privilege of sitting in the committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which interviews the three candidates for judges before it goes to the assembly. And it must be said that when you read the CVs of the nominees, it is not always, to put it mildly, that this is how the practical application of the court comes to light. The fact is that if you go through the 47 judges who then sit and have the supremacy over both this Things and the Danish Supreme Court today, it is a considerable proportion of those who have never practiced before a national court. It is therefore a problem that judges who have not even tried to sit on a court case may overrule decisions of the Danish Supreme Court or decisions which here in the Folketing may have a large majority behind them. Quite a lot of people have a goose's eyes, I say now only an academic background behind them. One can, of course, sit and study deeply and fervently in the case law derived from the Convention on Human Rights, but is it really fair to be able to overrule Supreme Courts without ever having settled as much as a single court case? I think that is doubtful, I find that worrying. Of course, when we look at and follow the ongoing debate on the Turkish judge, Mrs Saadet Yüksel, we do not have the right to do so. It is not then some think tank that the Minister has supposedly not heard of, affiliates of various Americans who have been out criticizing her, but Nordic Monitor, with whom the Minister is perhaps more familiar, one in Sweden just that country must do, that then there can be no doubt about the merit of the NGO, which investigates and follows the things that have described in great detail how Mrs Saadet Yüksel constantly gives the dissertation in Turkish cases in favour of the position taken by Erdogan's government. It is in cases where even I could be tempted to argue at a weak moment that it makes sense to correct criticism from the Court of Human Rights. What is it that we serve, or the minister serves, or the rapporteurs who are going to talk after me, serve if we are so afraid of criticizing something quite openly criticized by the Court of Human Rights? It is certainly not a matter of its own; it is certainly not the case of the Court of Human Rights; it is not the case of the law if we do not dare to say that it can be tightened up and that the rules of insanity are not good enough, that the appointment processes are not good enough. It could also be said at some point that if there is no tightening up, it does not make much sense that we should just say 'oui' or whatever it may be for a language of procedure used every time the 47 judges in Strasbourg have spoken. That is why, with the agreement of the President, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Parliament expresses deep concern about the case before the Court of Human Rights. Since 2009, there have been over 88 cases in which one of the participating judges has previously worked for or with an NGO acting in the case. It is unacceptable for a court whose decisions are not only against Denmark, but against all 47 European Council Parliament also criticises the lack of judicial experience among human rights judges. Only 13 out of 47 judges have experience from a Supreme Court or Constitutional Court, while 19 of the current judges have never acted as a judge in the past. This is deeply worrying for a court whose decisions override both national parliaments and Supreme Courts. The Danish Parliament is currently expressing concern about Turkish Saadet Yüksel, who has served as a human rights judge since July 2019 and who, on the one hand, has no judicial experience and, on the other hand, has claimed criticism of being President Erdogan's Trojan horse. V 49). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183051	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183057	Thank you. I would like to ask you about what the rapporteur is very concerned about regarding the former qualifications of judges and acting as judges in second place. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that, for example, he who acts as the President of the Supreme Court in Denmark, whose qualifications no one at least doubts, has had the sole experience of looking at the experience he has gained in the past as a judge in the judicial office of the European Court of Justice...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183140	Yeah, that's absolutely right. Thomas Rørdam hasn't been a judge. I didn't even know he had that second job. It's just completely irrelevant, because it's incomparable. Because if the Supreme Court makes a decision, we can just change it, that is, unless of course it concerns the Constitution. But we in the Folketing can just change the law. If we have made a law which the Supreme Court then interprets, where it comes to the conclusion that the law is something else in its content than what the majority of the Danish Parliament has wanted, then we can just change it so there is no problem with that. And, of course, there is also the fact that it is the exception that confirms the rule in relation to the Supreme Court, where the opposite must be said to be true in relation to the Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183213	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183215	I could also choose to take as a starting point that six of the judges who are in the Supreme Court in Denmark today have not, I think, had previous appointment as judges. But let it go. I would like to ask about this with those who are behind this report, which the rapporteur is very much talking about and very warmly about. They can be described as Team Donald Trump, a little like the Minister of Justice mentioned, if you look at their connection with him who will be finished in just under 24 hours. Does the rapporteur not see any problem whatsoever with those who have produced this report and with the shortcomings that are both in terms of scientific evidence and other matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183253	No, what would worry me was if you read it and were unable to see through your own prejudices, in relation to what you can seek out at Google. In other words, if you are so concerned when someone presents something, to ask if you can discredit those who present it, so that you can avoid having to deal with what they are presenting at all, then I think you simply have to be radical in order to end up there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183318	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and the next rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183333	Thank you. 2021 started so well. In fact, it started with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in the radical party newspaper Politiken unfolded his thoughts, and we actually thought it was not just a kick in a new year, but in a new decade, which would turn out to be quite different from what we left, both for good and for evil. I understand that it took a very short time, and then we were back in the usual setting. There is something beautiful about that. On the other hand, there is indeed some quality in relation to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's turn in the European Parliament has qualified the debate we have here in Parliament, I think. I am not quite sure whether it was a voluntary trip or whether it was a trip in the corner of shame, but nevertheless I would just like to acknowledge that it actually comes out very well. In fact, I think it has been a quality to have Mr. Morten Messerschmidt back from the European Parliament and in here. I think we are all happy about that, because in these very debates it actually gives some weight to the discussion, and therefore there is also reason to acknowledge this question. Moreover, I agree in principle that although it may well be a corrupt undertaking that has made that report, it should not disqualify it if there is something to actually come for. It's up to us to see through it. And I simply do not need to be aware of the validity of the judges who are, but I think that, in principle, when you move on to a track where you start attacking individual judges and their qualifications and ability, you have to have quite a lot of hold on the tickets, and I think that is actually a very fair discussion. What was at least my perspective in the debates we have had in the past on this subject is, of course, the third element here, that of activism, which I understand we should not spend so much time on today, and that is fair enough. But that's where I share the view on that and so does the government, you can hear, and the government at that time is trying to limit the activism that exists. Can it then have a connection in the way one selects, or in relation to the ability of the judges to declare themselves capable or ill-advised? I think that is fair enough to discuss, and then you have to find a way to facilitate it. And maybe we can spend some time on that. Having said that, I think that what is the main problem at the European Court of Human Rights is that of activism, that is to say the extension of the area, and there is reason to be sceptical about that. Having said that, I have a text for adoption which I would like to read on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Conservatives. And it reads: Proposal for adoption The Parliament notes that, in the Government's view, constant attention needs to be paid to developments in the European Court of Human Rights, and in particular to the Court's interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) in the specific cases. The Government is working to limit, as far as possible, the activism of the court, including by intervening in the matters of principle before the Grand Chamber of Justice. The Government should continue the strengthened focus of the Copenhagen Declaration on Denmark continuing to challenge the Court's interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights, and continue the dialogue on and with the Court forward-looking. • V 50)
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183708	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183713	Thank you for your kind words and also for the statement that at least to a certain extent we look at things the same way, since it seems that this is only a matter of activism. But I think things are connected. For it is clear that if you have a rigorous academic background, where you have only sat and studied judgments and acted on what can you say theoretically to them, then you may also later as a judge more falsify to move into that role, whereas if you have acted, for example. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Jeppe Bruus and my line. That is why it is not entirely irrelevant what the judges of the Court of Human Rights have in mind. And that is why I would like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus to relate to, if not a problem, that there are so many of them who can overrule the Folketing and the Supreme Court who have never tried to sit as much as in a trial before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183826-2	In order to answer that question appropriately, I need to know whether the judges who are particularly active or acting in a special way are the judges who do not have the experience we are talking about here. In relation to the total number of judges, I simply cannot answer, because I do not know. I have taken note of the example of the Turkish judge, as I think I will try to study something more, and I agree that now I have to answer and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has to ask questions, so it is a little the other way around, but it will require a study of what it looks like, and even in that case I would probably be reluctant to put that parameter down, because it would then in fact be able to disqualify someone who might in fact have a relevant background.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183910	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183911	After all, there is one good thing about the European Court of Human Rights, namely that the judges give their votes by name. You can hand over this, whereas in the European Court of Justice it is always made together, so you have no idea who meant what and if anyone thought anything else at all and so on. So I think it's incredibly interesting what Mr. Jeppe Bruus puts forward ideas here, namely to have a study carried out on whether there is such a connection. And if we can agree on that, that is, if the Social Democrats will support it, that we will have an investigation where we can see the connection between the background of the judges and who gives the dissertation for or against an expanding interpretation, it would be very welcome and qualifying for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119183954	Well, now we're for a new decade, and I understand that for a new decade, anything can be done. That's not exactly what I promised. I just said that I took note of that point and that I would not stand here and promise anything on behalf of the Social Democratic Party in that direction. But I just took note of the debate and found it interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184011	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184033	Thank you for that, and also thank you to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to raise the debate, and there are different ways of accessing it. One is, of course, to start up, even though I heard what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt said, in other words, that we should not have that debate, but only for the sake of the thousands of people who are currently following the debate on television, I think it is important to stick to where the position of the Left is in relation to the activist aspect of the court, and it is, of course, that we are very, very concerned about that activism. That is why I personally was also very pleased with the fact that we were given the opportunity to make the Copenhagen Declaration, which one might think was not the most harsh text, but which in all has helped to start a reform work within the House, both at the court itself, but also in relation to the Committee of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly. And just like sir. Mr Messerschmidt is a member of the Parliamentary Assembly, I am, of course, a member of the Parliament, and I have been for 14 years, I have gradually spoken to him, and in the 14 years I have had exactly the same view as Mr Messerschmidt. Morten Messerschmidt states that there are some things that do not work in relation to the appointment of judges. The problem is simply that it is really, really difficult to find another system if, on the one hand, it is to be comprehensive all 47 member nations and, on the other hand, it is also as democratic as possible. However, I have observed very well that when we get these specific votes in the parliamentary assembly, we can ask how much clarity, how much overview there really is of the judges we are voting on. The answer is that I think there are very, very many of those who go in and vote, who just slavishly follow the attitude of the committee that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself is sitting in, without even considering whether it is the right candidate or not. Secondly, we know that, when we have these votes, the percentage of delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly is actually considerably low. So that means that even these Members do not actually even vote for it. Then there is the whole aspect, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has raised what is then the background of the judges concerned, and there I am, for example. I agree too. I just do not think that this is why I and the Left cannot agree with the adoption text presented by the Danish People's Party, but agree with the text we have negotiated with the government party that this debate should be here. However, I believe that the debate should be in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe or in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Because that's really only where you're going to be able to do these reforms, like Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt wishes. So I and the Left are a little square along the way, we also want to have these debates, and that is why I was frankly a little curious when the Minister for Justice opened up a little that the government could discuss some of these aspects in some form, because it would be good if the debate were held in the Committee of Ministers, in the Parliamentary Assembly, for example. via a so-called joint committee debate, and that will certainly be one of the things that I think could be really exciting. But as Mr. Mr Messerschmidt also knows very well that the Council of Europe, like the European Parliament, is very pervaded by European party organisations, and that is why, as Vice-President of the Liberal Group in the European Parliament's Parliamentary Assembly, I can also say that I think it is through this that some debates should be held, and that is why I am willing to do so. So, on the one hand, there is understanding far along the way, but on the other hand, I also think that the debate should be taken in the forum on which it is concerned, namely the Council of Europe. Because that's where you'll be able to make the necessary reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184417	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184420	The rapporteur welcomes the Copenhagen Declaration and the rapporteur also believes that debates on reforms of the Council of Europe should be held in the parliamentary assembly and in the party groups in Strasbourg. So I would like to ask: was the Copenhagen Declaration started in the Parliamentary Assembly and the party groups in Strasbourg? And if not, where did it start?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184448	After all, every six months a country holds the chair of the Committee of Ministers and, as I said explicitly in my speech, I also believe that this debate should be taken up in the Committee of Ministers, and that is why I sincerely asked the Minister for Justice whether or not this should be taken up in the Committee of Ministers. The Committee of Ministers meets in Strasbourg and they have very, very few meetings that they do not hold in Strasbourg. But they are mainly holding the meetings in Strasbourg, and that is why everything I said is actually still in the hands of believers, even though Mr. Morten Messerschmidt did not quite believe it when he started on his question to the undersigned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184519	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184521	All right, then we got rid of the parliamentary assembly and the groups. Then there's the Committee of Ministers. Who's on the Committee of Ministers? Yes, the government does, and I assume that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is familiar with section 19 of the Constitution. 3 which he has signed to comply with, namely that the government consults the Folketing on far-reaching issues. Then we're back at the Folketing. I would like to ask: why is it then that the rapporteur will not instruct the government to raise the issues that the Danish People's Party has in its adoption text, but which the Left does not have in the adoption text which the Left allegedly supports, since that is the way we can raise it? It's like there's some kind of short-circuit here in the logic. Because that's the way we can order the government to do what Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen says that we then agree that we want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184612	No, I think that agreement will soon disappear. What the questioner forgets is that not only can the Committee of Ministers make the reforms that the questioner wants to see done, but that will only be possible if the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also agrees. That is why it is, in fact, an attempt to reach out, which has then been verfed far away, and I must take note of that. But I think that if you really want to do something and not just want to make some populist attempt to get, we have to say, a little cheap points on the national stage, then you have to make where a difference can be made, namely through the Committee of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184647	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184650	Thank you. Some people call it activism, and others might just call it that the court follows the time since 1950, when the human rights convention is from. For example, the rights of homosexuals at that time did not fill much, yet a judgment was handed down. If Member States had penalties for sex between persons of the same sex, it was established in the 1980s that it was an offence. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur's party does not agree that it is also natural that the Court should exercise this so-called activism or, in other words, keep up with time and fill in the estimates from the Member States in a contemporary and modern context, based on what is right-giving today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184743	This is a really, really interesting issue. Because, on the one hand, the Left is an eternal advocate of having the Court of Human Rights. It is doing a huge job, not least in relation to the three problem countries that are in the Council of Europe's membership, Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan, where the inhabitants would feel really bad if there was no court like the Court of Human Rights. So there I agree that the Court plays a huge role in relation to basic human rights violations, which unfortunately happens repeatedly. Where I believe that activism has gone too far is where you go and look where it is that the role of the Council of Europe stops and where it is that the national parliaments have to take over. It's a balancing act. I clearly acknowledge that. And this debate has been going on for a lot of years: where is the balancing act supposed to be? I just think that, in relation to the opportunities available to the countries concerned, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. There should not be such an EU umbrella coming in and being, we should say, overjudge on those issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184847	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184849	Thank you for that rather reassuring answer in relation to much of the answer. I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur can then confirm that it is, I believe, just over 17 out of 52 cases before the Court of Human Rights, where Denmark has, as it were, lost. This means that one can discuss how many it is, and if it does not also cast doubt on whether this very problematic activism is actually being exercised, when it is so relatively small a number of cases, and when in other contexts it is described as positive and with good reason that the court must of course also keep up with time and follow the rights of a modern society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119184925	I must admit that, after the Copenhagen Declaration, I have actually become very positive, and that is what I was trying to say in my speech. In fact, a lot of people said it didn't play any part. I believe that this will play a much greater role than was expected, and we saw this last, I think, a few days ago with the judgment given in the Grand Chamber. For one of the ideas of the Copenhagen Declaration was that more and more cases had to be conducted in the Grand Chamber and that more and more cases also had to be argued by government representatives, rather than that they were actually a little subjugated. So all in all, I think that the balance that came after the Copenhagen Declaration may actually hit a really, really good place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185004	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we're gonna have to get the booze off here on the platform. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185100	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the call for what is now to be called the annual question of criticism of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights is an important part of the enforcement of our fundamental freedoms: freedom of expression, fair trial and many other freedoms. It is a vital condition for having rights that you can claim them too and that it applies to everyone. It is therefore quite obvious that we have the Court of Human Rights to enforce the rights we have incorporated into Danish law; a court that comes to the rescue of citizens. Normally, I know that the subject of the question usually criticises and claims that this activism is taking place on an apparently large scale, but today it is so much more about what qualifications it is or what it is for some previous duties that the appointed judges have or have not had. However, I think, as has also been suggested in the debate, that it is occasionally important to discuss who is actually behind this critical report, which now forms the basis of this debate on questions we have today. It has been said that this NGO, abbreviated ECLJ, is both American-supported and set up by a highly conservative television preacher, Pat Robertson, and that there is also a lawyer in the inner circle of Donald Trump's lawyers at the head of this enterprise. So in such a few words, those who are behind this, some who have, you might say, the character of being Team Donald Trump. Now there are less than 24 hours for Donald Trump to be kicked out of the White House, and there are many political reasons to be satisfied with that, but putting emphasis on this report alone and criticising the company because of the judges' qualifications only on the basis of a report by Team Donald Trump, I would probably be somewhat reluctant to do so before any further, which is being put forward and is being invoked. I also think that, to the criticism made here of the lack of previous court experience among the College of Judges, I must say that if you look at our own Supreme Court, it is certainly not clear that it says anything about the qualifications of the judges. It is, among other things, as we have said, the President of the Supreme Court who is, and who nobody doubts, what politicians should not do, of course. It doesn't fall into our lot to deal with court competitions. However, the previous historic short appointment at another court compared with the fact that there is no previous judicial experience among six judges does not necessarily say anything about their qualifications quite clearly. In view of this, I would just like to read out the following on behalf of the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that the European Convention on Human Rights is a crucial foundation for the fundamental rights of citizens. The necessary protection requires enforcement in a court of law. Parliament welcomes the fact that the Court of Human Rights is helping to ensure that violations of the fundamental rights of individuals are not committed or, if necessary, tried in court, and considers it natural that the Court should also develop over time in line with the development of society, and that Member States should also be left a margin of discretion in certain areas. In addition, the Folketing considers that the division of powers means that the legislative power should be reluctant when it comes to expressing opinions on the submissions of judges. • V 51).
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185520	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185528	I would like to hear from the rapporteur where, in the report of the European Centre for Law & Justice, he finds prints from Donald Trump, that is, from the people around Donald Trump, whom the rapporteur made a great deal of progress. Is it in the examination of the NGOs for which human rights judges have been employed and who have been in charge, in the examination of cases where their inability is clarified, or is it in the final concluding paragraphs where improvements are made to how the court could work? So, where is it concrete in the report that the rapporteur finds evidence to correct criticism of what is behind it and find the connection with Donald Trump?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185619	I think it is important to be a source-critical of what is being read, and to me it would have a greater impact if it were such a broader criticism that was made than the very narrow criticism made by someone who has very close ties with Donald Trump and thus might be called the Legal Team Donald Trump.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185640	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185641	So is it the case that for the radical rapporteur all that someone who has been associated with Donald Trump might say is disqualified alone? Then you really have to choose your associates with precision, you have to say. I think I'll just keep it that way. Is this the case for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185703	At any rate, I can say that those who are very closely associated with Donald Trump have not shown themselves to have a very large weighting of scientific things. There's been a lot about fake news and things you say there hasn't been so much evidence, so I would be careful to refer too much to claims and things that come only from the very narrow circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185735	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119185811	Thank you. I am here instead of our legal rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, and I will try to deal with this issue in the best possible way. Fortunately, I am also an EU rapporteur, which is why it is in my area in a certain sense. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for calling this debate. After all, this is a debate that we have taken on a number of occasions before, and in the SF we are always happy to take the debate on our important international institutions. But we feel that when we look out in Europe and in the rest of the world, we see, unfortunately, that human rights are under pressure. They are both in the EU countries, but they are also very much within the Council of Europe community, and, as we see it here, it is of course important to find out how to rectify this and to ensure that all citizens in the field of the Council of Europe enjoy effective and effective protection of their fundamental rights. Today, however, the problem is not that human rights are not being challenged. In my view, on the contrary, the problem is that human rights are constantly being challenged by regimes such as Turkey, Azerbaijan, Russia and many others. Of course, we must be able to conduct an open dialogue on the practice of the Court of Human Rights on an ongoing basis and, of course, we must be able to intervene in matters of principle where this is really important to us. However, I believe that we should be careful to call it activism that the criticism of the court does not chamber over and risk weakening the Court of Human Rights as an institution. We do not need weaker international institutions. We need strong international institutions, including the Court of Human Rights, which can ensure compliance with our common international rules of play. I therefore believe that Denmark should not be at the forefront of the choir of countries criticising the Court of Human Rights. We should not give weight to regimes that fundamentally challenge human rights and the Court of Human Rights. There is a good reason why Denmark is fighting a brave battle for example. The rule of law and fundamental rights on the European stage, and there is indeed a good reason why some countries are criticised by the Court of Human Rights. As a rule, these are countries which need to be looked at in terms of safeguarding and respecting citizens' rights, and that is why we need a strong human rights court. The SF therefore believes that the debate on human rights and their development is important and welcome, and for us it is crucial that we speak up about human rights and the relevant institutions. I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the SF, and it says: Proposal for adoption The Parliament considers that it is absolutely essential with unequivocal support for fundamental international institutions such as the European Court of Human Rights. The Danish Parliament notes that the government supports strong international cooperation and respects Denmark's international obligations, but also acknowledges that the government is not uncritical of individual cases of the court's dynamic interpretations of the legal basis. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the government is focusing on Denmark being a country that leads and will continue to conduct an open dialogue on and with the Court of Human Rights, both nationally and internationally, including in relevant political contexts, under the auspices of the Council of Europe and directly at the Court of Human Rights. • V 52).
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190209	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190223	Thank you. I would just like to know what it is like to support human rights and the Court of Human Rights and not normally I would say that supporting an institution also includes trying to improve its activities and its credibility. But I understand the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party that supporting the Court of Human Rights is not to talk about its weaknesses and not to talk about those who criticise it. And I just don't understand that. But one could say, if one were to be a little polemical, that maybe that is also the way the SF backs the current government on the ground by, of course, hiding its weaknesses etc. But this has a different character, so couldn't Mrs Valentina Berthelsen try to explain how it would be to the benefit of the Court of Human Rights to hide its weaknesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190317	Well, now I'm gonna have to tell you what's going on. Berthelsen, that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is just naughty enough. We do not, however, believe that we should not criticise an institution such as the Court of Human Rights, which is part of the dialogue and improvement. We think you can do that. However, we believe that the debate that is taking place here today and the debate that has been going on for a long time about the Court of Human Rights are in danger of watering it down and weakening it. We need these strong international institutions, and that is why we need to be very careful about how we take the dialogue with them and how we develop them. Morten Messerschmidt likes to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190405	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190406	When I criticise the court, it is because it is bad for the Danish legal system and bad for Danish democracy. That is why I had hoped that we could have a common ambition to remove the bad and make it better. One can then disagree on how to deal with it, but it should at least be possible to agree on when there is something bad, for example. breaches of some relatively fundamental principles, such as: is known from the European Convention on Human Rights, namely in terms of capacity and inability. And that is why I am surprised that, as a rapporteur who praises the Court of Human Rights as an institution, we can read out a text of adoption which is completely clear from the criticism of the activities of the judges and the way in which they act, as most others can well see, is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190454	I think that the Danish People's Party and the SF look a little differently at exactly how much activism there is in the court's practice and exactly how critical the court's practice is. However, I think it is quite essential that we have a little bit of corporate income tax, precisely for the sake of the things Mr. Morten Messerschmidt lists up; for the sake of democracy, for the sake of the rule of law, and for the sake of how we in Denmark and the world deal with it. So I don't see the contradiction that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190525	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119190547	Thank you. Basically, the European Court of Human Rights gives each citizen the right to have a case tried under the European Convention on Human Rights. It is a democratic opportunity and a practice that we should safeguard, especially at a time when we do not have to read much news until it is quite clear that the national level does not guarantee compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights either at European level. For the Enhedslisten, the Court is important because, unlike the European Court of Justice, it is not based on EU treaties and legislation, but precisely on the Convention on Human Rights. The Court of Justice is an important player in ensuring that states do not compromise on citizens' rights. In 2014, for example, a court ruling meant that an end was put to the use of the EU's dublin rule to send children's families who had sought asylum in Switzerland to a street life in Italy, just as Turkey, which has signed the Convention, has often received sentences which have been an important safeguard against human rights violations. It is precisely in the case of Turkey that most of us agree that there is a need for citizens to be able to approach bodies other than the Turkish authorities and courts, as it may be almost impossible and even dangerous to speak against the authorities in Turkey. Although it is not as glaring to Denmark as it is in Turkey, it is not very long ago that we had a government which had as its stated aim to go to the edge of the conventions, if not even, like a little beyond. Fortunately, we don't have that right now. In fact, allow me to say that we now have a majority on the shoulders of the conventions. If we go back to 1994 and the Jersild case, the court was also crucial in safeguarding the freedom of the media. A few years ago, after massive efforts by the former bourgeois government and with very clear support from the Danish People's Party, the so-called Copenhagen Declaration was successfully adopted. The declaration was basically about getting the courts to interfere less in the tight immigration policy at home. Fortunately, that statement did not go as far as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's party worked for it, but it has become important, and I think it is very clear that, unfortunately, there are parties in here who do not want a second opinion from Strasbourg. Now the Danish People's Party is somehow again after the Court of Human Rights. I have not been able to study the backgrounds and activities of all judges, but, as far as I can see, these are relations with NGOs which are quite harmless. Perhaps we could even argue that it is even reassuring if judges balance their relationship with the state that has appointed them with an engagement with and with civil society. Of course, we are open to looking at specific and proven cases in which judges act contrary to what their office prescribes, but I still have the merit of seeing that. And as a supplement: of course it is not quite simple for 47 judges from very different countries to agree and interpret the articles of the Convention as well as specific cases. International cooperation of this magnitude is very rarely simple and simple. It is, of course, an honest matter if, politically speaking, the European Court of Human Rights and the convention on which it operates are not the right legal and moral basis for our community of law. In the Enhedslisten, we basically believe that we should safeguard a court that allows the individual citizen to have his or her case tried under the Convention on Human Rights. This does not necessarily mean that we agree politically with all the judgments of the court, but we insist that there is a need to have a court that protects the individual citizen, including from its own state. We simply do not believe in the Enhedslisten that we can leave the responsibility for respecting human rights to Putin, Orbán or Erdogan, and I am rather surprised that the Danish People's Party would like to leave that responsibility to some others. Then, of course, I owe it to you to say that we can support the text adopted by Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard read.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191017	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go. Rosa Lund Everything else would somehow also be strange).
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191024	I do not want to disappoint the rapporteur, or perhaps I will. Now we did not really get an answer from the Socialist People's Party before. I fully agree that the socialists love the human rights system, and there is nothing weird about that, since it comes from the French Revolution; it is the same as in that part of history. But what is a little strange is that you seem to be so happy with the institution that you do not just reject it, but completely deny the justification of any criticism. In other words, the rules we know from the Danish courts about insanity, where you have an obligation to impose sanctions if you do not comply with them, namely to declare your insanity, do not apply to the European Court of Human Rights; there is an option. And I just can't understand, and I don't think it's my comprehension, there's something wrong with here, I think it's just because of the incoherent logic... what it's like to defend a system, to defend mechanisms that make the principles that the system has to defend weaker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191138	I do not entirely agree with that premise, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is setting up. Of course, we can be ready to criticise when there are grounds for criticism, and I think that is what I said in my speech. There must be no doubt that there are specific cases where the judges are acting contrary to what their office prescribes, and I do not think that this is the case here. On the contrary, I think, as I also said, that it can be a quality if judges at the Court of Human Rights are actually also involved in civil society in the country in which they live, and not only in the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191209	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191211	I assume that we agree that independence is important. At the European Court of Human Rights, it is an opportunity, a right one has, to make a plea to the President of the Court of Justice when he is. In Luxembourg it is a duty and the difference is that if you neglect a duty, you will be punished disciplinaryly. Would it not be sensible for the Strasbourg Court to make it a duty for the judges to declare their interests in a case before the President of the Court of Justice, as in Luxembourg before the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191254	After all, we agree that independence is important and that it is also important to have a set of rights that apply to all of us. This is one of the most important things for us in the Enhedslisten, and what we think is most important in the Court of Human Rights. I think, however, that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, as I see it, does not mean that we have a problem of inability to deal with the Court of Human Rights. That is why I simply do not think it is necessary to introduce it, as Mr von der Vring has said. Morten Messerschmidt pleads in his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191323	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191338	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti for having called this request. It is an important issue and it is of great importance to Denmark. This is a subject that is not widely discussed in the Danish public debate on a day-to-day basis. You could actually hear a little more about that, and that's why it's good that we get this question. When Denmark last held the Presidency of the Council of Europe, the Copenhagen Declaration became a reality. After several years of struggle, the Danish thought that the European Court of Human Rights finally became commonplace among our allies in Europe. This was an important step, and it was a statement in which we had a number of the issues raised in connection with the European Court of Human Rights. For example, if the Supreme Court has recognised the expulsion of a criminal alien, there is no need for the matter to be tried by the European Court of Human Rights. A good example of this, we saw here last week in the case of Shuaib Khan's expulsion from Denmark. That judgment was upheld by the European Convention on Human Rights as a result of the Copenhagen Declaration. This shows that it is a good step on the way. But does this mean that we are in the goal and that the European Court of Human Rights is working perfectly? No, it doesn't. An overly dynamic interpretation style continues to be a problem that may crack the perception and support of international conventions such as the European Convention on Human Rights. We must avoid that. For the European Convention on Human Rights has so far continued its existence. That is why I would like today, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, to acknowledge the criticism of the Court of Human Rights raised in the Chamber today by, among others, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, including the recognition that there may be problems with the legal knowledge or lack of it, which are among some of the judges. The Conservative People's Party would always like to enter into a dialogue on how to ensure that the European Court of Human Rights lives up to the high level we can rightly expect from the Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191618	After all, the rapporteur is holding us in a very tense position in relation to where he is presented with regard to texts for adoption. At least I haven't heard anything yet, but I sense spring. Well, that sounds reasonable, because that, sir. Naser Khader says, much like what I said, so it would be nice if the rapporteur would indicate whether the Conservative People's Party supports the text I have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191646	We support the government's adoption text, which points out that we must keep an eye on what is happening and be aware that the court does not work too dynamically. I have read the rapporteur's proposal for adoption, an hour before we were to come in here, and it seems reasonable, I think, and we agree with the criticism that is being made about the Turkish judge, the NGOs and so on, but we also think that the government's proposal for adoption is fine, and we have supported that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191726	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191728	It's boring that you're just gonna live with what's fine when you can get what's better. Well, I hope that Mr. Knox doesn't... Naser Khader is practicing it in every part of his life. It would be sad, especially since he says in his rapporteur's speech that if the Supreme Court has expelled anyone, there is no reason for the Court of Human Rights to deal with the matter. That's not what he gets from the Reds. The Reds also government; it is also red, although sometimes it tries to sound pink • will maintain that the Human Rights Court will be the last appeal body. So why don't the Conservatives play with the rest of us and try to tame the beast down in Strasbourg instead of just pretending to be like another poem-kinscule.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191812	I think the rapporteur of the Left made a point that this debate should be held in the Council of Europe. It's important. I also think it is good that we are debating this, because it is important that we engage the people in that debate. As far as reds are concerned, the parties have different reds and they are putting forward various proposals for adoption today, but we are in the government's proposal for adoption, where some of the things that are mentioned are the Copenhagen Declaration and the fact that we have to keep an eye on the fact that the court does not become too dynamic. This seems to us to underline and confirm the judgment handed down on the gangster last week, namely that once the Supreme Court has given its opinion, the case should not be passed on to the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191854	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader of the Conservatives. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119191923	Thank you to DF and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to raise today's debate. The report on NGOs and judges of the European Court of Human Rights 2009-2019 describes how a number of judges have a more than common relationship with a number of NGOs contributing to the functioning of the European Court of Human Rights. According to the report, out of the 100 permanent judges who have served during this period, 22 appear to have had strong links before their election to the judge with one or more of seven organisations, either in administration, who receive money or who are significant and regular participants in their activities. However, the investigation goes beyond merely observing a link between NGOs and appointed judges. The investigation shows that in 185 cases where these seven NGOs have intervened over the last 10 years, judges have been sitting on several occasions in cases brought or supported by the NGO with which they had cooperated. It is, of course, undesirable that the judges of the European Court of Human Rights appear to be ill-advised in a number of cases, but the fundamental problem of the European Court of Human Rights and the Convention seems to lie elsewhere. Conventions are made in a different time with a different purpose. They're not sacred writings. They must be adapted to the challenges we face today. It is not in Denmark's interest to maintain obsolete conventions. The conventions or provisions of international agreements which stand in the way of a fair foreign policy, for example, must either be denounced or rejected by giving priority to Danish law over the Convention. The legislation should not be based on a judge's corps in Strasbourg, where judges are not elected and seemingly often ill-advised. The legislation should instead fit into the place, the conditions and the experiences where the effects of the legislation feel, and that place is in our situation Denmark. For it is the Danes who bear the consequences of the decisions that are made. No judge, no ill-advised or ill-advised, in Strasbourg will be forced to do so. New citizens support the adoption text, which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt read out earlier, and he would also point out that it is possible to vote in favour of several motions for resolutions. So, since there are good tactics also in the text adopted by the Left, the Conservatives and the Social Democrats, then we will be voting in favour of it too, but we will be supporting the proposal for adoption which is directly linked to the question debate here today, and I would hope that others, who may have been on the floor earlier today and spoke in favour of more than one text for adoption, could consider going in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192224	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And before I give the floor to the authors, I would just like to point out that if a text for adoption is adopted, that is, if there is a majority in favour of a text for adoption, the other texts for adoption will not be put to the vote for good reasons. With that said, there are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192248	I can say on my own behalf that I swear out loud and holy that when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt raises the matter in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I shall also vote for it as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So, of course, I look forward to it. We have a session next week, so that's where I assume that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has already sent a proposal for debate. Now that I am speaking in relation to the speech by the new citizens, it is in relation to the question of whether the Convention might be completely abolished. I understand that you want to pursue an independent immigration policy. We are 100% in agreement with that, but the only problem is that the solution is not to repeal the convention. Because what is being done in relation to countries like Russia, with Azerbaijan, with Turkey, where you have dictators or dictators light, who want to oppress the people and who do not give a damn about law and order? If they do not have the conventions, if they do not have the court, then these citizens have nothing to do with the citizens who want to fight these tyrannical leaders. Does the rapporteur not see a small problem in relation to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192348	Yes, but there are two answers to that question. One answer is about what we do in relation to other countries, and it is my clear impression that the countries that are also mentioned here do not really care what others say. So, of course, we should not destroy our country for the sake of other countries that we do not like at all and which we would very much like to be free from being part of. In relation to the current convention ^ when I speak of conventions, it is conventions at all, and here the human rights convention ^ it is not the case that New Citizens have an objective to withdraw from it. But we have a goal that Danish law, particularly with regard to foreign policy, should take precedence in the decisions taken when we talk about inter alia. the expulsion of criminal foreigners, because it is our clear conviction that we will not allow the rights of a criminal alien to have a family life in Denmark over the freedom and security of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192444	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192446	But the problem is that this is exactly what Putin in Russia is doing. The Duma in Russia has passed a law which simply says that Russian law is above all. And then it is that you give Putin completely carte blanche to do everything he wants to do if not, because fortunately there are 46 other countries in the Council of Europe, including Denmark, who say: It does not go; if you want to be part of international law and order, of course it does not go. Russia has been told that and, of course, they will have to respect it. So the situation is that if we do not have some form of law and order and some kind of stability, then the alternative is instability and what is the opposite of law and order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192526	Although I have high thoughts about myself, and I love and also have high thoughts about Denmark, I am not the type that walks around and sees myself as the big animal on the savannah or thinks: Listen, where we gung. And I am therefore of the clear conviction that if Denmark sets foot and says that we will not accept that criminal foreigners are allowed to stay in Denmark at the expense of the freedom and security of the Danes, and that we therefore write into Danish alien law that it takes precedence in the decisions there, it has no influence whatsoever on whether Putin does one thing or the other. I really do not think that one should raise oneself to a level where one has the self-conception that Putin corrects and becomes an extremely diplomatic and democratic person just because one is oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192608	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192612	Yeah, you could, since we're with Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen in the Kingdom of the Soviets, imagine the idea that turning the Convention on Human Rights into something that was not a defence of terrorists and criminal foreigners might inspire Mr. Putin and others to actually follow it. However, what I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund is why it should only be in the field of foreigners. So, what is the reason why the Court of Human Rights should have a position on rules on surrogate mothers in Denmark or on what procedural rules should apply to people who do not want to give their names on a bus where they have not bought tickets? It's all kinds of stuff. Why there? Why only the alien area? Why not say once and for all: This high thing, our Supreme Court, we have for 800 years developed the most functioning judicial society in the world, why do we need a court of Bulgarians and Azerbaijanis and Russians and other good people to tell us how to organize our country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192707	There may well be plenty of other areas where we say this isn't something to get involved in down there. When it is crucial for us on foreign policy, it is of course in recognition that this is where we have massive challenges. I would say that the dilemma of surrogate mothers to me lies in an infinitely small place in relation to foreign policy. All respect for the people who think it is important, but for me it is just not important and crucial for Denmark's future and for our values. In relation to the answer to Mr. I fully agree with Michael Aastrup Jensen. If one says collectively among the countries that have supported the human rights convention initially: we want to do so here, but we do not want to accept that we should be subject to an activist court, because it is precisely undermining the support for the convention, then I think we will stand somewhere else. The text of the Convention is, of course, difficult to disagree with, but because we have such an activist court, there is a risk that it undermines support for the Convention. There I think we would be standing somewhere else if more countries set their feet and said: No, here and no more. It may harm them, even
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192824	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192826	I agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund that surrogate mothers are not a major practical problem and, by the way, something that the Danish Parliament has taken a position on. But then it could be other things. It could be freedom of speech. It could be the question of the recognition of marriages, where one party is under the age of sex, which is much under discussion at the moment, which is not so in the heart of foreign policy. It has been in Denmark, but in principle it is about the recognition of marriages. So why is it that a bunch of judges, where we even agree on that, and I am pleased about that, and thank you for the fact that many of them are unqualified, should have authority in those areas? Why not say once and for all: we want to get out of that morass? I think it was sir. Henrik Sass Larsen, who was told at one point that we should get out of all the conventions. For my part, I could not agree more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192912	Whether we are talking about court or convention, of course the two things are connected, but I think that when you look at the wording of the Convention, it is very difficult to disagree, and a great deal of that is also something that is already part of our constitutional rights in Denmark. When we talk about the court, the court's decisions and the activism and the way the court's decisions have been incorporated into Danish law, we have a problem. So I have no problem with the fact that we support the Convention and that it has been ratified in Denmark, but I have a problem with the fact that we have incorporated the decisions into Danish law. I think we should address that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119192957	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance present in the Chamber. So I can give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193018	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. It is, of course, a little sad that now, as the debate has progressed, it has been such a ten small cyclists, we are not four left in the Chamber, regardless of this important subject. No, now it's pouring in. There have been various comments on these questions on the points of criticism that have been raised. Let me grab a couple of them. The issue of designation has not been central. On the other hand, a number of people have pointed to the issue of viability. Do we have a situation where there's reason to look at this? I have indicated that I think there is reason to look at that. I have also indicated that I do not know exactly how this is to be done. But in relation to the activism we agree on what Mrs Pernille Vermund has said as: here and no longer. In fact, this is what was tried to do with the Copenhagen Declaration, just in a more sophisticated way, so to say that we need to have a dialogue on how this activism can be reduced. I am, in fact, there to be accused of being a cheerleader of optimism, in relation to what that initiative can lead to, on the basis of what has happened now. But summa summarum, there's still a lot to work with. I thank you for the debate and for the constructive contributions that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193157	There are brief remarks to the Minister of Justice. It's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193212	It's not that I have to carry on unnecessarily. I just want to know what the government intends to do so actively. I made a few specific proposals, even at the direct initiative of the Minister of Justice, in relation to what could be done to improve the procedural rules of the court. And Mr. Jeppe Bruus mentioned earlier that perhaps one should look at whether there is a connection between the judges who judge very actively, for example. the former Portuguese judge, who was so out of his mind, Mr. Pinto, and then their background. All these things could be interesting, and there is probably not too much after such an hour and a half of a turn around here about the Court of Human Rights to ask the Minister for Justice to be a little specific about what we can expect from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193255	Well, I think that some interesting issues have been raised, including the fact that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself. Among other things: I took note of the inspiration you might have. I noted it because Mr. Morten Messerschmidt started by saying that here one can be inspired by the European Court of Justice, and then I would like to know what it was we were moving into. It turned out so and I thought it was reasonable that there seems to be another way of dealing with the problem of disability, which could be an example of what one could do. I think that, as Mr. Jeppe Bruus said about the judges and the background, and whether there is a particular connection here, if it is to be unveiled, the more is a research project of some nature that must be able to uncover it. So I think that various ways have been opened up to uncover some of the problems that we have been around today. I am going to go to this with an open mind, and unfortunately I cannot draw up such a gross list at this stage of what initiatives are supposed to result from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193406	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193408	Of course, I fully accept that and would just like to say that if we can start with the study that Mr. Jeppe Bruus has suggested, that would be very fine. I hope that we do not need to call a new question debate so as to produce a text for adoption requiring the government to do so. If we're gonna say we're gonna get started by the end of this Parliament year, that would be great. May I just say that I am therefore inspired by all the courts and practices that may be needed to improve the systems. So I have often suggested to the Minister for Justice that the European Court of Justice should take advantage of the possibility of disinflation which exists at the Court of Human Rights and that I have now found some rules of insanity at the European Court of Justice, which can be inspired by Strasbourg. Well, I don't want it to hold me back. Well, as Mao Zedong said, it doesn't really matter what color the cat is, just it catches mice. And there are a lot of mice here, but there are just not many cats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193500	It was well tried, after we have now read a whole series of different proposals for adoption, that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt then just tried to sneak in here in the end, that the government should take on a special commitment. Now, unfortunately, when the text of the adoption is formulated, it cannot be changed, and I am sure that we will be allowed to discuss it here on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193529	There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193531	Thank you. And I actually fully understand that the Minister of Justice cannot tell us today how and how to proceed with the work. The only thing I am trying to raise the flag is that this should only be done in cooperation with both the Committee of Ministers, that is. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). In relation to some experience in connection with the Copenhagen Declaration, I can say that one of the reasons why the Copenhagen Declaration might not be as sharp as what we wanted was that there was also opposition from among others. certain parts of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So it's just a little hand to a ministry that may not have so much daily time at the various political levels of the Council of Europe, and it's just to remember that the interaction is also important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193615	That view has been noted and is indeed a repetition of the view which Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen also presented earlier in the debate so I have taken it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193623	Thus, there are no further brief comments to the Minister. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the many proposals for adoption submitted has been postponed so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193722	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119193746	Thank you. Hopefully, during 2021, we can start waving goodbye to many of the restrictions we have had to live with for almost a year now to a greater or lesser extent. At the same time, we all know that, unfortunately, Covid-19 will hardly be the last time we are hit by a violent pandemic here in Denmark, and next time it can become a completely different kind of epidemic, pandemic, which we will have to fight with, so we must of course do everything we can to ensure that the law will also be useful at that time for the government and the parliament that might be here at that time. So we must not only think about the current epidemic, but also, of course, about the risk of future epidemics. Our epidemic law must be the toolbox that can be used by both present and future governments against a serious disease, so we are well equipped. This epidemic has taught us that it is crucial to be able to act quickly. When the infection spreads, we need to be ready to strike down. We can also see that the Danes have supported and followed the restrictions that have been announced. It has saved many lives. That is why, of course, it has also been important that, with a new epidemic law, we continue to have the opportunity to take swift and effective action against the infection. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it has been important to make it clear that, in the end, it is the politicians who make the decisive decisions when we talk about what is a social-critical disease and about what action needs to be taken to contain it. The decision to abolish large sections of society has far-reaching consequences for all of us, and such a central decision must not lie with just a small group of officials; it must lie with elected politicians who are accountable to the people. So that's what we're gonna do with this model. So the decisions lie with the politicians, but of course on the basis of the recommendations and considerations of the health authorities, and we must, of course, listen to the health authorities. It is therefore very good that this draft law establishes the Epidemic Commission with representatives of, among others. It is precisely the health authorities. In future, therefore, the Commission will have to advise the government and make recommendations on new measures, and the recommendations will then have to be submitted to a parliamentary committee, which will also be set up in the legislative proposal, i.e. an epidemic committee, and at the same time it will also have to publish the recommendations they make, so that there is transparency in the recommendations and decisions that are made, while the Folketing has power and control. So in this way we are establishing a good division of labour between politicians and authorities, where the authorities of the Epidemic Commission come up with recommendations and recommendations, but where it is politicians in government, in parliament and in an epidemic committee that decide what is to be implemented. And that gives this law a really reasonable balance and helps to ensure that it will also be useful in the future. I just need to say something about coercion right here at the end of the speech. Now some of the things that have filled a lot have been forced into vaccination, and I just think it is important to say from the platform that there is therefore no form of forced vaccination in this epidemic law; there has been this for many, many years, also in earlier epidemic laws, but there is no such thing in this new epidemic law. So it's written out of the new law. That's all from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194157	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and first of all it is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194206	Thank you. One of the elements of the new section 28 is that which deals with measures against a multiple of persons who have been found in places where the infection has been detected. There we are now introducing a completely new concept and a collectivist punishment in which people can be forced to isolate themselves, and they can be fined, and that is where the term plurality is used. Could the rapporteur not just try to clarify and define what is meant by the term 'plurality': is it really two people, is it three people, or what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194249	It may be in case there has been, let's say, a coronafest or something like that where there has been widespread infection; then it makes great sense that you test yourself and isolate yourself, so that you not only hit yourself with the infection here, but even worse pass the infection on to others and perhaps even to vulnerable people. In the vast majority of cases this is solved by common sense through voluntary action, but there may be cases where it is not enough, and in those cases it is so that a government sometime in the future has to ask this epidemic committee, that is, the Parliament's epidemic committee, whether it can be supported to demand that this group of people, for example, be forcibly tested and, in special cases, forcibly isolated, and if the majority of the Folketing backs up, it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194352	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194354	As Section 28 states, the Minister for Health and the Elderly can lay down rules for doing so, i.e. the Minister for Health and the Elderly can put forward these rules about it. I would also like to ask where this applies, because here it is not a requirement that you have been near the person who is infected, i.e. as a user via the infection app or something else; you just have to have been to the same event. And it doesn't even have to be an event. It may also be, if it is an employee of a company, that one can then demand the entire company closed down and that people should go home, which can have disastrous economic impact on that company. It may also apply if it is a customer in Bilka and all of Bilka therefore must shut down and therefore all customers in Bilka must also be forcibly isolated. After all, this is a new break and a collectivist way of looking at things, and I would like to ask the rapporteur if he sees any concerns in the way of making legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194446	No, I'll be honest with you. I don't. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentions some cases where this can theoretically come into play, and these will be very, very special events, where this is even being discussed, and where this is at all a necessary tool to use. But in special situations, in particularly dangerous situations, it is precisely that a government should come and meet the Parliament's epidemic committee and seek support to make such decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194521	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194525	I also wondered why the rapporteur specifically said that there was no compulsion here. Well, now the language and semantics can be gracious, but when we read that section 22 of the bill specifically states that the police should assist the authorities in enforcing the decisions taken by the Patient Safety Agency, including that individuals should be examined, admitted, isolated, processed, tested, cleaned, etc. And so on, what's in it that's gonna get mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff to say: It is not coercion? So, what's the difference between the police having to use their power monopoly to enforce the orders of the government and coercion? What is this middle ground that you don't cross here, according to Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194610	What I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech was that there is no forced vaccination. This is the case in current legislation, and there were earlier epidemic legislations, but there is no such thing in the current legislative proposal that has been put forward here and that we are dealing with first here today; there is no possibility of forced vaccination. But what is possible is precisely what the Danish People's Party drummed for here just a few months ago, and now I understand that for some reason and without argument, the party has changed its mind that people who have been exposed to the risk of infection may be required to isolate themselves; they may be forced to do so. It was the Danish People's Party's policy back in August. I could understand that you should even wear ankle bracelet, but the party has changed its mind today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194703	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194705	So there is what the rapporteur thought was that it is specifically in relation to vaccination that there is no compulsion, otherwise there is force in mass. It is, of course, a good thing to set up, and it is also good to put it on the record. Then there is the guarantee given by the rapporteur in relation to the parliamentary, that is to say, that a parliamentary majority can vouch for certain interventions if at that time, perhaps 10 years, 15 years or later, there is a wish for it. There I would just like to ask: how does Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff that parliamentarianism has worked in the past year? Does he think that the government has been good at involving the Folketing in even the drastic decisions, or could one perhaps put other words on the governance we have experienced?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194747	I think that parliamentarianism has worked very well in extremely difficult circumstances with the support of the Danish Parliament. After all, there is no government that can be government if there is a majority of the people against it. In relation to the first, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions, of course, it is apologies for the phrase "a bunch of nonsense" to say that there is a lot of compulsion here and there and everywhere. That's not true. There is the possibility of forced testing on special occasions, and there is the possibility of compulsory isolation on special occasions, if a majority of the House so permits. It is not a question of requiring an ankle bracelet, which the Danish People's Party has proposed. There is no such thing with this proposal, but it is possible to ask people to stay at home and if they can't find out, then in special situations you can demand it not with ankle bracelet, but without it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194842	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194846	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. I had time to read some of the hearing answers. Among other things, there were: one from SIND, where they request that administrative decisions may also be subject to parliamentary control. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194909	Whether administrative decisions can be subject to parliamentary control? I simply have to ask Mrs Susanne Zimmer to elaborate or explain it a little further and give a few examples of it. Then I'd like to answer as well as I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194929	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119194931	Now they have not given examples, but I think it may be the kind of thing that concerns the residents who live in a nursing home and have their own accommodation there and where you close the nursing home. No, I can't give some really good examples, but would there be a willingness to go in and look at that hearing answer? Because I think that, reading it, it makes sense that there may be some intrusive administrative things that leave power to the Health Service instead of to the government. In other words, you move it up or you move it down, and where is parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195017	In any case, I can say that I and the Social Democrats are willing to look into it further in committee and then we have to find out what we think is the right thing to do. But at least I'm willing to keep looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195032	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195034	Thank you very much. Now we've been listening to the noise from downstairs for a very long time now. It's probably over after today. Maybe we don't quite know that, but we can hope so. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that the process we have been through in order to create a new law has been properly clarified, including to the people who are on the street and to us as parliamentarians who are going to be involved in deciding it? I would like to know if the rapporteur thinks that in view of the time we have been given to go through, let us just say the hearings today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195114	I think that all this we've been through this past year has been, and still is, an insanely difficult situation for all of us. It is for the authorities, it is for all the health professionals who work out there, it is for the government, and it is for us Members of Parliament as well. I am sure that there are a lot of things we would all do differently if we had the opportunity to do things differently. I'm afraid we haven't. I would say that what I think is worth noting is the final bill here, which I think has just taken note of all the concerns that have come from the Danish People's Party, which has come from a lot of organisations and which have also come from other parties in the Folketing, and has responded to them. This applies to the two main points: to get compulsory vaccination out of the law and to increase parliamentary control into the law. The two things I think have been accommodated very, very nicely, and I think that the Danish People's Party should recognise this even if you did not get your proposal for ankles in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195227	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195229	Now I want to say that I've never asked anything about ankle chains. I think it was a flicker from someone in DF. That's the way it is, and now I'm the one who's been working on the epidemic law. But we all got 86 hearings at 8:00 a.m. 2:00 this afternoon. Is it not to fool the people who have sat and worked and read through these documents, which we shall then have to take a position on afterwards? Can you be familiar with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195301	That is why it is good that the Folketing works as the Folketing works, so that we do not both have to deal with amendments and adopt the bill today. This allows us to express our views here and then to continue working and to talk to the organisations to be talked to, and also to deal with it in committee and to table amendments if that is what is needed, and to clarify additional things if anything comes up in the consultation answers. Of course, all of us, including the government, must do our utmost to ensure that we can all make the final decision on the third reading of the bill on an enlightened basis that we can all feel secure about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195344	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and if the rapporteur wants to prepare for the next rapporteur, I would be very grateful. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Martin Geertsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195406	Thank you. Since March last year the Danes have been living with a situation in which the government has been equipped with some quite tremendous powers it will, fortunately, end soon. Before Christmas, a broad majority of this Parliament reached a political agreement on a new epidemic law, and in the Left we went to those negotiations with a desire for more folk rule, legal certainty and transparency, and I would like to thank the other parties for having what we came for. As has already been said, we are now introducing some popular government into the future management of the epidemic. This will be done by setting up a special parliamentary committee with which the government must seek support through greater intervention and restrictions. The new committee, for example, must: I would like to make a few comments on the question of freedom of assembly, the size of assembly, freedom of movement, access to premises and a great deal more. We also, as something new, have a national epidemic commission set up, and the Commission is tasked with delivering recommendations to the government on a purely health-care basis in connection with an epidemic. With the new National Epidemic Commission, we will have some more transparency in relation to what our health authorities are recommending, and the recommendations and recommendations will be based on a hopefully balanced basis, as there will also be other professional bodies such as financial and legal bodies represented in the new Commission. The lack of transparency, proportionality and balance in the last 10 months of epidemic management seems to us to be very great. Having said that, I am glad that in the political agreement itself we have given each other a handshake that, in the light of the consultations, there will be an opportunity for us to discuss individual elements of the legislative proposal itself. I think that is needed. Because when you look into the legislative proposal itself, I think that most people can agree that it is, of course, a horror cabinet of various handles which this and, for that matter, future governments can also bring into operation in an epidemic situation. I think it is important to say in this context that, although we are all looking at this draft law with today's coronabrillas, and we think it is all very bad right now, what it is, no one can rule out that in future we cannot face an epidemic that is even more contagious and even more lethal than corona. I therefore believe that there is a need to say quite loudly, quite clearly and quite clearly that this is an epidemic law, not a corona law. It is a law which must also be able to stand up to something that may be much worse than corona, which is why, in our view, it is the most important task of ensuring control of the government in place at any time in relation to the provisions contained in this new epidemic law. And, of course, several handles have been assigned to ensure the control of the draft law that we are now seeing in front of us. We have parliamentary control in the form of the new committee; we have the call for a recommendation from the Epidemic Commission; we have sunset clauses and a number of other time limits; we have the new appeal body; and we have justice. I think there is a need, Minister, for us to have a discussion on whether all the paragraphs of what we are seeing in front of us now are now well enough under control, whether they are well enough fenced in. Without my list being exhaustive in any way, I just need to point out a few things that we would like to discuss whether we should not give an extra enclosure. This is true, for example. the very individual-oriented restrictions on isolation, treatment and hospitalization. I think we need to have a discussion on whether or not we should give these paragraphs an extra enclosure for health care and parliamentary care. At the same time, we also believe that there is a need to look at the paragraphs relating to an injunction that groups in a given situation should be isolated and/or investigated. I think there is a need for us to take another round on the possibility of enforcement and sanctions in relation to these specific response options. I think it is a little unclear about what we have in front of us. As I have said, these examples are not an exhaustive list of the challenges that we still see in the present draft of a new epidemic law; they are challenges among a number of others that I think we must try to resolve together in the same constructive spirit as the agreement was reached right before Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195905	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195912	Thank you very much. Well, it is true that the Left has thundered against the will of the government. Is this law gonna make things better? In other words, when we come into force on 1 March and this one comes into force, the government, together with the Red parties, can have a majority and put the Left and other bourgeois parties outside the door. Is that what the Left is so pleased about, so that now they can finally be allowed to be part of it, that we listen to the citizens and that we get more than just a parliamentary majority? Is the Left really happy with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119195953	I would like to say to Mrs Liselott Blixt that this is far better than the situation we see today. After all, we will have some transparency in relation to what kind of recommendations come from the health authorities. Well, I simply cannot tell the difference between the Minister and Søren Brostrøm, or rather, I do not know what the difference is. But it will be clarified when we have an epidemic commission where there is a recommendation from the Epidemic Commission with minutes and everything else there is transparency. Then we will have an institution here in the Danish Parliament, a parliamentary committee in which Mrs Liselott Blixt will hopefully do me the honour of being here and where we can actually sit and sanction what comes from the government. I think we should discuss whether there is nothing more that should be sanctioned by this committee. We must, of course, discuss this among the parties that have wanted to be part of this agreement. But I think this is far. It's far better parliamentary, it's much more transparent than this gunpowder we've seen in the last 10 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200051	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200053	Well, I agree with the rapporteur that this is much better, but it is not good enough. That is simply not good enough, because there has not been the time there should be to work with it. And I guess so, sir. Martin Geertsen will agree with me. That is why I do not understand why we can be satisfied because we do not know how that committee will work, what information is coming, if the government just forms its majority with its supporters; it can always give something with one hand and help with the other. And then it puts the bourgeois forces and Martin Geertsen outside the door.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200130	But that is politics, Mrs Liselott Blixt. So does Mrs Liselott Blixt, that is to say, the matter of being left out of control. I myself have been largely in opposition while I have been sitting in the Folketing, so it is well known, so that is the way it is, you just have to say. I also agree with the point that the process has been quite foolish, and I think we have had a number of discussions on this in the Parliamentary Assembly several times, but that is because I think that the government was very slow in fulfilling the wish that a majority of the Folketing actually had to make a new epidemic law. And I don't think it's fair to blame the Left for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200207	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200212	Now I'm not a health rapporteur. I'm not even on the Health Committee. On the other hand, I sit in the Folketing and amaze more and more at what I hear. Because for a year, I've heard Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Martin Geertsen and other And now there is a law where you are part of the settlement and where you cement that the government can do whatever it wants simply by consulting its left-wing parliamentary hinterland. In other words, I have understood so much that we in the Danish People's Party have proposed that the government should be obliged to extend the circle, perhaps to two thirds of the Danish Parliament, something such that at least one had a real opportunity to be heard. And that was one of the things I heard and understood that the Left wanted to do in the past year. So where on earth are we seeing the improvement now? This is just a codification of everything that the Left has spent a year criticizing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200316	No, that is simply not true. That is simply not true, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. After all, we now have an opportunity to sanction positively or negatively the various positions that come from the government of the parliamentary committee. It may be that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is an expert on the D'Hondt method, but there will be 21 people on this new parliamentary committee. I don't know if sir. Peder Hvelplund looks like a man who's an expert on something like this. I am quite sure that the Danish People's Party will also be represented on this new committee and can make its influence felt there. And it is therefore a committee which will be sanctioned. Following recommendations from the Epidemic Commission, proposals come to the government, which are then sanctioned in this new parliamentary committee. It is therefore an institution which is light years better than a government which can just drive out there without having to consult anyone at all, by the way, not even their own parliamentary hinterland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200410	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200411	Well, I have no doubt it's better. The question is, what's better than that? In other words, as I remember, the Left also supported the epidemic law that applies today, which will soon have one year's birthday. We did the same in the Danish People's Party. I thought we agreed to have been disappointed and not to experience quite that the confidence we showed the government there had been met. Why, then, is it that on this matter the Left suddenly has such strong confidence that the way in which the committee is put together will bring to shame the whole of the year's experience in which the government has run a method that would make Estrup jealous?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200458	Now I would like to say to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt: I have simply not heard what kind of parliamentary institutional structure the Danish People's Party has proposed as an alternative to what we see in the draft law before us now. I just haven't heard that. But I would very much like to discuss with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, what it would be for a model. What I can see is that the Danish People's Party is being represented on this new committee, and it is, as I said, a much better institutional structure than what we have witnessed so far, where the government has just been able to drive there without consulting anyone, including neither the Danish People's Party nor the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200534	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200537	I understand that the Left got what they came for in the negotiations and is therefore included in this agreement. There are some people who didn't get anything, and that's business. Actually, they're not in it at all. A committee is being set up, a mandate to look into it. And if we're going to translate it from christiansborg to Danish, it means kicking it to the corner and then we hope it goes away by itself. But it doesn't; business is still out there in a crisis. And I would like to ask the rapporteur: how can the Left be involved in an agreement to create a new epidemic law in which no rights have been guaranteed to business? Business is going to be completely out of business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200620	I think it was extremely important that we had an epidemic law put in place quickly. Lars Boje Mathiesen in that business has been beating on the restriction policy that the government has made. And some of the things that I imagine, in addition to all the hands on-economical about aid packages, which must be dealt with in such a committee work, is that hopefully a result will be arrived at that restrictions and financial aid packages are therefore something that goes together in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200706	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200708	Yeah, it's fine, but it just doesn't, because it's not part of the law. And that is the law that we vote through, which then deprives the business community of any right that they actually had with § 27 which is being removed. And when you look at it, I'd like to draw some attention to one thing. We have proposed from the New Citizen that all parties are guaranteed representation in this committee a very concrete proposal. Will the Left support such an amendment because, as I understand it in relation to that method, there may in fact be cases where not all parties will be represented if the method of d'Hondt is used. But could the Left support the fact that we will at least have to check whether it is ensured that all the parties will always be represented in this committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200756	Well, I'm kind of interested in investigating all sorts of things. There's been a deal, and I assume that mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen refers to the 21-man committee, i.e. the Political Committee in the Folketing, when he talks about committees. And I'm kind of interested in investigating all sorts of things. A political agreement has been drawn up which states that there must be 21 members of that committee, and that is, in fact, an agreement that we stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200819	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please take a wet napkin and prepare for the next speaker? Thank you for the rapporteur preparing the platform for the Danish People's Party's Health Rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, to come to the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119200856	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we again look with concern at the fact that we are getting a new epidemic law that has not received the necessary treatment. After all, on 12 March, the epidemic law that is now in operation, and it did not take many months until a majority of the parliamentary parties agreed that it was wrongly knitted together, one can say, and that is why we said to the Minister that we would now take power from the Minister. I think everyone remembers that, but it took almost six months for us to learn something from the Minister. I think I've been to two meetings with Peter Skaarup for half an hour about what we wanted. We also remember when the Minister had called his support parties to a meeting where the bourgeois parties were not present to discuss epidemic law, and then we were invited at the end and had a plan put forward for what the new epidemic law could contain. Of course, there was a lot of listening; I think we had to do that too. It was just as the Socialist rapporteur said earlier on up here with regard to compulsory vaccines, and it was that there should be parliamentary governance. But I must also say that when we were talking about what kind of committee it was supposed to be, the Danish People's Party came up with another proposal that no one supported. I also hear the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party mention the same thing: that all parties could be represented, that there could be one from each party or at least two thirds of the Folketing in one way or another, so that there was a broader parliamentary basis than just a simple majority. But it was poured down the board, and that is one of the great reasons why we certainly do not want to be there. I mean, the process has been, as I said earlier, that we got 86 consultation answers, and we all got that here at 8 a.m. 2:00 today. We got some kl. 00.30 last night I slept there but I got read some of them this morning. I do not think that is a proper way of working. At the same time, we are not being informed of any of the things that are happening. I can tell you that last week there was an announcement. It was launched, and it is precisely about the parts that citizens find difficult to relate to. It's Order No. 36 of 13 January 2021 relating to the detection, examination, admission or isolation of infectious and other communicable diseases in relation to the management of the corona virus. I have a lot of questions to ask the Minister there, because there are a number of announcements. Now it came into force last week without us being reminded of it or telling us when it will run out. Does it go on when this epidemic law comes into force? We find that worrying, that is to say, that we are actually just launching it without us being told anything. It may well be that the parties to the agreement behind the epidemic law know about it: whether all the announcements that actually have to be made again will just be retabled, and then the new epidemic law will be avoided. In relation to the bill itself, it has always sounded as we have also asked that coercion is gone because it is also the forced part of it. Yes, we also want some to go into isolation, and we also want some to be tested if they do not go into isolation, but that is more than that. In other words, when we read the draft Code of Epidemics, coercion has been replaced with injunctions, and commands are the same, and so we must be able to allow a person to be admitted and treated, and we think that is a drastic step, because what are the practitioners? Where does the bill say, what treatment is given to the individual who, with the help of the police, can hospitalize a person and treat him? These are some of the things we think we should have some answers to when we come to the second reading. At the same time, there are other things that we think should have been looked at, for example. the compensation. It is said in the draft epidemic law that a committee is being set up, but no one knows what it is about. I just got to read some of the consultation answers that were from Danish Business, HORESTA, etc. that simply lack answers to what should happen when this comes into force. They have not received an answer to that question. Fortunately, I have also seen hearing answers from the Alzheimer's Association and the Elders Case, because they have sent them directly to us; then you are lucky, because then you have time to read it through. They lack answers to the basics of being able to determine the individual's own home in a nursing home. There's no answer to that. There are also some who lack answers to what we have learned from this corona crisis about isolating people, for example. the mentally ill or others who have to sit alone mean to mental mental health. There is also a lack of answers to that. So there are a lot of things, and I can't get into it all, but I'm asking some questions. And no, we cannot back this because it could have been better, and we will not accept half a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201505	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201512	Thank you. It was actually one thing, as Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned in her rapporteur's speech, and as I heard Mr Liselott Blixt earlier. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentioned the fact that all parties are not guaranteed representation in the Epidemis Committee. And I will just hear what Mrs Liselott Blixt is basing that statement on, because it was precisely also crucial to the Enhedslisten, and that is why we had it changed from, as was proposed, that 17 members should sit in the Epidemis Committee, that it should instead be 21 members, because it ensures that there will be representation of all parties, including parties represented by four members of the Folketing. That is what we know from, for example. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which has 21 members, as opposed to, for example, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. The Committee on Bodily Rights, where there are 17 members and where not all parties are represented. So what does Mrs Liselott Blixt base the assumption that the bill should not ensure representation of all parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201604	I cannot refer to what others have said in a closed meeting, but I can say what I said myself in a closed meeting, and that was that we wanted a different composition in the group. There were, of course, various comments which I cannot comment on in relation to how one could represent oneself in a committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201626	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201628	But what I am asking for is what Mrs Liselott Blixt is basing this statement on: when there are 21 members on the committee, it does not ensure representation of all the parties because that is the clear information we have received. That is also what we know from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, for example, where all parties have their seats, because the D'Hondt method ensures that it is precisely by 21 Members that all parties are then represented. So what is the basis on which Mrs Liselott Blixt bases that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201654	I am basing it on a conversation I had when we debated who should sit there and who should not, as some would like, sit there if special parties entered the Folketing. In relation to the D'Hondt method, a note gave us an estimate of who could sit on the committee, and we could see how many members each party could have sat on the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201716	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201721	Thank you. I thought I had attended all the meetings, but there must be one that has been missed, I can hear, but that is not really why I took the floor. The rapporteur and I have discussed forced treatment very, very many times in different contexts, because it is also part of the Health Act. So I should just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that, when it is a citizen who is at risk to himself or others, we have a responsibility to intervene and also to offer coercive treatment if that is how it might be necessary. It's not like we're making a corona law. Now it is an epidemic law that we are making, and it could be a citizen who was infected with ebola and who was not prepared to be isolated himself but insists on going out among everyone else. What would the rapporteur actually prefer in this situation: that we have the opportunity or that it must be up to the individual to decide for himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201820-2	We have a lot of legislation in the field of health against ill-treatment, and we have a health legislation that allows administrative coercion to be actually applied to people who cannot understand their own illness or what they are exposing others to, and thus we should be able to do what Mrs Kirsten Normann asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201841	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201841-2	In concrete terms, the follow-up group is informed that coercion has been used in a few very few situations, such as: It is about protecting physically vulnerable citizens, who cannot keep their distance from others themselves, from the fact that infected citizens with dementia have insisted on entering their homes and there they have chosen to detain a demented citizen. What would the rapporteur have preferred to have done in this situation, and does it not make sense to have this opportunity to ensure that a person does not harm others and himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201924	As I said before, I believe that health legislation can be applied. Secondly, the epidemic law does not say that it is intolerable for citizens to be used against; it is, of course, against all citizens, and that is what is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201941	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119201958	Thank you. Now we have all been living under an epidemic for almost a year, and we have all experienced and are still experiencing what the current epidemic law can result from restrictions and restrictions in our daily lives. It is comprehensive and intrusive, and I understand that the legislative proposal we are about to deal with now raises a debate. Now I cannot hear them out in the Palace Square, but they have at least pointed out that there are some who are very aware of what we are doing in here today. That should also be the case, because it will be a very important and very intrusive law. But it should also be clear why these steps have been taken, because, unfortunately, if you look into the world, we can see countries that have been taken by the coronapandemic and where communities suffer seriously from morbidity and death. We have avoided this far along the way in Denmark. So, although it is intrusive, the consequences of not intervening would have been significantly worse. So there is undoubtedly a need for an epidemic law. Hopefully it will not be used again for many, many years, but if necessary, it must be ready. I used the picture in an earlier debate that it's like a house insurance. You want it to stay in the drawer, but when the accident is out, it is absolutely necessary to have it. You also have to read it small, because this law must last for many years, and it must be ready for the next epidemic and not target the current corona epidemic. I have stressed on several occasions what we in the Radical Left attach particular importance to, namely the balance between the essential health-care input and the political decisions, including openness on the recommendations of the Epidemic Commission; much better parliamentary control of the decisions taken; and then, of course, we must ensure the legal certainty of citizens, because there is no and must not be a contradiction between public health and the rule of law. The legislative proposal we are now considering is significantly better than what was put forward earlier, but I have also warned the Minister that we should have time to read through the consultation answers that I, like my colleague, only received late last night and that, if necessary, we must table the amendments that need to be tabled. But we have come a long way: an epidemic committee to exercise parliamentary control over the powers used; a broad-based epidemic commission to bring about professional attitudes; automatic sunset clauses also on the epidemic law itself; direct redress; automatic judicial review by coercive measures. And, as something very important, the principle of proportionality has been written in, so the least intrusive means must always be used first. That is all well and good, and it was also absolutely crucial for us in the Radical Left, but I have also read the concerns expressed recently: have we secured ourselves well enough in the Epidemic Commission? Shouldn't it be the Health Authority that sits at the end of the table? Have we secured legal certainty well enough? Is the balance right between the positions of the Epidemic Commission and the political level? We will have to clarify this in the near future. There are, for example: Questioned the now mentioned section 28 about being able to intervene against a multitude of people, as it is so beautifully described. There are several potential problems, although I understand perfectly the purpose of the paragraph. There is no automatic judicial review, and I find that very problematic. And how is this even to be enforced when, of course, one is free to take part in demonstrations without registering? Can we not achieve exactly the same by making recommendations rather than injunctions, because in practice it will end up being a call? Perhaps it is even better because it shows confidence in the people. We will have to clarify this in the near future. Concern has also been expressed about the balance between health professional attitudes and political decisions, particularly in the categorization of social-critical diseases, which is what activates the epidemic law. It must never be the minister in office who makes that decision at any time alone. This is also not the case in the legislative proposal we are debating now. There must be parliamentary support here to categorize a disease as a social-critical and thereby activate the epidemic law. I think this is sensible, as it has very far-reaching consequences and therefore must also be followed by political responsibility. It must not be left on the shoulders of officials alone. It is a political decision on a health-care basis, but we must, of course, make sure that the balance is right. So in the Radical Left we are very positive about the changes that have so far been made, but we must have read everything carefully to see whether further adjustments need to be made. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119202441	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There does not seem to be any brief comments to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119202516	That has been said many times before, but it can bear to be repeated: no one in the current Parliament has ever given the epidemic law a thought until 2020. In less than a year, however, the law has become one of the most controversial laws for many years. Every citizen has at one time or another dealt with the law, which has had such an impact on our everyday lives in recent years on good and evil. Of course we need an epidemic law, but when we got the old law dusted off, the development had run out of it. We lacked equipment, we lacked tests, we lacked staff to take care of the most ill citizens, we even needed medicine. Above all, however, we needed a plan which took public health seriously but which could also take care of our society and ensure security. But it was a temporary law that we adopted on 12 March last year and we need a new epidemic law. And I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your very good cooperation in achieving that objective. We must take the best from the old law and the best from the temporary law and correct the mistakes and shortcomings that a year's work on an epidemic has taught us. In the SF we have been concerned with health, legal certainty for citizens and parliamentary control of the Folketing. It is wise to set up an epidemic committee to ensure the representation of professional experts. An epidemic is, first and foremost, a health-critical state which requires us to bring together experts who are in charge of health care and to carry out the tasks that go with it, but also experts who know something about the virus. But it is also a critical state of society, which requires experts who know something about social conditions. Although I think that the government has shown great courage and action and has handled this epidemic very well at all, it is nevertheless essential for the SF that in future we ensure parliamentary control of the government's decisions. It is absolutely essential for people to have confidence in health care and society that we do not resort to coercion. A high level of confidence in Danish vaccination interventions over the ages is allegedly linked to the fact that we choose the vaccines ourselves. And the fact is that we have never been in a situation where forced vaccination has been necessary. It must also be the starting point of a future epidemic law, and I am therefore very pleased that the old provision has been written out of the epidemic law anno 2021. As in the Health Act, of course, we also have to deal in the epidemic law with what might apply if a citizen is at risk to himself or others, and it has also been necessary during this epidemic to resort, for example, to isolation in a few cases. In the future, coercion will in all cases be automatically tried by a court of law. I have noted the criticism of that particular part of the law, but perhaps it also makes sense to remember that it is not a Corona law that we are in the process of adopting. No one would accept that a citizen with HIV, for example, deliberately infected others. No one would accept that a citizen with ebola could walk freely in society without taking into account others. In SF we have also been concerned with data protection. New technology allows us to collect a great many health data, and it is important for us that citizens can be confident that we take care of citizens' health data and that there is transparency in relation to it. It has been important for us to agree that there should be sunset clauses on announcements in the future, so that citizens can also see that right there in the future we will have to discuss again the announcements that have been issued and that it has been necessary to decide on along the way. In conclusion, I would like to say that it has been difficult to read all the answers to the hearing. They have come really late, so I will, as others have done, allow me to reserve the possibility that there may be questions and considerations that we need to take on board and which we need to think about before we get to the second and third readings. However, as a starting point, I am very pleased that we have arrived at this point, that we can now deal first with a final draft of an epidemic law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119202956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and after a dissipation it's fine, thank you. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203024	Thank you. The last time we stood in this Chamber and had to pass an epidemic law, it was the emergency law that we adopted on 12 March following an extremely complicated process and under enormous pressure of time, because we were in a totally incalculable and serious situation. We had to act quickly, and fortunately this has also resulted in a fairly successful handling of the whole Corona crisis, but with a few flaws in beauty. But it was also a law that transferred immense powers from the Folketing to the government that removed democratic control in a crisis situation and allowed restrictions on freedoms. It therefore also meant a great deal for Enhedslisten to secure both the preservation of the most basic freedoms and a sunset clause. For we must protect both our common health and our common freedoms. The sunset clause is also the concrete reason why we are here today. The emergency law expires on 1 March, and it is of course crucial that we continue to have an epidemic law to be able to maintain control of the corona virus and, moreover, also with possible future zoonoses, of which we will probably see more. We also note that the proposal we are debating today, which is the result of a political agreement between most of the parties in the Folketing, is a significant improvement on the proposal put forward by the government last year. In relation to this proposal, there were some crucial demands from the Enhedslisten: we had to ensure a clear democratic control; the far-reaching powers that might be necessary to combat a pandemic must be based on a majority of parliaments; it should be ensured that there is a clear and clear division between the health assessments and the political decisions; in other words, it should be clear when it is the health profession that speaks and when it is a political responsibility; that we had a limitation on the period of authorisation, in this case for four weeks, in relation to the new proposal, so that they are regularly reviewed; that we had a parliamentary representation from all parties in the epidemic committee; that we had the removal of forced vaccinations; that we had legal certainty strengthened through automatic judicial review; that a minimum principle of intervention and proportionality became essential; and, in general, to ensure greater transparency and transparency of decisions. I think we have come a great deal far in relation to the draft we are discussing today, but there are still knots and room for improvement. We did not get the hearing answer until late last night, and it is precisely part of the political agreement that the consultations can give rise to changes. I would therefore like to draw attention now to elements on which we will focus in committee and there will certainly be more when we chew properly through all the consultation responses. It still seems rather unclear how the provisions of Paragraph 28 on the plurality of persons are to be implemented and enforced. We recognise the need to ensure that citizens who have participated in an event where there has been spread of infection are subsequently tested, but how will the authorities demonstrate that a citizen has participated? Is it by buying a ticket, a press of the participant in a facebook event, that others have seen one? Obviously that cannot be enough. So how will a requirement of documentation be lifted by the authorities, and will you be able to impose a penalty or, in this case, a fine at all? It must be clarified, just as, if it were to be introduced, it should also be examined whether it should be followed by a requirement of automatic judicial review. It must also be ensured that there will be a form of commitment within the Epidemic Commission to obtain contributions from relevant parties. This may be in relation to ensuring proportionality in relation to the impact of interventions on e.g. vulnerable groups, to combat distrust and loneliness and to strengthen spiritual and cultural life. This may apply in relation to the inclusion of relevant health professional experience. It will also be important for Enhedslisten to ensure that there will be an obligation to revise the law, for example. Every five years. Society is changing, and so is the disease picture. That is why it will be necessary to take the law forward, for example. Every five years, and give it a review to ensure that it is still present and meets the requirements of an epidemic law in the future situation. In conclusion, I hope that with this law we can ensure that we will never again see a 12 March when we have to adopt such a far-reaching law in such a hurry. At the same time, I would also like to stress that this law will not be left alone in order to equip us to withstand future epidemics. We will also strengthen preparedness, hygiene, healthcare and care capacity, prevention, production of protective equipment, testing capacity and vaccine production. But overall, Enhedslisten is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203530	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203533	Thank you. I would like to start by signing that Enhedslisten also focuses on § 28. And as I read it, it is not even a condition that there has been spread of infection that should just have been detected on the spot. I think that is also very, very serious and very cross-border, in relation to what should be done. I would like to ask a few questions about the debate we had about the 21, and I fully acknowledge that Enhedslisten was one of the parties that stated that it should be 21, because then all the groups were secured by the d'Hondt method as I have just understood it. But the concern we had in New Citizens when we said that we wanted it to be all parties represented is, of course, whether a party in which there is a member leaving the party, such as the one in which the party is represented. The Liberal Alliance has been exposed to this year, so also by the method is ensured that they do not lose their place, or that it falls to some others, by the fact that you may have moved to another party that a party may lose their place by some change during a parliamentary period. That was the concern I had about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203634	I would like to start by saying that, in relation to section 28, I definitely think that this will be some of what we need to look at. Of course, concern can be raised about the extent to which it can be demonstrated that a citizen has participated in an event where there has been infection or spread of infection, and this must, of course, be ensured. In relation to the issue of representation in the Epidemic Committee, what has been crucial for the Enhedslisten has just been to ensure that all party groups are guaranteed representation, as for example it. is known by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. All party groups are guaranteed representation, precisely through the D'Hondt method. Then it is clear that there may be a situation where there are divisions of groups and where you come down under four mandates, and then it can be significant. But I think that is something that we need to look at in a specific situation: whether it is something that can be resolved. Otherwise, it will certainly be difficult if it is the case that we have to ensure that everyone, both party groups and non-attached Members, is represented in a parliamentary committee. And that is why we are quite satisfied that, through the fact that we increased the number from 17 to 21, we have precisely ensured that, like other committees, where it is essential that all parties are represented, it also applies to an epidemic committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203745	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203745-2	Yes, but now we have a situation where there is a party in that situation, so it is not inconceivable that this can happen again. And there are a lot of people who have also voted for some of those people. I think that when you use an epidemic law, it is because it is drastic things you are doing, and that is why I am very concerned that you are failing someone. It may then be a little hasty in a committee, but I think that the people's regime can handle that in order to ensure that all people feel that they are represented in such a committee. I would like to ask you about that with a degree of plurality, because I have a problem with defining that. Well, I guess it could be two people. I guess it's multiple. What is the rapporteur's view of that word?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203826	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203827	Yes, and that is why it has also been important that, if you are to use those powers, it is also something that needs to be done through the epidemic committee, so that political treatment is needed. And there we have just been included in the epidemic law, that there is respect for both the principle of proportionality and the minimum principle of intervention. This means that one cannot immediately go to a use of the concept of a multiple of persons. It must also be made conditional on the fact that this is an event which justifies the use of such methods. And, as I said, Paragraph 28 is one of the things we need to look at in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203904	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119203907	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now, sir. Peder Hvelplund developed into the best friend of the Left in this context, and of course I will be careful not to abuse it, and I would like to sign for it despite some of the remarks that I very much agree with, in relation to what we should be looking at. I'd like to go back without abusing Mr. Peder Hvelplund's confidence in asking whether one could also be instrumental in looking at some of those more individual-oriented paragraphs, i.e. more specifically what is about hospitalization, isolation and treatment, and whether one could look at whether it should also in one way or another be subject to parliamentary control. Because as I read it, that is not the case in the draft now. Well, sir, that's what I'm gonna need. Peder Hvelplund didn't answer if he can't now, but it's just if you could get some indication whether it could also be something that Enhedslisten could help to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119204004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119204006	Well, it certainly is. And I'd also like to sign for mr. Martin Geertsen's nice words, although I do not quite know when it is expressed that way, whether I should take it as a hoax or some kind of acknowledgment I now choose the latter. But I fully agree that this is one of the things we need to look at, and that is precisely the balance between protecting the rights of the individual on the one hand and ensuring that society and the spread of infection on the other. There I think it is quite obvious to look at precisely the restrictions that lie in relation to the coercive measures that are in relation to the individual, i.e. that it is also some of the things we are looking at and whether it is something that could possibly be moved under something so that there is also parliamentary control in relation to it. I am also thinking, in relation to paragraph 24, of restricting larger assemblies, i.e. the ceiling for the assembly, that it may also be some of the things we need to look at, i.e. whether it needs to be adjusted. But let us look at this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119204105	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. After despriting, it's sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119204135	Thank you for that, President. After all, we need to deal quickly with the proposal for a new epidemic law, as the current epidemic law, also called the emergency law, expires at the end of February. We were on unknown ground when we returned in March to give the government extended powers. We didn't know much about covid-19, but we knew we had to react. That is why all the parties in the Folketing gave these extended powers to the government. But we also made it clear at the time that there was to be a sunset clause, that is to say that the law was to cease automatically, and that is when we are approaching now. And I am pleased about that, because frankly, I do not believe that the government has managed the powers we gave it well enough. At times the Folketing has been so poorly involved in government decisions that it has created democratic challenges. Because nowhere is it written that the government should merely inform the Folketing and the public when far-reaching decisions were taken by the government. I do not suspect the Minister for Health and the Elderly so much of wanting to run a solo race around the Danish Parliament; the Minister for Health and the elderly is too kind and welcoming to that, and I also have a good working relationship with the Minister on a daily basis. But it is certainly my impression that in particular the Prime Minister has enjoyed fluctuating the tact and just telling the parties of the Folketing what she and the government have decided. There are many examples where the most well-known and directly illegal is the killing of all the mink in the country. Here, the power was so great that one looked very much at whether the legislation was in place. When the government became aware that the army, the police and the FDA had been sent into the field without any legal basis whatsoever, the Prime Minister failed to stop the illegal activities. Fortunately, this matter is being dealt with, and it must first be unveiled in the Commission with a judge at the end of the table. In relation to this bill we are discussing today, we reached a political agreement in December, in which I am particularly pleased that we have cleared out the forced parts. At the same time, it is also particularly gratifying that we are now getting clear into the law that there must be both professionalism and democratic support for, in some cases, far-reaching decisions that the current government may need to take at any time. Does that mean we've covered all the holes in the epidemic law? No, it probably doesn't. That is why I am also looking forward to delving into each and every one of the consultation responses that we have received and which we received last night. That work is about to begin, and I look forward to it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119204430	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And after despriting, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119204500	We might as well get the prune on the counter. The new epidemic law is far too far-reaching, and it contains an attack on the population, and then it lets the business community sail their own lake. It comes after a year in which we can clearly see that, as a Parliament and a society, we must be very careful to give a great deal of power to a government and individuals in it. We should have learned from those mistakes and drawn up a law based on that knowledge, but the proposed bill as it stands shows that it has not, and that is why we are of course voting 'no' in New Citizens. I would like to strike down a few points of the law if speaking time allows me to highlight our opposition to these unnecessary abuses against citizens and the total lack of accountability to business. That is, for example, the case. The Minister for Health and the Elderly may lay down rules whereby persons who have been in a particular place participate in an assembly, at an event, event or similar event where an infection of a generally dangerous or social-critical disease has been detected shall be examined by a health care professional or isolated in an appropriate facility. Behind these words of the law, it says that with this law in hand you will be able to demand that all persons, for example: has been to a football match, will have to self-insulate or may be announced fines. It can also be people in a store. It can also affect a company which can therefore be forced to shut down and send all people home with fatal economic consequences. Furthermore, there is no definition whatsoever in the concept of plurality, and I have not heard anyone today who has been able to come closer to what plurality actually means. Is that two, is that three, is that four? How many people is that? In addition, we have a large aversion to what is in §49. 5 where the Minister for Health and the Elderly may lay down rules on the information obligations of natural and legal persons in addition to the information obligations laid down in paragraph 5. 1-3. Behind these words of the law it is stated that the Minister of Health is empowered to require individuals and companies to provide personal information about their own conduct, but not only about it, but also to indicate who they have been with. So companies must inform about the behaviour of customers or users. It is a very violent act against personal freedom to give the Minister for Health those powers. As a third point, I cannot actually mention the paragraph with which we are dissatisfied, because it is not there at all. But the previous paragraph was called Paragraph 27 and it has been withdrawn. Why is it so important? Yes, it is because it is, after all, the paragraph that ensured that the business community was shielded from those in power who have no understanding of how society is actually financed and only sees business as an inexhaustible money tree. In fact, for the business community, legal claims were made on compensation. It became clear when corona hit last spring, but this right was removed and I warned against doing so. I urged the Danish Parliament to make no hasty decisions on this, but it would not listen, and since then there has been a patchwork of aid packages and other things which clearly show that the Danish Parliament made a huge mistake there. Yeah, some still haven't gotten their money yet. I cannot help but imagine what it would have looked like if it were public servants who had not been paid for several months. Yes, if we in this Parliament had not received our remuneration, wouldn't things have looked different? But in the new epidemic law, this protection of business has been taken completely away. Then you want to set up a committee or a commission, but if I have to translate for the citizens out there from christiansborg to Danish, it means you put it in a jar and hope that it goes away by itself. But it does not, and I can tell the business community out there that they have made a friend in the Danish Parliament in New Citizens, and we are the guarantee that we will not let this matter go, and we will continue to fight for the rights of business. Finally, we have the question of democratic anchoring, which should be better at first sight. I am one of those who would also like to recognise that there are improvements in it, and I also think it is appropriate to recognise that the current Minister for Health has himself acknowledged and said that in the interim law there were some things that were not appropriate, and I think it should also be recognised when you have the self-insight about it. If you are still worried about us in New Citizens, it is because we do not believe that there is proper minority protection in the new anchoring that you are making. In the past, a large number of cases have had to go down to the Parliamentary Chamber, where there is minority protection in our parliamentary structure. This is no longer the case when it comes to a committee. There, the simple majority, which will usually consist of the government and its supporting parties, will be able to impose everything they want there, and we find that worrying. We cannot prevent Parliament's parties from making mistakes again. Some mistakes were made in March. We cannot prevent them from being made again, but we can refrain from voting in favour, and we do not do so this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205017	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205021	I belong to those who would like to congratulate Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Now, I know you can't quote from internal meetings, but I don't think I'll surprise anyone by saying that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, at our Corona follow-up meetings, raises critical questions, and I am, of course, a long way along the way, very much in agreement with many of the assumptions behind Mr Boje Mathiesen's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen's question. Now, Mr. Knox... Lars Boje Mathiesen, like taking the citizens with him when he communicates, can Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen then explain if you are very unhappy with everything that has been going on since March and there is good reason to be very unhappy with all sorts of things then how it can be that we have not seen a single motion for a resolution from Mr Boje Mathiesen. Lars Boje Mathiesen's party down here in the Assembly Hall, where a restriction was sought to be abolished? For that is the possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205118	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205118-2	It is certainly not everything that has happened that we have been critical of. I think a statement has been made which shows that we have been involved in seven out of the ten major agreements made in September. So with regard to the notion that we have just protested everywhere, I would say that we have actually been sitting at the negotiating table. And one of the reasons why no resolution has been tabled on precisely that is, in fact, that we have been made in a number of agreements that we think are sensible, and we have of course honoured the agreements we are part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205150	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205151	I'm in complete agreement with Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen, if he indicates here I also said it myself in my rapporteur's speech that this is a horror cabinet of various restrictions that can be imposed on the population during an epidemic crisis. But Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen rule out the need for some of these restrictions during an epidemic crisis? That is my one question. My second question is this: are there some of the restrictions that have been imposed in recent months, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has been unhappy with, and if that is the case, why has a motion for a resolution not been tabled down here in the Chamber to get rid of them? Because that's the way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205226	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205227	With regard to some of the restrictions that were imposed when we were sitting and negotiating in August, we did not think it was right to place those restrictions on business and, if I do not remember very badly, we did indeed table an amendment. But maybe my memory is letting me down. I can't say that. With regard to the question of whether restrictions may be needed, I will say yes, and we also believe that there should be an epidemic law. We will not say that it should just be completely anarchistic and that there should not be an epidemic law. We do not believe that the person who has been made here is good enough because it has been rushed through, so we received 80 hearings today, which I have not read through. So I am very concerned that we are chasing through something that has not been worked on well enough, and that, for example. I am very, very concerned about the lack of protection of business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205310	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. Would you mind sprinkling? Lars Boje Mathiesen Hey, yeah. Then I have to be careful to say that the boyfriend at home does, or I'll just get in trouble). Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205337	First of all, I must make one important point: we are standing here today debating this draft epidemic law because the Danish Parliament has forced the government to throw its old proposal from the autumn into the garbage can. We have not forgotten that it was the Government's wish that the Minister for Health, for example, should be present. could almost crown himself as a coronac emperor at will. We have not forgotten it, because this was entirely in line with the government's sense of power, which it has already demonstrated throughout the Corona crisis. The system of regional epidemic commissions is not useful in a situation where you face an unknown threat and need to be able to act quickly. It is precisely in this situation that we need known rules and procedures so that decisions are not arbitrariness. However, the title of 2020 has been arbitrary. Arbitrary with closures of entire industries, of Copenhagen's tourism and of the courts. Arbitrary exercise of power, as shown by the Minkskan Valley in all its power and power. And arbitrariness with critical and crucial information on which the government sits like an obscene hen on its eggs, supposedly even to itself when making unconstitutional decisions. It has to end, and it gets it with the new epidemic law. Because of the clear shortcomings of the old Code of Epidemics, the Folketing placed almost unlimited powers with the government. That power has been used by the government to make many necessary and quick decisions. The government may feel that the opposition is making too little of this. But when the opposition has spent more effort on the errors of the government, it is because they are many and quite significant. There is a totally inadequate response to infection detection. One can mention the rule that tourists had to book six nights before they could come to Denmark, which lacked health reasons. It should also be mentioned that the government's unsightly mix-up of health authorities' recommendations and policies. And, of course, mention should be made of the government's unconstitutional closure of the mink industry. All these many mistakes call for a set of rules to be put in place again so that the government cannot continue its solo tragedy, and we are very pleased that the epidemic law now contains strong parliamentary control. We note that the bill is miles away from what the government itself thought the law should look like. In the original proposal, the government itself could declare a disease socially critical and thus trigger a wide range of powers for itself. We are very pleased that the government has failed with that project. For the lesson of this crisis should be that we do not need to relax parliamentary control when it comes to making quick decisions. We have seen the result of relaxing parliamentary control last year, and that will not happen again. Several experts criticise the fact that the Danish Health Authority has been written out of the law because they fear that it will weaken the health professional advice. I have very little sympathy for that criticism. Governments are subject to the decisions of ministers. If you have any doubt that this is also the case with the Danish Health Service, you have followed very badly. It is less than a year ago that the director of the National Health Service advised against closing the country's primary schools, after which seven hours later he stood at a press conference which was about closing the public schools. The Prime Minister even indicated at the time that it was the recommendation of the health authorities. So much for independent health care. The choice in the epidemic law is not between health care or political control over government decisions. The choice is between political control or no control. And even though the government prefers the absence of control, fortunately this is not the way it has ended up. This does not mean that we need to listen less to the health authorities. Perhaps the adoption of the legislative proposal means that we will actually follow the recommendations of the authorities more closely. Many have criticised the new law because it is possible to take very far-reaching measures under the law. I understand the concern, but the law must be able to deal with extreme situations, including situations that are even worse than corona. The next time the crisis strikes, we should not be as unprepared as this time. We have seen the true face of Mette Frederiksen's corona revelation. There is no alternative to an epidemic law with a strong anchoring in the Folketing, even if the government initially tried to sneak one through it. It is today that we are taking back democracy from Mette Frederiksen and her government, and we are preventing future governments from doing what she has done. In the Liberal Alliance, therefore, we see the adoption of a new epidemic law as a step forward for democracy, and we look forward to voting in favour of it. Moreover, we will also be taking part in the discussions that are taking place in the light of the consultation responses that have been received and looking at whether the epidemic law can be made even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205845	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205913	Thank you for the floor. This bill is clearly better than the first proposal that was worked on and the current epidemic law. I would say that I look forward to reading all the answers that have been received. Some of them I have read; I have read among others. read them from the SIND, Alzheimer's Association, the Elders Case and Amnesty International. And in the Free Greens we have some concerns about legal certainty, so we will delve into that more and look at that in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119205943	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Health and the Elders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119210006	Thank you very much for that, President. And thank you to the rapporteurs for some very, very good contributions to this important, exciting debate. Thank you, too, for the broad support for the proposal, but I have also taken note of every response to the consultation response and every announcement of things we need to drill out more, and of course I am making myself and my system available for that. This is a comprehensive law, and there's plenty of attention around it. Now we sit here in an almost empty Parliamentary Hall on a late evening.That's how it is sometimes in the Parliamentary Parliament.But what we decide, and which we start by deciding today, is of great importance to our handling of the Coronapandemic from 1 March, when the law will have to come into force and replace the previous, but also for future Parliament, for future governments, which we have to ensure are not as low as we were in this Parliament these days in March 2020. I would therefore also like to thank the parties involved in the vote agreement, but I would like to thank all the parties for having participated in the political follow-up group which we had to invent here in the Folketing in a back room or in a room behind these debates on these urgent laws. We have had many, many meetings in those groups with a great deal of commitment and great participation, not always to everyone's satisfaction, I agree, but there has been a great deal of participation throughout the period. I think it suits the Danish Parliament to go in and take co-responsibility from each one of its political positions and help to bore out, ask questions and get answers in this situation. I would like not only to thank the parties, but also to thank Justitia, the Institute for Human Rights and the Lawyers' Society, which has, of course, helped us to have a clearly improved bill, with their participation in two meetings with the parties of the Danish Parliament, where they set out their views in principle in relation to some very, very important principles of legal certainty, which are at stake here. Of course, I would also like to thank our governments who, from the health perspective, have made us more aware of what is needed when dealing with the current epidemic and future health crises. We can only predict that something will certainly come, but what it will be is impossible to say anything about at this stage. So it has to be a law that can stand the distance in the years to come. As I said, this applies not only to covid-19, but also to future epidemics. It is our opinion that most of the measures that it is possible to take under the current epidemic law have proved to be important tools. And if you look at the current closure of society that we are living under now in Denmark, I will not hide that from us with the restrictions that exist with the limits of how many people must be together in the public who are; and where we have shut down large parts of cultural and business life, schools, education; and where there are many, many restrictions on traffic and elsewhere, it shows precisely that the tools are in operation right now as we stand here. These elements are in operation now, and it couldn't be done to have them in operation if we hadn't made the emergency law. I fully agree, and I fully agree, that this law is also to prevent new people from having to stand in a place where a health crisis strikes and in very few hours you have to try to make something stick together; it is to avoid it. But I do not agree with that if you say that everything that was done back in March was a mistake. I think it is quite clear when you look at what it is like in Denmark right now. ■ the figures we have reported out today, and the infection we have that yes, there is a mutation that is moving and that we should be concerned about, but that the great epidemic control that we have in Denmark; the great degree to which we have once again had the infection knocked down, that is, according to the figures that we can see now, is precisely how effective the tools are and how imperative it is to have the tools in the toolbox that the epidemic law contains. That is why some of them have also been proposed to continue, but changed in important areas. I come back to how we are changing in essential areas in relation to their entry into service. But that it may be necessary in the future, during a similar health crisis, to make use of it here, just as it may be necessary to continue with it after 1 March, in whole or in part, I think it is quite obvious. First, there are individual measures. Several rapporteurs have asked questions about these. That is, for example, the case. orders to persons to be examined, hospitalized, isolated and treated. Moreover, these are measures which, even before the emergency law of spring, it was actually possible to implement in our original epidemic law. So we are also proposing to continue with these rules. This also applies to the possibility for health authorities to obtain information from citizens, businesses and other authorities which is essential for effective detection of the disease. However, the draft law also ensures that no more information can be gathered than is necessary. The desire to limit the possibility of resorting to coercion has been expressed by several rapporteurs from this Parliament's platform. It is true that both the original epidemic law and the emergency laws provided for the possibility of forced vaccination. This is not something that has been happening during the current epidemic. There has not been one health politician, one political party and, of course, neither the government nor any health experts I have seen, nor any agencies that have said that forced vaccination would be relevant during corona. On the contrary, everyone has said the opposite: it is not relevant. Nevertheless, it has to be said that much of the loudest opposition to the epidemic law and to the corona management has been due to fear of forced vaccinations, and that has been the great ghost of the debate. That is why I think it is right that we should look each other in the eye and say that for the first time in many decades we write it out of the Danish epidemic management including future epidemic management, because we believe and are convinced that we can go further with information, with openness and voluntaryness in relation to vaccination. We can see that the Danish vaccination programmes, which are based on voluntaryness, are far better off than the programmes in the countries that have based them on coercion. This does not mean that there is no coercion in the law, because there is a possibility of coercion in the law. I am fully aware that it is there, but there is, and I will be on target for that, also the need for coercion against individuals, so that action can be taken against people who cannot, or may not, want to, but our experience from corona is, of course, primarily that they cannot understand the seriousness of an epidemic. There have been very few cases, but there have also been cases during this epidemic where there has been a need to apply coercion to individual citizens in very specific situations. It's not politically determined. Well, the rules are of course politically determined... they are the ones we are talking about here... but the actual coinage of them lies in our governments. Of course, it is quite clear here that we must ensure the legal certainty of our citizens. This proposal actually strengthens the legal certainty of citizens in relation to individual coercion. Automatic judicial review of measures taken against individuals having the character of deprivation of liberty, for example: the requirement of isolation. It will also be easier for the citizen to complain. We propose to allow individual actions to be brought against a new Board of Appeal. This applies, for example, if a citizen has been ordered by a board to be tested. Also, the current possibilities for establishing broad and more social intervention measures have been effective tools for managing the infection. There is no doubt about that. This is among other things. What we have with the banning of larger assemblies, with the exception of political manifestations, which we have just seen an example of today at the Palace Square, that is clear. So there are various kinds of restrictions, and we propose that these be continued, but there are significant differences. In fact, the new epidemic law introduces more parliamentary control, openness and legal certainty. It is a clear wish of all the parties of the Folketing, I think, that this must change so that we change what we invented. And it shows a little about the situation... it's not just something you say... that we paved while we were driving. In fact, we invented whether it was during the first or second reading of the draft law, I do not remember very well in the context of a consultation and another urgent procedure the political follow-up group. It is then replaced by a setup with a committee here in the Folketing. This means that a demand is being made for a prior presentation to this parliamentary committee. It is I who must do it right now, but the next time there is a health crisis, it is someone else, and it may be someone from another party, and then it may be me or my successors who are in opposition, that is the way it is, and so it must be in a democracy. At that time, the minister responsible must go to the parliamentary committee and present the measures, and then make sure that there is no majority in the parliamentary committee against these measures. I have to say that in exceptional cases it may be of an urgent nature, and that is why it will have to be submitted to the parliamentary committee afterwards and within 1-2 days of the issue. In addition, we propose to strengthen the composition of a new National Epidemic Commission. In addition to the Board of Health, the Board for Patient Safety, the Statens Serum Institute and the National Police, the Epidemic Commission will consist of representatives from the Ministry of Business, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and the Elders, and also KL and Danske Regions will have to appoint a member. However, the Commission may also invite other authorities and organisations and experts to attend meetings when needed. This means that not only the professional but also the economic and social basis for decision-making will be strengthened. And it will play a key role in parliamentary control. We propose that the Epidemic Commission make a recommendation, either at the request of the current minister or of its own motion, on which the parliamentary committee must be informed and then decide. This recommendation shall also be made public. It has been another subject of discussion that there has not been enough transparency. Here the recommendation will be published. It has been clearly in demand. As has also been agreed in the vote agreement, the recommendation of the Epidemic Commission should not be binding. In the end, it must be a Parliament that is responsible for the policy being pursued here in Denmark. That is why the government can, subject to a majority of the parliament, oppose it, because the majority of the parliament is, in the end, also here those who will be able to set up the stop signal • issue rules even if they are not set by the Commission. It will then be submitted to the parliamentary committee, and a majority of the people must not oppose this. This means that decisions, which are therefore political, can also be held politically responsible for the decisions of the electorate and the people. In addition, as a second element of ongoing parliamentary scrutiny, we propose that all notices covered by this control should be provided with a sunset clause and, as a rule, only apply for four weeks at a time. So there is parliamentary control, transparency and greater legal certainty. To conclude my speech here, I would like to quote from a health politician other than myself, one from another party, and that is the radical health rapporteur, who described in a chronicle in Jutland-Posten what we are sitting with here, and he compared it here to a house insurance: it is really good to have, it must be full without hidden costs, and hopefully it should just stay in the drawer but if the accident is out, it is absolutely necessary to find out. ▪ The accident was out in Denmark in March. We opened the drawer and found it and found that it was not adequate at all. It wasn't useful at all, so we had to do something new. The aim today is that the next time you pull out the drawer, you will find an epidemic law that is workable, which includes better parliamentary control, better transparency, better legal certainty and better opportunities than those we had before March, to manage, rein in and tackle a health crisis, which is an epidemic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211442	There are brief comments. First, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211447	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the Minister that this is much better legislation than that which has been. But we have also had to push a lot to get this far. What I want to ask is the announcement and the many other announcements that are coming to. For what people are now responding to is the announcement that came last week is the Order no. 36, which is about isolation and forced treatment. What's the reason it came last week? When's it gonna run out? And why are we not being informed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211527	Thanks for getting that question. I understand that a few other rapporteurs have also been asked about the specific announcement. It is an announcement which deals only with what we discussed with the political follow-up group recently, namely the strengthening of the detection of infection, in which we have looked at the recommendations of experts and the success of other countries. And the success of some of the other countries and the opinion of the experts is that the municipalities must play a much greater role in contacting the infected in the detection work. This is something you do in Norway, for example. I know that there is something about coercion and so on, but there is nothing new about it at all in relation to the detection of the infection. The news in the two announcements which appeared in, I think it was the end of last week, was that the municipalities only get an opportunity to know who is infected, so you can contact them and refer them to, among other things. an isolation hotel or other form of help to keep them isolated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211630	Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211632	But what is the reason why we are not informed that there will be an announcement so that we can just explain it to the citizens if that is actually the case? But, you know, we need to ask some more detailed questions, because I think that once again it is merely an expression of willfulness on the part of the government. We have talked about how we can do better, but nobody has said to us: we are making an announcement, it comes out the week it deals with this, and now you will see what it means. So what's the reason you don't do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211657	Well, I'll take that for myself. I think hundreds have been issued if not even more announcements during this epidemic, and I am quite sure that our hard-working and skilled officials have estimated that when we have discussed the infection detection element with the follow-up group and have just told us that there is a strengthening of the local element, that is what they meant. But I take it to heart, and we provide a written answer with a deepening of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211733	Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211736	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech, not least the quote. I'd like to ask you something. The Minister said something very wise, I think, about coercion and that it is always better to do with volunteering and get people to do something of their own accord. I very much agree with that. So I would like to know if the Minister has considered this section 28 that we have discussed sometimes. What difference will there really be in relation to this being a command, if you can't go to people anyway, if you don't know who, for example. Been to a demonstration? What, then, is the practical effect of encouraging those who have been present to be tested, for example, into isolation? Will it have any practical meaning? Could you perhaps even imagine that it could be more positive because people take it better down when it is actually just a call and a recommendation rather than a injunction with some kind of sanction that you cannot impose on them anyway, because you have no idea who they are?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211824	Well, that debate is very interesting. I think that one of the lessons I have learned from this pandemic is that the population and, as such, also companies and organisations and voluntary organizations and other things have happened so many times • it says: come now with concrete rules; good advice, etc. Is fine and good, we can get that, but how many do we have to be? Where are we going? What are we gonna do? Specifically, we have now opened all test centres here, and you can be tested throughout Denmark, but we are fighting to get people in to be tested. This is a concrete example, and my experience is that there is a great desire ■ I am sure of the people to comply with the rules, but if that is a rule, then you do. If that's just advice, yeah, it's a little more up to your own choice. And here's the proposal to do it as a rule and say that this has to be done if you want to comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211931	Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119211932	Thank you. Yes, I do not know how best to get the message through, whether an invitation is better than an injunction. It's gonna turn out. Something else that makes me not so much concerned about this whole law is, as the Minister also said, that it is not about the current government, but that it is about all future governments and therefore also a situation in which the minister does not have the role he now has. Then there is the Epidemic Commission: how does the Minister intend to put it together, or rather, who is to sit at the top of the epidemic commission, which I think is quite sensible to set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212009	To the end of the table? That's a good question. Actually, I haven't really considered how. Today, of course, we have the composition of having what is called the task force, which is also something that has been invented for the occasion. Because there were the old, outdated epidemic commissions that did not really prove to be good enough or had the right setup, and I am not there as a politician, and the proposal here is that there are no politicians and that it is a civil servant room. So I guess it's more practical with the table end and who it is, I'd like to see. Let's think about whether that matters at all. But if it does, let us at last discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212048	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212050	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. I think it should all go together in order to get the ends that had to be achieved together before we get to the third reading. But as the Minister knows as an experienced politician, the devil is in the detail. As I read the bill here, and the minister says a lot of right and good things about the parliamentary control, the very individual-minded paragraphs that go from section 14 up to about section 18, that is, what is about hospitalization, isolation and treatment, are not subject to parliamentary control in that sense. So could the Minister imagine that, in order to activate those paragraphs in an epidemic situation, they were also subject to either the recommendation of the Epidemia Commission or parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212153	I have noted that this is an issue which the rapporteur of the Left has raised in the debate here, and let us try to delve into it together in the work on this. If we have said that this should not be presented to the forthcoming parliamentary committee, it is because the committee is a legislative body, where this would be an act of executive power. It is not a minister, it is a board that makes an assessment. Specifically, as far as I can remember at the moment, we have had five or six cases where the board has made some individual-oriented interventions, and there you should not ask. And I think it would be quite wrong to ask the Folketing in such a situation. It is often a matter of urgency, and it is confidential who it is, and it is typically a case of people who have a mental illness or otherwise find it harder to understand the extent of their illness and infectious disease, and I do not think that the Folketing should take a position on this particular matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212305	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212305-2	There may be many other things that we also need to tackle, but now I just grabbed hold of this because the Minister himself said it about parliamentary control. Nor do I think that every time there is a case you have to go through it. I assume, however, that this will run as in all sorts of other areas, namely that there will be an authorisation for someone to do something, and that is the authorisation for someone to do something; I think it would be possible to consider whether it should not be subject to parliamentary control, whether it is an individual or a multitude of individuals. For paragraph 28, as I remember, is at least subject to parliamentary control, but these are not, which I am a little surprised about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212349	We fully agree with the principle of where the separation is. It can be said that when a disease is judged to have social consequences and to be a social-critical disease, that is the whole point of departure for the committee to be set up. Let us see if we can get closer to that in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212424	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212427	I think the Minister may be drawing a slightly rosy picture of the forced vaccination. If we go back a little while, I recall that the government, which consists of one party, the Social Democratic Party, presented a proposal for a new epidemic law, which contained forced vaccination, and that there was massive opposition in the rest of the Folketing to it. So can the Minister not just confirm that a draft of a new government epidemic law containing forced vaccination was presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212502	Yes, I can confirm that, and that is why the earlier epidemic law and the earlier one and the previous ones before the emergency laws also had the possibility of forced vaccination. It hasn't been in use in Denmark since, I think it was just in the early 1970s, when the smallpox vaccine, which was of course compulsory, where you were fined for not allowing your children to cook vaccines, was abolished, because smallpox was eradicated thanks to a fantastic vaccination work throughout the world and, of course, also in Denmark. It was then dropped to activate, but it has been a passive option. The advice to us when we presented our first draft of that bill was that the passive option could be wise to have again if there were to be a terrorist attack with smallpox or something else. But we have now come to the point that it is wise to get it out of the law completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212606	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212607	All right, I assume that this is presented in a legislative proposal that we would like to see implemented. I find the argument that it has been contained in earlier epidemic laws interesting, because if it is the argument and the premise that it should also be included in the new one, then I would like to draw attention to section 27, which is the right of business to compensation. It was in the previous law, but it is not in the other one, and there was an insurance policy: the industry had an assurance that they would get compensation, but when they needed their insurance, that insurance was removed from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212639	It is, I believe, totally wrong to make that comparison. All the time that the previous law is now back to the epidemic law, so it's a storywriting we are doing here, but it's also important enough that it didn't have the big bouquet of stakes and opportunities, so of course it was also a completely different situation with regard to business, and we have proposed this addressed by a committee to look at how to make a compensation model forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212712	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212714	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would also like to start by signing off on the cooperation that has been going on around the epidemic law here, where I also think there has been a great deal of sensitivity from the Minister in relation to the demands we have made. I would like to ask you one element, because now the Minister himself used the excellent example that Stinus Lindgreen had used, namely that of house insurance, which is down in the drawer, and which is quite right when you take it out and look at it, does not quite live up to what you really expected, and what you really thought there should be in that insurance. And the same may be true of the new epidemic law that we are now adopting, because the intention is that it should last for decades and be able to deal with the epidemics and crisis situations that may arise. That is why I just want to hear from the Minister whether it would not be a good idea to take it up every five years, to have it looked at, and to have it reviewed and revised so that we could look at: Does it live up to what society looks like today, what kind of disease we see, and what kind of threats could we face? It didn't have to be in order for it to be completely changed, but because at least you had a look at whether it was up-to-date.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212820-2	Thank you for that question. I think it is relevant to ensure that it does not come at the end of the pile in the bottom drawer and gather dust so that we do not maintain this law forward-looking. So I am not going to tie myself up on how to do it on a stand-by basis because we have some lawyers who have been working around the clock for a whole year now, and I almost dare not tell them, so not to see them squirting out, so you can only see their soles if I promise something now. And it would certainly not be worth bearing if something were to happen in relation to technological developments or health developments, globalisation. There are, after all, things today that have been adopted and completely obvious, which had not been considered decades ago when the old epidemic law was made. And, of course, things can happen in society in the future, which we cannot foresee at all: travel patterns, disease patterns, prevention opportunities, medical opportunities, vaccine development and therefore it is relevant to look at it. How and how it is to be cut, we must return to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212927	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119212928	But when you think about what we've offered them so far and that they're still sitting here, I figured it might be worth taking the chance and trying again. But when I ask, of course, it is also because I think it is absolutely crucial that we do not have a 12 March again, where we are going to act so quickly and take such far-reaching decisions that there is our security, as is the fact that our epidemic legislation is constantly updated. So my best bet is that we do it by revising it every five years, if possible. If there are other options we can look at so that we can ensure that, I think we should also be open to it. But I think it is necessary to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119213007	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119213007-2	Yes, and I'd like to shake hands on that at a distance here from the platform, so we're trying to figure out how to do it. You have to be able to come up with quite a variety of good models for how we can ensure that we pick up knowledge on an ongoing basis. What I would be nervous about is a large revision clause, but that is not what I hear the rapporteur referring to ten; it is more to make a setup that ensures that this law is not only today the best epidemic law we can get but also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119213043	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119213057	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 20 January 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
