ParlaMint-DK_20211203100011	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following motions for resolutions: motion for a resolution on the protection of climate refugees. 44) Does anyone wish to accept this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203100041	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203100058	Thank you, Mr President, and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement to the Folketing. It is always nice to be able to start your Friday with a discussion about European cooperation and Denmark's role in it. This is important, and it has been for many years, but I also believe that at the moment there are a great many things that emphasise that it is, if possible, even more important now than it has been in the past. It is clear that the Coronapandemic has filled a great deal in EU cooperation over the past year. Covid-19 is, of course, a common and cross-border challenge, and the European Union has also been a central arena for Denmark and the other Member States. We have worked together, coordinated and helped each other through the pandemic. First, it was a question of ensuring the supply routes for joint purchases, medicines and protective equipment. Then there was the purchase and roll-out of vaccines, and with the implementation of the European coronapa, it can be said that we have also helped to help European citizens return to some form of normality, just as it has been extremely important, in my view, that we have also been united around what we might call the economic restart, the recovery of the economy. I think it is worth noting that the successful economic policy that we have conducted at home with a broad majority in the Folketing, where we are getting the economy kicked off, has in fact also been part of what has been copied at EU level. Fortunately, therefore, there is also much to suggest that we can restore the European economies more quickly than we would otherwise have been able to do. But it is clear that with the recent return of the pandemic and the recent shutdowns and such things, it is probably too early to conclude on it. In relation to the climate crisis, it is clear that this is, by its very nature, a cross-border problem. I am pleased that the pressure exerted by Denmark and other countries has succeeded in raising the climate ambitions of the European Union. It is no secret that we would have liked to have gone further, but it is clear that if we really have to do something about the climate and move on to this agenda, the European Union is instrumental. This is extremely important for us, and it is also clear that for a small country like Denmark, which wants to take the lead and push forward, and which is also one of the countries that has businesses that can deliver green solutions, there is a clear interest in the EU taking the lead in climate change to save the climate, but we also have a business policy interest in creating jobs in ensuring that the EU's ambitions are as high as possible. For a great many of the things that are then demanded will be Danish solutions and products. Then I would like to mention another area which I think is becoming more and more important, and fortunately for that, because we are increasingly under pressure in that area. It is the whole question of the digital issue of the tech giants, and this is, after all, a question of what has also been proposed by the European Union now, i.e. what is called the Digital Services Act, how to ensure that we are not flooded on the digital platforms by products from elsewhere in the world that do not meet the consumer protection requirements, the standards and safety and health requirements that we have in Europe. But it is also about how we are taming the tech giants who, in total, have had too long and too much freedom to do business on something that in reality also undermines our democracies. This is when the algorithms cause hatred or conflict or polarisation to be incited. That is when there are difficulties in getting the biggest tech giants to pay taxes. All these things, of course, can and must be discussed and regulated in Denmark, but it is clear that the effective response to regulation of cross-border tech giants is, of course, also a cross-border regulation and cross-border cooperation. Something else which, by its very nature, is cross-border and, unfortunately, also very topical, is the whole issue of irregular migration, and the fact that we see not only the flow of refugees, as has been seen for many years as a result of wars and conflicts around us, but also, in reality, refugees who are being used as tools by despots and dictators in various neighbouring countries of the European Union to try to push the European Union and make a hard effort to destabilise Europe. By its very nature, we need to protect our borders, but we also need to recognise that this is both, and above all, a tragedy, for the people affected, but also a declaration of failure of the asylum system we have. That is why, on the part of the Social Democrats and the government, we are working very hard to try to dismantle some of the mechanisms that allow the traffickers to make money out of it and that different regimes around us can use it as a push-ball to destabilise the European Union, because asylum treatment and the system that we have built up are not connected and where we would be able to get much longer both for the migrants and the refugees it is about, but of course also for the money we spend on it, if we were better at helping in the vicinity, if we had asylum treatment elsewhere, if we secured proper conditions closer to where people are fleeing. Now I have mentioned some areas where it is quite obvious that we need to work together, and I think that is important, but I also think that in a debate on all the good things from the sea and from the European Union, we also have to say some of the things that concern us a little, among other things. The debate about the European Union's social pillar, or perhaps what it is used for by some players, because there is no doubt that, with social democratic spectacles, we also, of course, want to see social protection lifted throughout Europe. We want workers to be taken up. In concrete terms, we want all employees in the European Union, of course, to receive a wage on which they can live, but it is not the same as the fact that all the problems we face in the labour market or in the social area must be solved through EU regulations. The proposal for a minimum wage directive proposed by the European Commission and with which we can understand the sympathetic intention, we are very critical and say 'no', because we fear that it undermines the Danish model and the negotiated model that we have in Denmark, where it is the social partners who set the salary, and not something we discuss politically. Moreover, we also fear, on behalf of those whom this is also about, some of the workers in the European Union who receive the worst wages, that it will not be an effective tool. I think it is a little paradoxical that you look at some of the countries in Scandinavia that have effective welfare models and labour market models and say: we see that they have given wages that you can live on; they have provided orderly working conditions. And the solution then proposed ends up undermining the models that have been most successful in picking up and securing those salaries. Finally, there is one final question in which we are in dispute, not with ourselves within Denmark, but with some of our colleagues in the European Union. It is about the issue of fundamental values, the rule of law mechanism and the very basic rules of the game on which the European Union is founded. There I am pleased that the Danish Government, together with other good allies in the European Union, is setting its feet, that, together with the Commission, it is taking steps, saying clearly from, criticising and not just going to bring the actions of all the governments of the EU countries into line with the basic rules of the game, but of course it is also saying clearly to those minorities that it would have to be sexual minorities in Poland or other Member States that are under pressure and are subject to discrimination and other things: we are on your side; you can count on Denmark to fight for you, for your protection of rights and for your ability to live freely in your own country. And of course we do that in all the forums where we can get to it at all. Well, I'm running out of time, so I just want to finish by saying that I think it's good to have this annual debate. I think there is a great deal we need to work together on. After all, the European Union is a necessary international cooperation, and if we did not, we would have to invent it, because a great many of the problems we have to solve about tax evasion, climate, migration and such things are cross-border problems that require cross-border solutions. But, of course, we must also have the courage to say when it is that we think other comrades and Member States in the club are going the wrong way or that this is happening in areas where we think that the European Commission or other Member States, political parties are drawing it in a political direction that we do not want. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101040	You're welcome. Actually, there's 1⁄2 minutes left. It's rare that it happens, but you don't get it added next time, I'd like to say. There are some comments. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101041	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have, of course, also read the statement and have taken note of the blossomed talk about how fantastic everything is going in Brussels. Perhaps we can do so because there are some things that are left out, and it is good that we can then ask the rapporteur what he is thinking about the maternity directive for which a former minister of equal opportunities wanted to make a reservation, because it is obviously an attack not only on the nation state but also on families. Unfortunately, there are not many words about this in this statement. So it could be that the Socialist rapporteur, now that the Socialist Foreign Minister chooses to remain silent, could tell us a little about how he views the maternity directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101120	We were of the opinion that the European Union should not regulate it in Denmark, and it is, of course, a fair political struggle, so that we think that this is something we can do and that we should regulate at home. It is also clear, of course, that when there is EU regulation, we must also look at the directive and that is what the agreement has been made in the Danish Parliament reflects how we transpose and implement the directive on maternity leave. When there is an EU regulation, of course, we have to, if we may say so, set it up in the way that makes the best sense and is best suited to Danish conditions, and that is what the government and the Social Democrats and, incidentally, a number of other parties in the Folketing have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101202	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101203	I'm glad. Now Social Democracy itself has helped to give the EU power in the field of maternity. In the past, we have had the Ministry of Justice confirm that. It is back in 1972, I think, that the Social Democratic Party recommended it, and I suppose we have also been aware of what we have done. Not only has the European Union been given power blindly, I imagine, and that is why it is natural to ask the rapporteur again, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs is silent, if you will do anything to withdraw that power. One could, for example: say that the next time there is a summit, the Minister for State or Foreign Affairs will ensure that it will be a theme, or you could simply put it to the Folketing and say: "Dear friends, it was a mistake we came to press the wrong button when we gave the EU power in the field of maternity, that is what we have to do about it. What is the rapporteur doing about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101246	I have to admit that I am not fully aware of how much the maternity debate filled in the discussions prior to our accession to the European Union, which were even a few years before I was born, but it is clear that there is always a discussion on what areas we actually believe it is necessary to have common legislation. We are also currently discussing a minimum wage directive in which we have said that we do not in fact believe that we have challenged the EU's right to regulate this area at all. That is why I think it is perfectly legitimate to say that here we think that the European Union is going too far or interfering in something that they should not, or that we disagree with the political solution that exists. This is the case in cooperation, and of course we will also take this in the area of maternity, pay or other areas where, in general terms, we may well say that it makes sense to work together, but where there are specific things that we think the European Union is doing wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101338	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101342	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very fine speech. I understand that the rapporteur has been up early, so I shall be as brief as possible. One thing that has not happened in the European Union but is going to have an impact on the European Union is the situation in Afghanistan, which we have witnessed, especially this summer. It is awful to see how many years of work in a split second collapses under the Taliban. It is too early to say anything about how it develops, but I think that we are going to see a real, really unhappy situation • people who are starving, families who are being driven on the run, and also pressure on Europe's borders. We feel in the SF that we believe that, firstly, increased humanitarian aid and development aid should be ensured to deal with the situation, but also that, secondly, we in Europe will have to take some of the refugees that I believe will come. Does the government agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101448	Thank you. And it's not just because I have trouble sleeping, but it's just because I left Aarhus this morning, and it's a little unstable with DSB still gone, but it's another talk that Anne Valentina Berthelsen also knows about, because the rapporteur is also the rapporteur on transport. After all, I agree with everything that has been said about the unfortunate situation in Afghanistan, and also with the gloomy predictions, as the rapporteur here indicates, that there will also be civilian populations in Afghanistan who will suffer from this, and there will probably also be flows of refugees from Afghanistan that are knocking on our doors. After all, they must be dealt with, just as refugees are dealt with, but I think that the discussion we have in the European Union, which quite rightly focuses on how we can help, how we can provide humanitarian aid, how we can reduce the need to move far, of course fills something, but it is also very much about the internal distribution of the refugees that might come, and I would like there to be a little more gunpowder to ensure how we protect the large majority that does not reach Europe, and a little less gunpowder to discuss how we distribute the relative minority that actually reaches Europe. So that will be my request for the European debate that we should have, and that is also what lies in the proposal we have made for a different asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101619	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101621	I fully agree that if we are to avoid a situation which, at the time, refugees wandered up Danish motorways, we must ensure a much higher standard of living in the camps that are in the neighbourhood, because they were underfunded. That was a problem, and we are not going into it again. At the same time, I think we will also have to take more quota refugees, and we can actually start by doing so within the 500 that we have agreed to take in Denmark. We have only taken 200, and we can easily take some from Afghanistan to fill that quota. Does the government have the courage to do so and does the Social Democratic Party have the courage to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101654	To be honest, I really think it is a little irresponsible to say that we are standing here in the Chamber and saying what it is for some countries that are entitled to receive quota refugees. I really think we should leave that discussion somewhere else. In Yemen, there have been major humanitarian disasters for a number of years, and this is happening in all sorts of places, and it is a little controlled by who is knocking, that is, the ones we are talking about, and sometimes it is a little controlled by where we ourselves have been active, or what we know most about what is most in the Danish media. To be honest, I really think it is very reasonable that it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and the authorities who are making a proposal on which refugees and quota refugees we think we can best take.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101744	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101746	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. There is, however, one concern of the rapporteur, which we do not share in the Radical Left and which is about minimum wages in the European Union. I would like to hear from the rapporteur why he is so concerned, knowing that what we call the Danish model, where the social partners have the opportunity to negotiate on wages, is precisely something that we want not only to protect in the European Union but actually to promote with this directive. One does not want to interfere in the way we do it in Denmark; in fact one wants to promote the model we use in Denmark for negotiating wages in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101826	I agree with Anne Sophie Callesen that this is very often said and that it is like what you hear as the chorus from Brussels: we really think the negotiated model is good. What I find a little worrying is that the model you are proposing, like getting closer to what you think is good, is in fact the opposite in some contexts. One might say: is this the right solution in terms of content? Is that the right answer to the problem with which we actually agree? I do not think it is. In principle, however, we are also worried that this is a move towards individual rights in the labour market, which are not enforced by collective agreements, by virtue of the weapons which, if we may put it that way, we have in the contract-based system, but which we would claim in some way a court or other and which in the Danish system would not play a role. That is, in fact, the concern about that slippery slope, or whatever you might call it. Because it is true that right now we are being told that there is nothing to be afraid of. We're just not safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101939	Here you go again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203101940	I think I have a little need to learn why we are not safe, because what it says is that we can either choose the minimum wage set by law or, in fact, we are calling for it to be the minimum wage negotiated collectively. So I have to ask again, where does this fear come from? And why is it that we do not want to support the fact that we in the European Union are doing something to ensure proper conditions on the labour market for all EU countries, without it becoming an individual right that can be demanded before the Court of Justice, where I therefore agree that this should not be so. But why this concern, since that is not what the proposal says?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102018	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102019	First of all, we would like to be involved in discussing how we can have salaries and how we can ensure a wage that can be lived on in those countries where this is not the case. That is why we need to discuss minimum wages. One can say that minimum wages do not matter if one has zero hour contracts and cannot know how much work there is for one day after. Then it doesn't matter that you get the right hourly wage if you don't get called to work sometimes. So it's not certain that this will solve the problem. I also believe that this is the wrong way to go. We are actually afraid of the individualisation of the right in the sense that a great deal of European regulation is, of course, about the fact that as a citizen one can invoke a right before the European Court of Justice, and that is not how we enforce, it can be said, the differences in the Danish labour market. It lies in some other collective battles: lockouts, strikes, all those things that you know from the Danish labour market. This is what we are really afraid of bypassing and thus undermining the Danish model. We do not want to be involved in this, nor do we want to risk it, even if they say that it is not the intention either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102124	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102127	Thank you. I think that Mr. Jens Joel went a little lightly over the SF rapporteur's question, for it was of course whether the government would be involved in using the 500 quota for which funds have been allocated and not content with a much smaller number. The rapporteur then starts to talk about us not standing in this Chamber deciding what people should do. I fully agree that we should not decide in this Chamber, but then I just lack the answer to the question: will the government help to go up to the 500 for which money is allocated, or does the government think that there is simply a shortage of qualified refugees in the world, so it is completely unnecessary? However, my real question was as follows: does the rapporteur agree that, as Denmark leaves an increasing proportion of the guarding to the external borders of the European Union and equips through Frontex and equips by sending barbed wire and surveillance equipment to different countries, we also assume responsibility for how that border guard is carried out, because it is therefore also our border, which means that we also assume responsibility for how, for example, we do so? human rights are respected in the context of border surveillance. Is Mr. Jens Joel agrees with that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102251	Well, that's right, sir. Søren Søndergaard says that there are elements of common border protection, which are of course funded by the European Union, and it is also true that there has just been a discussion about whether we can really contribute more to helping those countries which, in the case of this case, are extremely in favour of the EU's borders. And there we have said that we think it is logical that the Danish side too should help those countries that are at the border to protect their borders, because that is, in fact, our border. It is clear that the responsibility for complying with the international rules of the game lies, of course, with the authorities that actually enforce the border. And if you send an EU quota or something, there is of course also a responsibility in it. But if so, for example... If the Polish authorities are enforcing the border, then it is also they and the Polish Government who are responsible for complying with the European and or international rules of the game that we have laid down.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102402	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102403	So I have to understand the Socialist position in that we can outsource border controls to some others and that we can send them barbed wire and surveillance equipment, including to Belarus, to which we have sent surveillance equipment, without taking any responsibility, in relation to how it is used on that border. Is that correct? If not, I would just like to hear how the Social Democratic Party has worked to ensure that we had a concrete examination of whether human rights are actually respected in the context of border controls in Poland, to which Denmark has contributed barbed wire.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102441	I really think that it will be a little unnecessarily polemical when you say that we will outsource it. Well, actually, the opposite has happened. The Danish Government has said that we need to assume a greater share of the responsibility for enabling the countries which are extremely close to the border to actually enforce the common border, which is the prerequisite. Moreover, we also have a desire to make it possible to have internal border controls to a greater extent than we do, but that is a slightly different discussion. We do not outsource any responsibility for anything; of course we take part in the task of ensuring that borders are protected. But it is clear that we are assuming and must take account of the fact that the authorities that guard the border are actually doing so within the framework of the rules we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102533	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions. So we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203102556	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for the statement that has been sent. It is, I must say, full of good intentions in relation to EU cooperation and Denmark's role in an active European Union. Unfortunately, the government's role in an active EU does not shine through so clearly to everyday life, where the Prime Minister in particular is busy traveling to, among others. Israel, and it is most similar to that where interests other than those that we have through the European Union are taken care of. Good relations with countries all over the world are also important, but it is also important in relation to the European Union. Let this be my starting line for today's debate on the development of EU cooperation. Today I have been allowed to stand for the contribution of the Left to the debate, because Mr. Kim Valentin is abroad under the auspices of the Council of Europe, and I have looked forward to it. Much has happened since the last debate on the statement, both in the European Union and also on the global stage: threats from outside, withdrawal of the Union, breaches of the rule of law, multiple migration challenges, directives and a great many good trade agreements. The EU has been reduced, the security situation from the east is under pressure, and action by the EU has filled the Danish media. It is often about the places where the European Union is sidestepping, at least in the left's optics; and let me just mention: the Orlov directive, the minimum wage directive and the pay transparency directive; directives that unfortunately do not develop the European Union in the direction we would like to see. Then there was an EU member smaller in the flock at the start of the year. At the end of 2020, the withdrawal agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom entered into force. How's that gonna go? were many of us thinking. Brexit has cost growth, jobs, exports and prosperity. We have seen chaotic scenes from gas stations and supermarkets where fuel and goods have not arrived in time. Factories have lacked employees and supplies to keep production going. Truckmen have lacked drivers to bring ordinary goods like milk and broke out into stores. 1.3 million EU workers, especially from Eastern countries, lost work in Britain on brexit and the pandemic. Earlier this year it was estimated that brexit has cut some GBP 10 billion from Britain's trade with the outside world. This is one of several challenges that the report highlights. Among other things: It should be mentioned: decrease in trade with the EU; higher export and transport costs; shortage of labour; bureaucracy and trouble. Much of what underpins our prosperous and well-functioning society and which we take for granted in everyday life depends on our membership of the European Union. This applies to thousands of jobs, the economy and prosperity. In the Left, we are strong supporters of European cooperation. We welcome the prosperity and opportunities that come out of cooperation. We must take care of that, we must strengthen it, and we must take advantage of it all the time. Vaccines, viruses and protective equipment are other things that have been on the agenda in the European Union. The countries have had to find common solutions to the pandemic's challenges and to the common issues, such as:: Are there adequate protective equipment? Is there going to be a vaccine? What about Schengen? And what about freedom of movement? The report notes at the outset that the EU's efforts in the field of vaccines have resulted in more than 74%. of all adult EU citizens today have completed vaccination, that the management of covid-19 has been one of the EU's main priorities in 2021 and that the Member States and the Commission have worked together hard to strengthen the European vaccine deployment and ensure adequate vaccines. Let's just arrest it. I am not convinced that the Danish Government has worked hard to strengthen European vaccine production. The Prime Minister went to Israel and came back, but what really came of that visit? Vaccines, vaccines, vaccines, wrote the Prime Minister in March on Facebook, her favorite media, of course accompanied by a suitable selfie. The government had not taken the trouble to involve the Folketing and the Foreign Policy Name prior to the trip to Israel. The Israeli trip is unfortunately symptomatic of the current government: once and for all. This is in stark contrast to the EU cooperation that Denmark reaps every day and which, unfortunately, we, with the Socialist Government at the forefront, ignore everyday. However, it is far from enough to celebrate the collaboration in toasts and festive writings. Perhaps the Minister of Foreign Affairs today can help shed light on the results of the Prime Minister's Israel trip. What was the purpose of the trip, and what came out of it? It is not everywhere in the world where you feel as good as here in Denmark. We see this in the continuing migratory flows that are moving towards Europe. We have seen unpleasant scenes with drowned migrants in the English Channel and with unrest on the border between Belarus and Poland. On the left, we are not impressed by the reaction of the European Union. It's just going too slow. We must send a clear signal to Lukashenko, who lets him know that we do not accept that he is sending migrants across the border to push the European Union and that we do not accept under any circumstances that Lukashenko is luring migrants into Belarus with the promise that they can enter Europe. We in the Left welcome the recent decision by the European Union to impose new sanctions on Belarus, but unfortunately we have to note that this is now the fifth of the fifth. It does not seem to frighten the Belarusian President. We must strengthen Poland's borders. We need to keep our noses up and we want to press for the government to follow up on the EU agreement on more border guards for Frontex. We need a plan so that we can act quickly when similar situations arise. We cannot accept that Lukashenko is probably using people as weapons with Putin's blessing. This requires pan-European solutions. This requires the EU countries to shoulder their shared responsibilities and to support the countries that are at the forefront of the EU's external border, both financially and with border guards. The migrant crisis is a European problem which requires European action. The alternative is that our borders break open and we see similar images that we saw back in 2015. We must avoid that for everything in the world. There may be many challenges, but a great deal is also going well thanks to the European Union. The report also shows that the forces are growing in the community; we can do more when we work together; opportunities are growing. Let us focus on that and let us make cooperation even better and stronger in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103323	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103327	Thanks for the speech. In the Danish People's Party we are very concerned about what is going on in Britain. We are actually inspired and want Denmark to leave the EU if it should be called dexit or danexit, or whatever it may be; we will find that out. But it is also exciting to hear how other parties view Britain. I certainly heard that Mrs Heitmann was wearing the skeptical glasses. That is why I would just like to know whether Mrs Heitmann will not confirm that over the summer, according to Bloomberg, the level of co-operation between Britain and the European Union was completely in line with that of pre-brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103410	We on the Left are sorry that Britain chose to leave the European Union. But no matter how you turn it around, I'd like to say to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and no matter what statistics you dive into, it does not change the pictures we have seen in recent months, from Britain, where truck drivers are a deficiency, the goods do not come out, you cannot get petrol for the cars and what else we have had to experience. I think it is sad for Britain, and it has also been very sad from this point of view to follow that trend.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103448-2	It is true that in many parts of the Western world there have been problems with supply chains. We have also seen this in the development of stock prices, and Mrs Heitmann can follow the C25. Many of the companies that need supplies from other parts of the world have suffered from not being able to obtain their raw materials. This is also happening in Britain. And, of course, the new situation also plays a role. What I am just asking Mrs Heitmann to confirm is that over the summer, when there was such a normal state in relation to corona, trade between the EU and Britain was exactly the same according to Bloomberg as it was before brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103524-2	I can confirm that we have seen the biggest fall in the stock market in man's memory here just a few weeks ago. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is quite right in saying that it is pushing not only Britain but also large parts of the world and trade. I can confirm that. But I can also confirm that it has been sad to follow the challenges that have been experienced in Great Britain, where, among other things, we have been faced. have lost people who have moved, mainly from Eastern Europe, as I said. Labour has been lost and has been challenged internally in Britain. It's been sad to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103601	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103603	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. Yesterday, the rapporteur-general of the Left raised a very, very interesting question at the European Committee meeting, and it was through a link from abroad where he is quite right to stay because of the important work of the Council of Europe. The question raised by the rapporteur of the Left was to the Social Democratic Party and was based on a statement by Mrs Mette Frederiksen on the need for a referendum on the banking union, and I think that was a very relevant question. But that then leads me to speak here to hear what is the position of the Left on a referendum on the banking union. Is it the case that the Left too is in favour of a referendum as a prerequisite for Denmark to join the banking union and where the parties can argue as they now think best? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103703	After all, it is extremely difficult to comment on a meeting that I did not attend yesterday, so I would like to be perfectly honest and say to Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, that I was simply answerable, and there I think Søren Søndergaard should take that dialogue with Mr Søndergaard. Kim Valentin, when he gets back from his trip abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103722	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103723	Okay, I'll do that. That was the position of the Left, but I understand that we will then take it up at another time. However, I would just like to conclude and say that I think this is an extremely important discussion and that I am glad that the Left is interested in raising it in relation to the government as well. Because I think it is incredibly important when we take such crucial and important decisions in the European Union, and I hope the rapporteur can then confirm that the rapporteur agrees that we are bringing the people along. And one of the ways in which the people are involved is to give the people the opportunity to vote in a referendum, even if this means that the people may not always vote what each of us wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103811	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103812	I agree that it is good to follow developments in the European Union closely, and that we are also constantly taking note of Denmark's reservations with regard to the European Union. After all, we have several reservations, and there I think it is both healthy and good that we have an ongoing discussion here in Denmark as to whether these are the right reservations we have and whether we could benefit from a referendum, so that in some areas we may be allowed to sit at the tables when decisions are made. I think that discussion is important to hold on to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103848	Thank you. And then there are no more questions for this rapporteur. We're going to go on in the series of speeches to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203103905	Thank you, President, and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his excellent statement. After all, it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party are looking at EU cooperation with a somewhat greater scepticism if we can use that expression than the government and also other parties present in this Chamber. And that's why there's probably other things... if we should have written the statement we had chosen to stress. There is, of course, something paradoxical about it when you hear the excellent Socialist rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jens Joel, talk about two very central things, for us at least, in relation to the fact that it was not really part of EU cooperation at all. I am thinking of the minimum wage directive and the maternity directive. It is a good thing that the Social Democrats and we agree that the European Union should not interfere in this at all. One can be dealt with by the social partners. Perhaps they can do that with the other, or at least we can do it here in the Folketing. But what is particularly paradoxical here is how it has come to the point that the European Union has gained power at all. And at the risk of seeming a little dull and pedantic and that sort of thing I just want to remind honourable Members of what they signed up to in the Constitution. For it is stated in section 20: "Fundments which under this constitution are the property of the authorities of the Kingdom may be left by law to, to a certain extent, international authorities. To a certain extent: it certainly requires that there is some form of quantification of the power transferred by the Folketing to the EU. And I guess you can only quantify something you're aware of. In other words, it has become difficult to imagine such negligent transfer of powers. And I fully understand that sir... Jens Joel was born in some period after 1972, which is also my own lot in life. But that does not change the fact that we have at least a government party and then I do not know with the Left and Conservatives and the others who voted 'yes' back in 1972 saying that they really never wanted to give the EU power in this area. For reasons which we will probably interpret differently, the European Union has moved in a direction that we probably did not want. And once we have come to the realization that the European Union should not have had powers in the area of pay and maternity, for example. In relation to family law and so on, it is not too much to ask for the mistakes that have been made to be cleared up; that, as a government, you also have the plan to ensure that it does not get worse; that, for example, you have the idea that you should not get worse. At one of the forthcoming summits, it becomes a theme; for example, it makes it a theme for the European Union. Trying to get a majority in the Folketing behind them and trying to get such massive parliamentary support... maybe except from the Radical Left and other such real, truly EU-enthusiastic parties... that we do not want EU cooperation that has the power of pay and family policy. Why don't you do that? Why do we not have a joint conference where we can send out a clear signal, perhaps even with other countries where we say: our constitution is clear; this was not the intention we want to change? Why don't you do that? Yes, of course you don't, because you either don't mean it or you don't dare. And then we are really at the heart of EU cooperation. Because you're just one of those people who goes along and says, well, there's nothing we can do about that. Or do you really want to challenge? In the Danish People's Party over the last few years, and especially after brexit, we have come to the clear realization that a reform of EU cooperation in the direction of something that just resembles what a majority of Danes want will never happen. That is why we are also absolutely clear about the fact that what is needed is a referendum where the Danes can be asked and where we have a long, fruitful debate about how Denmark can take a better international position than we do in the European Union, by working with Britain, but of course also with many other countries: Switzerland, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway. There are plenty of countries that are doing very well, I would like to say perhaps even better than most of the countries that have chosen to deposit their freedom of action even beyond what they themselves wanted in Brussels. Just the latest handling, if you have to call it that, of the covid-19 has shown the incompetence in Brussels. You've even bought a chief commissioner who's an epidemiologist. There is a Commissioner for Health. An agency for combating epidemic diseases has been set up in Stockholm. Nevertheless, the EU was only notoriously behind in relation to other countries and economies when it came to approving the vaccines. Inside the website ourworldindata, you could continuously follow how we were just overtaken by Israel, Canada and a series of other countries, with which we usually compare ourselves, because the incompetence came from Brussels. And then you get a seven-page report here today, there's such a bloomy talk about how awesome it really is. I think most people can see that the European Union is not the success that most of the parties in this Parliament want to make of it, and at least it is not what a majority of Danes agreed to in 1972, 1986, 1993 and so on. And then I haven't even reached the migration policy yet. There we are talking a great deal, of course, about the challenges at the borders of Belarus and Poland, which are basically only a problem, because a majority in the Danish Parliament has still not reached the view that Denmark must, of course, have permanent border controls. We have border controls. It is therefore not quite as effective as we would like in the Danish People's Party, but we have a border control because we have a government that comes with the hat in our hands every six months and says pray down in Brussels: please let us. We have to get out of that morass, so it is we in the Folketing who decide how border controls work, because otherwise even the weakest border crossing across Europe will also become a Danish problem. Now all the media are looking at the Polish border. Perhaps we should also look at the internal Cyprus border, because we have a yes, it is not a country; it is such a kind of Turkish vassal state, North Cyprus, which is currently being exploited by traffickers to bring people into South Cyprus, which, as we know, gives free access to the rest of the European Union. It is a Turkey which, as you know, with the support of a majority in the Folketing, is still a candidate country for the European Union, which is acting more and more as an enemy of Europe, but no one dares to do anything about it, because who is really in charge? Yes, it is Brussels, and when a Commissioner says jump, our Foreign Minister asks how high? That is what we must get away from. We have to go where Parliament once again decides Denmark's destiny and where we do not have a government that, in spins and other game fighting, tries to look as if you are EU-critical, but in reality does not even dare to take its own policy so seriously that an Intergovernmental Conference is convened and demands back power in the areas on which it would never actually have been given to the European Union. That is the real scandal today, and that is what should really be the theme, I think, in this debate on the statement. But it is obviously only us in the Danish People's Party who dare to talk about it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203104715	Thank you. There are no comments to the rapporteur. So we move on to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203104737	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the statement on the development of EU cooperation. The last time we debated developments, it was, after all, with the adoption of the European Union's recovery instrument as a backdrop, a huge and important decision which is now going to work in the Member States after thorough discussions between the governments and the Commission. The big European recovery package will save thousands of jobs across the EU and create many new ones, including in Denmark. The package is a good example of how we can actually do a great deal in Europe, with concrete solidarity and the willingness to promise together. Shortly after last December we had the debate on the statement in this Chamber, we were given a bottom-up task by the EU summit. The EU should have an ambitious climate law that works. Climate challenges must be delivered so that future generations can live on a healthy planet and action must be taken together. Only by means of strong and binding European cooperation can we really solve the climate problems. Everyone knows this; individual countries cannot solve the climate crisis alone, and certainly not in small countries like Denmark. Now we have been presented with the individual elements of Fit for 55, which will make the Climate Act become a reality. Strengthened sectoral legislation on energy efficiency and renewable energy, a comprehensive review of the quota trading system and a climate tariff and many other very good measures are included, and for SF, it is important that the measures contained in the package have a rapid and real impact on greenhouse gas emissions and that, overall, it ensures that we reach the EU's climate targets. It is well known that in the SF we would have preferred to have seen a higher overall objective in the EU Climate Law, and we also managed to get the government to run a more ambitious line. Fortunately, there are many good tactics in Fit for 55, and it is important for the EU's global leadership on the climate agenda that the package should not be watered down or delayed, but strengthened, in relation to what the Commission is proposing. The quota trading system should be the main engine of the changeover, including: by extending it to housing and transport, which has had increasing emissions over the past many years, and, at the same time, for the SF, it is important that the climate package does not create a reluctance to the green transition among the peoples of the Member States. In our view, this requires a focus on ensuring that the conversion does not become unnecessarily expensive and that we ensure that jobs and low-paid households are protected, which may be affected by the measures we are taking. At the same time, there is, of course, an increasingly relevant discussion on the principles of the rule of law. The European Union must be a club of rule of law that effectively upholds fundamental rights, free media, freedom of expression and expression, independent courts and effective protection of minorities, women and people with disabilities. Fortunately, the vast majority of Member States are robust constitutional states, but unfortunately there are also countries that are not capable of meeting the basic standards in this area, and that is, of course, completely untenable. It is good that the European institutions have reached a sensible compromise on the linking of access to the EU's money box to the ability to respect fundamental principles of the rule of law, because, unfortunately, the European Union's actions to date have proved to be without sufficient strength, and it is really time that we set our feet. Poland and Hungary do well to remember how much money the two countries receive from the EU's treasury. Our rule of law is not negotiable. As has already been mentioned in the debate, the Commission has an ambition to raise the social level in the European Union. This is a very good ambition at first hand, but the film breaks when, like the European Commission, a draft law on minimum wages is presented. Firstly, it is extremely doubtful whether there is any legal basis whatsoever for regulating the area in the EU Treaty. Secondly, in Denmark we are leaving pay issues to the social partners, and this must of course remain the case and, thirdly, we do not want any regulation now or in the future to undermine the Danish labour market model, either directly or indirectly. Unfortunately, that is what the Commission is proposing, and we are opposed to it. The report on the development of EU cooperation contains many good things • elements that we in the SF look forward to today's debate in the Chamber • but I would also like to mention a few issues that are absent and which concern me. The fight against tax havens again this year is completely out of the Minister's statement. It is, of course, a battle on which the Minister himself has produced very good results while he was sitting in the European Parliament. Has the government completely forgotten that fight? Because we certainly don't have it in the SF. Another important issue that is conspicuous by its absence in the statement is the fight for more openness in the EU institutions. We would like to reiterate our call for the government to enter into this matter with all its strength. Closeness in the Council of Ministers is a major problem and it really represents a democratic deficit that the EU is often accused of having. I could talk a great deal about the Corona situation, but I think we all agree that the European Union is part of the key to lifting European countries and Denmark out of the crisis that we have been in and will be in in the future, for some, more violent than others. With those words, I would like to thank you very much for a good debate so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105318	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105321	Thank you, President, and thank you to the SF rapporteur. I just need to hear something very briefly. Now that we look at it the same way with the minimum wage and want that directive rolled back, can we get the SF to impose on the government at the next summit that it should be a theme how we get the power in this area withdrawn?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105341	I don't see any reason for that. In other words, the government has an excellent position in the field of minimum wages, as it is right now, and we are fully aware that the Commission has an ambition to raise the social level in the European Union. There have also been other good things that are very good in terms of raising the social level in other Member States of the European Union and, as such, also in Denmark. But when we talk about regulating Danish wage levels, they have to stay out of it, and there I have had great respect for the government's handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105413	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105414	So SF believes that when it comes to dealing with Danish wage levels, the EU must get out of it. But the EU today has the power to deal with Danish wage levels, and there is what I am asking the SF's rapporteur whether she and her party will agree that we are instructing the government to raise a debate to remove the possibility that the EU can deal with Danish wage levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105437	I have no objection to debating it, but I see no reason why we are requiring the government to do so, because we have just done so. We have just had the debate on the European Union's minimum wage, and I do not think that the attitude of the government on how to deal with it differs very much from that of Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidts or for that matter ours.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105454	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203105513	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for the statement. It is a statement that reflects what must be said to be an eventful year for the European Union and for Europe. I would even go so far as to call it a turbulent year. On the one hand, it has been a year in which we have seen the value of EU cooperation • how much we can do when we find common solutions to common challenges. This applies to the green transition in which the Commission has presented a historically ambitious package for reducing emissions. We would have liked it to be even more ambitious, but we do see a package that includes a strengthened quota trading system, which must now also include buildings and road transport, and which will help reduce EU emissions by 55%. in 2030. This also applies to the fight against pandemics, where, despite criticism along the way, including from the Danish Government, the European Union has delivered billions of vaccines to European citizens and has also shared vaccines with the world. Again, we would have liked to see a higher level of ambition when it comes to the sharing of vaccines with the rest of the world. However, we must acknowledge that we have at least succeeded in obtaining and distributing vaccines together, both in the European Union and in the rest of the world. We also think that this is what is called the social pillar, in other words labour relations, where the European Union has once again taken the lead and ensured that both men and women are now entitled to maternity leave, and proposals are being negotiated to ensure greater transparency of the pay gap between men and women and a minimum wage framework so that everyone in the single market is guaranteed fair pay. However, there is another side to the year that has passed, namely that several countries are testing and turning against the fundamental principles of the European Union. These are principles that, in order to be a member of the European Union, we must be a rule of law, guaranteeing independent courts and, moreover, respecting the common ground rules for cooperation and decisions reached by the European Court of Justice and guaranteeing fundamental rights for all who are living in one's state, including nationals and non-citizens, women and men, refugees and displaced persons. The fundamental principles, which are also our common values in Europe, cannot be taken for granted. They are now actively challenged, especially by countries such as Hungary and Poland. I would like to begin by congratulating the Danish Government on its clear and unequivocal rejection when it comes to Hungary and Poland's anti-women and anti-Igbt policies and breaches of the rule of law. It's in times like these when you have to know the difference between those who are brave and those who are not. So thank you to the government for making it clear where Denmark stands in those matters. But then there are also the times when I and the Radical Left are so lacking that the government dares to find the courage that has been mentioned and to speak out clearly. For it is not good enough, although it is good that the Prime Minister announces in a large and well-argued interview that Denmark should be at the heart of Europe and EU cooperation. It is not good enough for us to hear entirely from the government on a daily basis, quite different tones from the government, for example. last week, when the Minister of Justice here from Parliament's platform hasceled against the European Court of Justice and called it crazy that judgments handed down from here force Denmark to change the rules of the so-called logging, that is, monitoring, of the Danes' data on their phones. Because they're just judges, so I don't want them to interfere with that, we have to understand. Nor is it good enough for the Prime Minister, at least initially, to long for the EU's joint efforts to obtain vaccines and went to Israel with the Austrian Chancellor to try to obtain additional vaccines for Denmark instead of working on a common European solution. These are, moreover, vaccines, as has been pointed out, not there, nor would they reach Denmark through that approach, but that is another matter. In other words, when EU criticism is used every day as a lever to get some political points on the domestic scene, it sounds a little hollow to say that you want to be at the heart of EU cooperation. In particular, the last thing, that is, the thing about being in the heart of something, in my eyes and in the eyes of the Radical Left also requires that you have the heart. Unfortunately, this is where the government does not always have it. This is particularly true when you turn a blind eye to what is happening at the Polish border in particular right now. I have now repeatedly asked successive ministers to consider whether Poland is violating the refugee convention in its otherwise entirely legitimate desire and need to protect its border. I first asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration what he meant, but I got the answer that he was not as familiar with the situation at the Polish border as with the one at Lithuania where he himself had been. Then, in October, I asked the Prime Minister and was told that she was not at all aware of what was going on in Poland around the border. Finally, I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has also refused to have any knowledge of the matter other than those of us in the Committee on European Affairs. Now I have received a written reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration that reports of possible breaches of human rights have actually been sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But it is obviously not information that has come to the ministers, or at least the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration does not believe that it is their job to deal with the information about possible violations of human rights. So, when it comes to politically appointed judges, abortion legislation and LGBT-free zones in Poland, the government is happy to interfere, but when it comes to the right to seek asylum and to humane treatment, the government will not see, not hear and not speak. I hope and we in the Radical Left will also keep the government up to the point that, in the coming year, both action and speech are really working to place Denmark in the heart of the European Union. This requires that you risk losing some domestic political points that you can get by criticising the European Union for making wrong decisions, and instead use your strength to pull in the right direction. It also requires not only to be placed in the heart of the European Union, but also to have the heart of EU cooperation. That doesn't mean you have to be naive. This does not mean that we should not protect our external borders, because of course we must. But this must be done in a way that respects the Convention on Refugees and the Convention on Human Rights. With those words, I would like to thank you for a very good debate for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110315	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110320	Thank you for a good speech from the Radical Left. Radical Left and Anne Sophie Callesen end with the heart of the European Union. Can the rapporteur elaborate on what is meant here by the heart of the European Union and what that will mean? How far should Denmark go? There were also previous questions here about the whole area of employment. Is it the policy of radicals that we want to be involved in practically everything that comes in both the employment and social fields? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110353	When we say that we also want Denmark, like the government, to be at the heart of the European Union, it is about getting fully involved in EU cooperation and trying to pull it in the right direction. We can then disagree with the government there, for example. When it comes to the minimum wage, where we are then one of the only parties in the Folketing who thinks that it is actually a proposal that one should go constructively to and not reject in advance, but try to pull in a direction in which one can see oneself. This does not mean that we should not have a position in the European Union. I think that the issue has been formulated somewhat in a way as if things were going to fail from the European Union, of which we ourselves are not part. We ourselves are part of those negotiations, so of course we must make our voice heard, and that is what lies in being at the heart of EU cooperation: that we are fighting to move in the direction that is the Danish priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110439	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110441	Thank you. After all, this is such a rather fun process in the European Union, because it comes from the Commission and then comes out to the Council and to Parliament. So I would say that many initiatives come directly from Brussels, and we are not part of that, but we are trying to influence it. But then, in relation to alliances and how we can create influence, and we in the Conservative People's Party fully agree that we should try to create more influence, which alliances do Radical Left consider important to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110508	I do not know whether that is quite general what alliances we think. In order to create influence, it is absolutely crucial that now that we no longer have Britain in the European Union, Denmark must of course also seek out who will be our closest allies. There, in the Radical Left, we have a desire to leave the savings gang, not to understand that the countries that are part of the savings gang cannot have common interests in other areas, but to get out of the austerity gang, which is simply struggling to keep spending as low as possible. On the other hand, I would very much like to see you step up in relation to getting a closer relationship with, for example, Germany, which is of course a crucial country to maintain relations with now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110548	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is now Mr Beazley's position. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203110603	The purpose of this debate is, of course, to discuss developments in the European Union in the recent period, and it is clear that there are a lot of concrete things that I will also discuss that are relevant there. I still think that the big overall issue, which has also marked this period and the whole period after Britain's decision to withdraw from the European Union, is how European architecture is organised. How do we organise cooperation in Europe? I know that everyone sitting here is extremely good at geography, and that is why they know that Europe is far more than the European Union. In Denmark, it would be a matter for the Consumer Council if we called ourselves the European Union, when we are only a small part of Europe and even a Europe day and a European flag, etc. But there is a Europe and international cooperation is extremely important, and we must try to make that work. And there has been the thinking in the European Union today that you had the European Union, there was the sun, and then you had the planets that, like, circled around that sun, and then they could get closer or a little further from, and eventually they got so swallowed up, and then the system was like good. That process has also given some sense for a very long time, when it can be said that the European Union has grown bigger and bigger, and it has, like it, been able to maintain that illusion that at some point you were the whole of Europe. It is not possible to do so after Britain's resignation. After Britain's resignation, it is clear that the European Union will not be the whole of Europe, and then the question is whether the whole of European cooperation should be organised on the basis of the EU's premises or whether it should be organised on the basis of the fact that there are a lot of different European countries. I am of the opinion that the latter should be done, and I think it is very important. Let us take a very concrete example: the fight against crime. Europol is built on the basis of the European Union. The country that has put the most information into the Europol system, the country that is absolutely essential to the fight against terrorism, the United Kingdom, will now become a third-rate member country of Europol. Well, that's absurd. Should we only fight cross-border crime in the countries that are members of the European Union? No, of course we must organise European police cooperation that is open to all democratic countries and all countries that meet legal standards, whether they are members of the European Union or not. That is why we are specifically faced with the question of how we organise Europol in a new way, where it is organised in a way that is also fully open to Great Britain, to Switzerland, to Liechtenstein, to Norway, to Iceland, etc. etc. This is, of course, the discussion that I think we are missing in this paper too. I fear that in the European Union it is going the wrong way. I know that it is not the Danish Government that is driving, but if we look at the new German Government and the government basis that is for the German Government, much more integration into the European Union is set in motion. I have no objection to that, so I have no objection to the European Union becoming a Euroland with one king and one government and one finance minister, and so on. Denmark should just not be a part of it, and it should be possible to work together in Europe for those countries that do not want to join, and that would then probably increase. During the last period, as I said, the European Union has been faced with many challenges, and there has been the corona, of which there has been a brief discussion. I am not quite as impressed with the European Union's actions as others have been, but what I think is the biggest problem, however, is that the European Union is clearly the ones blocking the sharing of patent rights. It is the European Union that is blocking it in the WTO. Biden supports it. As recently as the other day, Mr Biden made a speech along the lines of the new South African variant, where he said that we must now move forward with what is called the use of patents for everyone. But the EU is blocking. It is a very unappreciable role that the European Union plays there and, unfortunately, it reflects the fact that the European Union may have understood that no one is safe until everyone is safe, but is submissive to defending the European pharmaceutical industry. Another issue is climate. There have been nice words about the EU's climate change, about ambitious targets and so on, but that does not really change the fact that science clearly states that if the EU's climate change plans were implemented, they would not meet the Paris agreement, they would not achieve the objectives. You have some ambitions, they are ambitious, we are all happy with them, but you cannot achieve the objectives, and if you have any doubts, you just have to ask the Greens in the European Parliament, as they said very precisely in the debate that was there. So it is the problem that we have a European Union which, with the plans that have been made, does not comply with those agreements. So how's it going? Yes, we had a very fun example in the European Committee yesterday, where you want to roll out charging stations for electric cars, and that is, of course, good, but you want to roll out something called LNG, and for those who do not know it, LNG is natural gas, and it is a black energy, it is such a mess, it is one that is damaging the climate. And it says in the government's overall note that what this is all about is that by 1 January 2025 Member States will have to ensure that an appropriate number of publicly available LNG filling stations are set up, at least around the TEN-T main road network, in order to allow heavy LNG motor vehicles to operate throughout the Union. It is therefore a request from the European Union that must be adopted, that there should be an opportunity to drive pigs throughout the Union. Is it climate friendly? Admittedly, there is a possibility of exceptions. Denmark will have the opportunity to exempt itself. Many countries are going to implement this and when they have implemented it and we have those barnstands, is there anyone who believes that they will then switch in five years or seven years? No, they don't. This is a very concrete example of how all the nice words are not followed up in practice. The fight against tax have been mentioned, so I will not go into that. However, I would like to say something about the rule of law, because this is an example of how things are going in the wrong direction, even in relation to the stated objectives of the European Union. And I am one of those who think that it is positive that something is happening after all, but it is something that happens after a massive delay, and it is something that happens in a way so that you cannot really be sure that results will come out of it. After all, we all know that when Denmark voted 'no' because we did not want to accept the Maastricht agreement, it was shown that it was going to reorganise the European Union so that Denmark could be left on the sidelines. Why is it that the European Union is not reorganised so that those countries that do not live up to human rights can stand on the sidelines? That would show you were serious. However, one refers to the fact that one cannot use the big bazooka and that both the one and the other are required. It's a huge problem! In relation to the issue of minimum wages, I would say that I am always surprised that someone speaks so warmly for the minimum wage. Germany is one of the hottest countries for minimum wage, but in Germany there is a minimum wage. Why do you talk so hot for it? Well, that's wondering. And it is surprising that a large number of other countries which do not have a minimum wage receive support. You can just introduce the minimum wage. What's the problem? Why should we have the European Union decide that a minimum wage should be introduced in a country that can do so itself? What's the whole point of this? There is simply not a single purpose, unless you say that there are countries that have made a decision on how they will run what has a democratic system, otherwise they should not be in the European Union, but should simply be required to do something they are not interested in. And then we are back to architecture and whether you really believe that this is a proper way of building European cooperation. I don't think so. I think we must have a Europe in several spaces, and then, of course, I think that it must have consequences if we do not want to live up to human rights standards if we do not want to live up to environmental standards and so on. etc. It must have consequences. But the idea that we should be able to decide at the level of introducing minimum wage is, in my opinion, at a level where it does not lead to increased cooperation, but to the opposite, and that is why we say that we need a European social protocol here which says that labour considerations always take precedence over market considerations. And if we cannot do that, and I recognise that it will be relatively difficult to obtain such a social protocol, then I think that Denmark must have a fifth reservation, that is, just as we have a reservation about supranational legal policy and about the euro, then we must have a fifth reservation which means that the nuts are breaking ourselves. And for those who are much younger than me, I can tell you that it was the joint campaign slogan of the trade union movement and employers in 1972 when we joined the European Union: the nuts we break ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111629	Thank you. There are a large number of comments and questions. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111637	I have to say, I'm very fond of sir. Søren Søndergaard's speech. It is not all that we in the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten see in the same way that it may be quite a bit • but I think it was a very, very fine review, and this is especially the emphasis that the wage issue filled something back in 1972. This is important because it means that it is a great deal of hypocrisy that we hear when we hear, among other things. The government says that it is opposed to the EU having any power whatsoever to have its nuts broken in relation to issues of pay; it was a debate. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Søren Søndergaard, if he couldn't see the wisdom of Denmark making this a theme at a summit. After all, we have a lot of issues on the green agenda, the economy and so on. etc. But should we not get this on the agenda so that when the Heads of State or Government gather together, they will have a discussion as to whether it was ever the intention, as far as this specific area of pay policy is concerned, that the European Union should have the power it has today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111741	Yes, I certainly think so, and that is also what was in my proposal for a social protocol. We have already put forward proposals here in the Folketing that we should not approve the accession of new countries or that we should not amend the Treaty without a social protocol. For it was quite clear with the judgments that came it was the judgment on Finland, it was the Rüffert judgment, it was the Vaxholm judgment, and it was the Luxembourg judgment that the EU was far in time to interfere in industrial relations; it showed those judgments crystal clear. That is why we said that a social protocol is essential. And I fully agree that the issue needs to be raised, but I think we need to go one step further and say that if we cannot get the European Union on a social protocol, then it will be general for all countries, because I am in favour of employees being allowed to fight for their interests in all countries, then we must have an exception on the Danish side. That is what I call the fifth reservation, and I hope that both the government and the trade union movement will go to the barricades for that, in other words as a consequence, if this legislation on minimum wages is implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111851	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111853	I have at least heard Danish Metal say it very clearly: if this is adopted here, they want a referendum on Denmark's membership. And I warmly agree with the request for a reservation of welfare, as I think I have called it, and that must of course be formulated in a protocol. But what we have to find out here isn't just how sir. Søren Søndergaard and I agree, but how do we make the government part of this fight? Because as I hear the government and the Social Democrats now, they just say: well, we have fought and that fight is lost. How do we get the government to actively address this at the next summit so that we make it clear to the other countries that it was not a Danish intention that the EU should have power in the area of pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203111933	Well, I don't hear the government say it's been fought and we've lost. I don't hear it that way. It may be that it ends there, and then we have to take stock of it, but that is not how I hear it at this time. I am sure we will get the Foreign Minister to come up here and confirm that in his reply. So I think we should continue to work for it, and our objective should be to obtain a majority in the Folketing for it. That's the way, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and I can influence EU policy on; it is, of course, gaining a majority in the Folketing. Well, there's not really any other way. And if so, sir... Morten Messerschmidt is concentrating on the blue block, I can concentrate on the opposite side, and it may well be that it will eventually be possible to obtain a social protocol by common help.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112016	Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112028	Thank you. Sir. After all, Søren Søndergaard woke up the transport rapporteur down here with his talk about LNG, and I would really like to have a little exchange on that, for Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard is absolutely right that LNG is black. But he did notice that, at the meeting of the European Committee of Inquiry, the SF said to the Minister for Transport that it was quite crucial that we also look at some of the other elements that were in his report, among others. hydrogen. Hydrogen actually seems to be part of heavy transport, and fortunately it seems that price developments are to the advantage of green hydrogen on the market, and that is very good, but it also means that we have to be very obscene about how it is rolled out. And then we told the Minister of Transport that he must promise us to really use some energy to make sure does not become inappropriate. It must be green, it must not be over-invested, and it must be at the right time. Why is Enhedslisten not interested in being part of it? Søren Søndergaard rejected it because of LNG, and I understand that, but I could have used his help to keep the Minister of Transport in his ears about green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112142	No, I mean, the SF's rapporteur didn't need any help at all there. The SF rapporteur did so well that it was completely unnecessary for me to go in to support what the SF rapporteur says. We fully agree with what the SF's rapporteur says about hydrogen. And that is also why it is so wrong that we should also be aiming for the installation of LNG motor vehicles. Where we may have a difference is where we say, if we really want the government to fight for something down in the European Union, how do we do it? So it is just our view that if we have some red lines, we have to say in the terminology in the European Committee that we have to give decisive emphasis to something. And if you do not put a decisive emphasis on anything, I must only regret that then the government cannot, yes, they can say it, but do not have to come home with it. We saw that, among other things. on the issue of climate in which I recognise, no, do not recognise, but are happy because we are pleased that the SF, together with us, fought violently to sharpen the objectives. This just did not happen, and the SF rapporteur is well aware of and knows how it is characterised by the Green Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112256	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112300	Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Søren Søndergaard takes the discussion in that direction, because that is exactly my point. I disagree with the rapporteur's last interpretation, because I do believe that we managed to tighten up the line not as much as we would like to do, but it is, of course, the art of compromise in such difficult democracies as for example. the Danish Government, and it annoys me time and time again that Enhedslisten is not in the negotiating room to fight the battle that it takes to keep not only the minister who sits there but the whole of Europe in his ears. One thing is to put decisive emphasis on some things, something else, for example. to be completely outside, as the Enhedslisten often does, and I would have liked a Mr. Søren Søndergaard and a Enhedslisten by my side in some of the battles so that we can drag the EU further in the green direction than it otherwise seems to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112345	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112348	I simply do not know what kind of negotiating room the Enhedslisten is not in. In other words, there will probably be another round, and I would like to know what kind of negotiating room this is. I know that no major decision can be taken without it coming to the Folketing and there is a majority in favour of it. And neither the SF's rapporteur nor the Enhedslisten's rapporteur sit with us when the EU is under negotiation. There we have our representatives in the European Parliament who, of course, make an active effort and sit on various committees, but we are not there. So I just don't know what kind of forums we're not in. However, we have the clear view that we are not helping to give a mandate to something that calls for the countries to be obliged to set up black country stands throughout the European Union. We simply do not do that, and of course we can say that is very square. Yeah, it's very square.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112440	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112444	Thank you for your speech to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who is an excellent parliamentarian and also a skilled challenger, you might say, of the prevailing discourse, position or something like that at any time. After all, we are very pleased about this, and this is what is needed in every parliament, and that is what we need in every cooperation, including in the European Union. I note that the rapporteur really attaches importance to the fact that we do not like EU cooperation, and one of the reasons why we do not like it is that we want more cooperation in Europe. Well, we agree that these problems must be solved together, and now there is cooperation. Mr. Søren Søndergaard looked at a number of areas of criticism. We agree with the criticism about the issue of pay • The EU must get its hands off it • But we also agree that it is actually very good in the area of human rights or climate change if the community can, as it were, sanction or stick to the fact that people should be involved. So my question is really a little philosophical about this? Isn't the problem for Søren Søndergaard's EU resistance just that the EU has become like Danish politics, when we sometimes have a smoking disagreement about the content, but that we have to discuss and see if we can create a majority for our position?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112603	No, the problem is that EU cooperation prevents countries from taking the lead on a wide range of points. That is the problem. I mean, we wrote, for example. in Enhedslisten's climate project that we should put an end to fossil cars in 2025. Can Denmark make a decision there? Can Denmark take the lead in saying that now we want to put an end to the import of fossil cars in Denmark? Can we do that? No, we have left that competence to the European Union. We have given the European Union the power to take that decision. We can't take the lead. And it may have • if we are on philosophy • a little to do with how we imagine the development is going on. I believe that developments are taking place by the fact that some people are taking the lead. I remember that there was a social democratic electoral parole once called Denmark as a pioneering country. It is actually a slogan that I have adopted when I say that it is extremely important that there are pioneer countries, not only in words but also in deeds. That is why it is a problem in terms of moving forward that the European Union is setting standards in more and more areas, which are perhaps a little better than what was before rather better than the worst but which prevent others from taking the lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112714	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112717	Not surprisingly, I agree with the dynamic of being a pioneer, and I also agree that we should be. We also agree, moreover, that on environmental and climate issues it should be, if we may say so, the rule that we should be allowed to take the lead. But if we are to draw someone by taking the lead, or if we are to influence someone, then we also have to talk to those we want to influence. It is quite true that I would like to see several points on the environment where Denmark could be allowed to take the lead. And one of the compromises that have been reached with them, which we would also like to have the power to push somewhere, is that they say that there is also a backside to it. In other words, the fact that we are cooperating and the fact that we are working together also means that we have common ground rules which mean that we cannot do exactly as we like in every area. And it is true that it is cooler to be allowed to decide everything yourself, but if you stand over in the corner and what you decide doesn't matter, then it's not so valuable to be allowed to have decided everything yourself. That is, of course, the balance we have to find all the time, and then I am back by agreeing with Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen in that it is not everything that the European Union makes up that is particularly sensible. But that is not all that the blue majority in the Folketing, when it is here, comes up with, which I think is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112829	No, and it often happens that the European Union comes up with something very sensible. So that's not where the dividing line goes. Where the dividing line is going is, of course, whether we think we can base cooperation on the fact that people can be voted down; in other words, that there is something that we can impose on people that they themselves do not want to be involved in. We can say that we do not want to trade with them. I think that's okay. We can say that we will not support them. I understand, for example, the way Poland behaves. It is not that they are still getting huge amounts of taxpayers' money from Denmark. We can say that. But we have to accept that countries cannot be forced to do something against their will. That is why we need flexible cooperation. And I just have to say that the other possibilities for cooperation that exist in Europe today are being seriously underestimated. Try to see how the development of contributions to e.g. Council of Europe. In other words, there is no comparison when compared to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112923	Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203112929	I'm simply struggling to understand this, even though I have of course had many years to understand the fact that in Enhedslisten you are so EU skeptical. With the green ambitions you have and with the ambition to fight against social dumping, for example, I do not understand that you are so notoriously opposed to this European Union cooperation. And that is precisely for the reasons Mr. Jens Joel also mentioned in his speech. Instead of trying to get involved in the fight to pull in the direction that you think is right, you choose to stand in the corner. And it is clear that afterwards one can be sorry that things are moving in a direction that one did not want and that one then has to correct. That's a political condition now, isn't it? Nor do I assume that the rapporteur thinks that we should have political debates where each party appears, where we agree on a compromise and then go back and say: we cannot live with these parts anyway, because there were some in our hinterland who disagreed. It would be the same in my eyes. But my question to the rapporteur is: what is the alternative to EU cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113039	Well, first of all, I have to challenge the premise that I should be standing over in a corner. At the moment I am standing on the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament; it is such relatively central; the corner is possibly over there. In other words, I am not in any corner, nor is the Enhedslisten, either in the Folketing or in the European Committee, so the radical rapporteur would know that by sitting there or in the European Parliament. We participate fully everywhere to fight for the most green, the most social, the most democratic. So what's the problem? But that does not change the fact that there are some fundamental problems with the European Union, and what are the fundamental problems with the European Union is that the European Union is built on a question of the free movement of market forces. It trumps everything else. That is why we need a social protocol. And we're fighting for that too. But it is the free movement of workers, the free movement of goods, the free movement of capital, the free movement of services, for example. We have made it possible for social dumping to take place today. And that's why the alternative is as long as we're part of a collaboration where it takes place to fight as much as possible and otherwise work for another collaboration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113146	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113149	Thank you. This leads me to my second question, which relates precisely to the issue of minimum wages and the internal market. Because I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that there are advantages in being part of an internal market and, on the other hand, that they do, of course, sometimes come with a price, such as the risk of social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113225	In other words, no one is preventing countries from introducing minimum wages. They can do that. They can do so whether they are a member of the European Union or not a member of the European Union. So these two things have nothing to do with each other. But then I would like to say quite clearly: we give priority to workers' rights, social welfare and democratic rights over the internal market. Always. That's just the way it is. In other words, when there is a contradiction, we give priority to workers' rights. Well, we're a left-wing socialist party. We are not a bourgeois-liberal party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113255	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113300	Thanks for a good speech. One has to say that Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten is probably one of the most knowledgeable about the European Union we have here, a great knowledge, and it is a little too bad that all the good knowledge is about finding the holes in the cheese rather than helping to find the solutions. It is clear that when you are 27 countries, it is not always those who set the agenda, that is to say what the bar will be, about climate objectives, but we are involved in drawing, and that is something where you may be able to turn it around and say that we are actually happy about that; we are getting the bar lifted. I should now like to give an example, and that goes on to the rule of law. We fully agree that we must focus on the rule of law. Is Mr. Søren Søndergaard does not agree that something has actually happened in this area of the European Union, precisely by linking the rule of law to the budget? And of course there is more to be done, but does Søren Søndergaard have another proposal? Is there anywhere else in the world where there is a better mechanism we could learn from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113404	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113406	In other words, it is only linked to the budget for the things relating to EU aid. That is the only link with the budget. So if you can use undemocratic funds in areas other than the EU budget, you can continue to receive EU funds, and I think that is really bad. In other words, if there are attacks on democratic rights in one country, I cannot understand why other countries' citizens have to deliver money to that government. I just don't understand. And that can happen even with the new rule of law mechanism. Then I just want to challenge again the line which I understand is almost all around and which says that we are standing in a corner, that we find holes in the cheese and that we do not want to be in it. Well, we are making lots of proposals about what is going to happen in the European Union. We do that at every European committee meeting. When we have mandates, we make proposals on what we think, and down in the European Parliament we make proposals. Sometimes, occasionally, we get it adopted. I am not going to entertain with what I voted for myself, but we have, for example. A large asbestos plan has just been adopted. So no, it's not just holes in the cheese.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113513	The time is no longer to entertain the achievements of the past. Søren Søndergaard No, it was also quite relevant). Here you go for question number two.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113520	It is good to hear that the proposals are on the table. After all, the Enhedslisten often attaches decisive importance to some things, and that makes it perhaps a little difficult to negotiate. Now Enhedslisten also mentioned this with electric chargers and did not have confidence that the EU could fulfil that task. Enhedslisten wants to drive electric cars, and Enhedslisten doesn't fly. How does the Enhedslisten see the need to create a green road system if we do not do so at EU level? Then there are still some weaknesses, but we do not have all the green electricity needed to run on electricity either. So what else would be the alternative if we did not do it Europeanly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113559	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113600	But we have no problem with doing so at European level. In other words, we have no problem with making agreements on the setting up of power stationers at European level. What we object to is that by 1 January 2025 the EU Member States must ensure a broad roll-out of black barn stands. We have something against this and I simply do not understand how people who call themselves green can sit and approve it here. I think that is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113634	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203113701	Thank you and thank you for your statement. The world is constantly changing. Power positions and alliances take new forms that weaken international systems and norms. We are in a challenging year in a challenging time, but it has also shown why cross-border cooperation in a European region is so important, as the report also gives many examples. So it is really important and appropriate now to take stock of EU cooperation. One of the things we would like to highlight is, after all, particularly covid-19. It makes quite different demands on security of supply, on what we call early premonitions about pandemics, on the conversion to the production of vaccines, where the European Union has a goal of being the most vaccine producing continent. It's about 2 billion doses. Therefore, it was also strange that the Prime Minister tried to create his own vaccine delivery by traveling to Israel during the covid-19 and keeping speed dating with Danish farm companies in May to get a national production instead of playing Denmark on the field in the EU. The EU Commissioner also came to Denmark quickly and met with the European Committee and told us about how it is produced in the EU and how it is handled. It made you feel a little more comfortable, but it is of course difficult to convert a huge pharmaceutical industry into a vaccine. However, we are producing and the European Union is also supporting the deployment of vaccines in several developing countries through COVAX. We've established HERA. We're gonna strengthen the alert. The focus has also been on recovery. This is something that is being run alongside the green transition, digitalisation and bringing everyone along. It is also important here that Denmark follows very closely how it roll-out takes place and how the 750 billion. The euro in the aid package is used. It is important that there is transparency, that there is proper management. We have been involved in voting in favour. Denmark also helps to pay. It is important that the money is spent properly. After all, the rule of law and Article 7 have really been under discussion in recent years, and it is important that it has an impact and a proper muscle. It must not be watered down, because then we will actually water down the democratic values on which the European Union is based. Another important issue for the cross-border is the digital markets and trading platforms. After all, it is important that we take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalisation in the area of green conversion, welfare, but also that we promote the clear rules for access to data and to further develop services for both customers and users. A great deal of energy has been spent here, also along with our good meps in Brussels, on DSA and DMA. Regulation of the tech giants, online markets and product safety requirements, consumer protection requirements are something that we have all put a great deal of pressure on them, and it looks as if it is coming along. In any case, we are following it closely, but we are not quite in the finish line. It also makes great demands now in the European Union on how to raise digital skills and e-government or governance. There is a great potential here for Danish system export and to show our leadership, because here is really something where we take the lead. The EU is under pressure from security policy. Rising energy prices and shortage of supply call for greater self-sufficiency and regionalisation. It should also provide an even greater export potential for Denmark for green energy and also power-to-x, and it is important that we are up in gear and aware of the competition. Now, for example, we have. let a German company by a draw win the establishment of the offshore wind farm Thor. It seems pretty strange. We must not put our leadership at risk. China and Russia are pushing Europe on several fronts on security policy. Russia's support for weak democracies and ongoing attempts to destabilise is a particular threat to the Eastern European and Baltic countries, but the Russian Government also has the hands of extremely nationalist wings in several European countries, and not least to dictator Lukashenko in the neighbouring state of Belarus, where the latest thing is that civilian vulnerable people have been used to go to the European Union to try to undermine our borders and also try simply to deviate from what is happening in Belarus, because human rights violations continue in Belarus despite sanctions for more than a year. How the European Union can put pressure on countries to respect human rights must be rethought. It has not had much impact. It is very, very difficult with sanctions. Generally speaking, sanctions are difficult to implement, so that they are an effective instrument and have effects and bring about the changes we would like to see. It is not because we have the solution to this, but it is something that is important that we continue to have a debate. China's acquisitions and investments in strategic infrastructure and in large European companies are increasing progressively, but probably China's geopolitical dominance in the EU. Cyber attacks by Russian actors and China's infiltration into research and IT mean that the threat picture is more fluid and harder to define. The Arctic is also an EU border, which is important to focus on. Therefore, from a Community point of view, we must also make strategic countermoves and ensure that we have a strong political border northwards. On the internal lines, the EU is challenged by brexit, where we have lost a strong ally in the EU and must create new, strong relations and alliances. Several countries are weakened by pressure on democracy, imbalances and socio-economic implications of covid-19, but also corruption. The unity of the European Union is a prerequisite for strong cooperation and a continent. Denmark's ability to defend its own interests on the basis of Danish values is strongly linked to a strong but slim EU, which focuses on cross-border challenges, because European cooperation can and should make a difference. It is about the internal market, free trade, climate, security and migration, while maintaining the need to live up to fundamental democratic values. We believe that it is essential for the success of the European Union in strengthening internal cohesion and external influence that its eyes are firmly focused on the core. First of all, it is about the foundation: enforcing and respecting the principles of the rule of law of the European Union, strengthening democracy and free press, transparent elections and building a bridge between Brussels and citizens as a clear recommendation for the conference on the future of the European Union. Here, too, we would like to see the government spreading it to a much greater extent and around the country. The development of the European Union now and in the future is about the green transition, growth and jobs, without anyone leaving behind on the platform, addressing demographic challenges and labour shortages, stability, transparency, simplification of rules and respect for Member States' special status and models. I would like to say here that when the European Union begins to focus on the employment policy of maternity leave for men, the minimum wage and the transparency of wages, the European Union is quite wrong and above the target. I have just mentioned a lot of challenges that we face in the European Union, and these are the ones that we should use our strength for. This includes the fight against crime and terrorism, and here too we believe that we must lift the reservation of law and defence. The EU must take leadership in foreign and security policy and, in particular, focus on strengthening strategic autonomy. The European Union also has another great responsibility. It's about the global south. Because who else is taking it? Here it is important that we focus on the European Union's stabilisation efforts, which must make a stronger impact on the world. Because, in relation to the global south, it is also about migration and borders, unfortunately. We now see increased border controls and more walls being built up. Europe is under pressure. However, we believe that we are much stronger if we 27 countries are together and negotiate, for example. with the African Union on migration, asylum centres and security, than if we do so bilaterally. Development policy must also be closely linked to trade, because jobs and production must be created in Africa and, at the same time, an increased focus on stabilisation must also be ensured. We live in an uncertain time. It takes strong leadership. The European Union must show strong leadership. Denmark can help to create this if we are actively involved. Because leadership isn't about a country or a person. Together, we can deal with the challenges I have outlined. We believe that Denmark has a whole range of positions of strength that we can stand on, so that we can help strengthen the alliances and help set the agenda ourselves. A strong European Union is also a prerequisite for a strong relationship with the United States. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114632	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114639	Thank you to the rapporteur for a fine speech. I am also familiar with the rapporteur as a colleague in the field of development and as a strong and strong advocate that Denmark also strengthens its work on human rights in the world. The rapporteur himself also addressed the situation surrounding the external border of the European Union and the terrible situation in which Lukashenko has brought migrants and refugees there. The rapporteur said, as far as I heard, not so much about Poland's action in this regard, and I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur agrees that we should of course also look critically at how Poland and other countries on the external border carry out the border guard, which is, of course, entirely legitimate, but it must be done with respect for the conventions and humane treatment of refugees and asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114737	Thank you to Mrs Sophie Callesen. That is a very important point, because it is not only in Poland, but also in other countries that have external borders, that we have seen how border guards treat refugees very inhumanely and with major violations of human rights. It is important that all of us in the European Union, including those who have the authority to stand at the front, respect human rights. Even if it is not because you open the door for them to come in, then all people must be treated dignifiedly and humanely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114809	Anne Sophie Callesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114812	I just want to say thank you for a very clear answer. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114816	Thank you. I do not see any more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, and that is why it must be the turn of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203114829	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to those who have been present and given, I think, many good input and reflections in the EU debate. Here a Friday morning with Mr. I think it is wonderful that we can go this weekend, hopefully, after a good debate here in the Danish Parliament, where we are actually showing each other 1) that we, most of us at least, are engaged in strong, effective and well-functioning EU cooperation that promotes the values and interests that Denmark stands for, but also 2) that we have some disagreements that we are debating openly here, which we have the opportunity to regularly with this statement and is something that we very much appreciate. I have a few comments to make first of all in relation to some of the remarks made by the rapporteurs. This applies first to the social agenda, just to make it absolutely clear that the government has always opposed the EU directive on minimum wages. In principle, we are opposed to the EU seeking to regulate in this area, even if it is a framework directive, and that is why, in line with the position of the social partners and, indeed, the Folketing, we will be voting against the general recommendation at the EPSCO Council this December. Then it was mentioned by Mrs Jane Heitmann, who, incidentally, I think, made a very fine speech about how important EU cooperation is in the world in which we live for our values, for the interests we have. However, where there may be a disagreement, there is the question of how we handle and have dealt with a pandemic. In other words, it is the clear position of the government that when we are in a situation like that when we had a shortage of vaccines at that time, we must search all the tracks of the EU and other countries around the world to speed up the deployment of vaccines. It's our clear interest. I would go so far as to say that if you did not, you would really fail as a government. We have to search everything. This also applies to the discussion about whether we can both travel to Israel or cooperate with other countries outside Europe and the European Union, while at the same time supporting and working for effective vaccine production and cooperation within the European Union. You can do both at once, and I would actually like to call for both to be done at once, even if you have to face a crisis again, because unfortunately that may be the case. What was the case, and which may be remembered, was a severe pressure on the vaccine producers. And one of the things the government did, among other things. In the EU just in response to Mrs Jane Heitmann was warm to support that we got production up speed. Among other things, we had... the head of the EU's special vaccine task force, EU Commissioner Thierry Breton, visiting Denmark in March this year, where he among other things. met with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and myself, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and since then Breton's task force has held what is called matchmaking events with the participation of Danish companies. For we have a skilled fathermind in Denmark, skilled companies that can contribute. So, in parallel with this European vaccine production strategy, the government has followed a number of tracks to ensure Denmark's long-term vaccine response, including with the Prime Minister's visit to Israel. So there is no contradiction between the government's support for a pan-European vaccine strategy and what else is being done. In the future, the government will also continue to pursue the opportunities for relevant partners in the field of vaccines, both within the EU and, of course, also through additional bilateral tracks, where appropriate. So I just want to make that absolutely clear. I would like to say a few words about the subjects in the written statement which I also expect to influence the political debate in the future. It is true that a lot has happened in the year we have been through, and many of the topics are, after all, drawing track into the time that is coming, and I would like to say a few words about that. This is about the green transition, and here I fully agree with the SF rapporteur that we in Denmark have a huge task here to ensure that the European Union is as ambitious as possible. It is also about the rule of law. There are three fundamental values, I think, that characterise us in European cooperation, and it is respect for the rule of law, it is human rights that are important to us as something that we should not just take for granted in the world we are in, and then it is also democratic values. And when I say democratic values as the third, it is also about how to interact in democracies with minorities and majority, and have democratic processes, customs and so on. All three things, the rule of law, human rights and democratic values, are under pressure in the world. And in democratic values, for example, there are also values. the pressure on civil society, on free media and the lively, open and free debate. So the rule of law is important. Relations with the United Kingdom, the conference on the future of Europe, migration, security, the EU's external relations are issues in the statement, which I think we should also focus on • and, of course, also on covid-19, where developments are unfortunately moving in the wrong direction. I would like to take this opportunity to explain the more general approach to European cooperation, because it is the central platform for Danish inclusion of interests, not only in Europe, but also on the global stage. And for me, this means that we must fully commit ourselves to finding common solutions to the challenges of our times, for example. in relation to the green transition and also irregular migration. This means that we must ensure that the European Union has a key role to play in defending our common values and interests on the global stage. This requires that we actually become better at transforming the forces that we have in Europe into the taking of interest in the world. After all, we have a great economic strength. You can gain more global influence from that. Let me start with an absolutely central issue where the European Union and, above all, Denmark must take the lead, namely in relation to the green transition. Prior to COP26 in Glasgow, the EU had strengthened its own climate target and pushed on to increase global climate action. Denmark had among other things: reach out to many of the major emitters to make them announce ambitious reduction commitments, i.e. the so-called NDCs, and for a country such as Denmark, which has committed us to a 70-percent reduction in emissions by 2030, it is positive to be part of an EU that is now seriously starting to take on climate responsibility. And it does not come from nothing; it comes from hard work, not least from the Danish side. Following Danish pressure, we have had the EU's own 2030 climate targets adjusted to at least 55%. And both that objective and the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 have been legally enshrined in a European Climate Law. It is important for the government that the EU also delivers action that meets the objectives, and the government is now working for a general ambitious line in the current EU negotiations on the proposals under the 'Fit for the 55' package. Unfortunately, however, the green transition is not the only challenge. In these areas, our cooperation in the European Union is challenged from within, as several have mentioned. EU cooperation is based on the respect of the rule of law by all the Member States and on the fact that they are at the heart of our common values. It is clear that the very worrying developments in Poland and Hungary put the EU's fundamental values and the rule of law under severe pressure. The Polish judgment in the autumn was a new low point from the development of the rule of law. It challenges the independence of the Polish courts, which in reality is at the heart of the rule of law. That is why the government also strongly supports the Commission's use of all legal and available means to push the governments of Poland and Hungary. Both political, economic and legal steps must be taken, and I am therefore also pleased that the Commission recently took the first steps towards activating the rule of law mechanism. The observance of fundamental values and the rule of law is what brings me to the second question, namely whether the relationship with Great Britain, which is not without knots, and which we will also have to deal with, is not only backwards but also forwards. New Year's Day 2020 Britain left the EU. The agreement on the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom entered into force in May 2021. Unfortunately, there are a number of outstanding issues with regard to relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The main challenge is the implementation of the Northern Ireland Protocol, where there have been a number of practical challenges with goods imported from Great Britain to Northern Ireland. On 13 October 2021, the Commission therefore presented a comprehensive package of the Northern Ireland Protocol aimed at identifying solutions to the practical problems encountered here. Denmark fully supports the Commission's package and the approach to showing flexibility within the protocol framework. However, agreements reached must, of course, be implemented and respected, and the British Government's demand for the renegotiation of the entire Northern Ireland Protocol, less than a year after its entry into force, is simply not acceptable. And, unfortunately, the negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom on the Protocol are extremely difficult. We hope and continue to work for the best, but, unfortunately, as a result of the British approach, a breakdown of negotiations cannot be ruled out. If that happens, the European Union must be prepared to act in an objective and proportionate manner which, at the same time, reflects the seriousness of the situation and, of course, the British actor. An even more serious border issue has raised itself to the east. Lukashenko's hybrid attack by instrumentalising vulnerable migrants at the Polish-Belarusian border is critical and a serious security threat. There are still thousands of irregular migrants on the Belarusian side, and the humanitarian situation, as several speakers have said, is extremely worrying. That is why I am also pleased with the extensive EU efforts currently being made, not least in relation to contacts with countries of origin from which migrants come. Especially because the effort and the European diplomacy seem to have borne fruit. The influx of irregular migrants has slowed down, but this can of course change again quickly, which is why we need to monitor the situation closely. The pressure on the EU's external borders is a common challenge that we must face together. The countries that protect the external Schengen border therefore also deserve our support, and it can be seen that the EU's migration and asylum pact contains a number of good actions that the government welcomes and which, overall, can contribute to solving the common migration challenge. On the Danish side, we attach importance to combating the root causes of irregular migration. This requires both interventions in the neighbourhood, along transit routes, enhanced cooperation on the EU's external borders and, moreover, cooperation with the countries of origin of irregular migrants on their readmission and reintegration. The EU's proposals for the Asylum and Migration Pact can support some of the elements of government policy, but unfortunately the EU is not really tackling the root of the nettle. If we are to resolve the migration challenge, and that is what we have to do, it requires us to think new, and that is why the government is still working to transfer asylum applicants to a partner country. Only in this way can we put an end to the cynical business model of traffickers and seriously break the incentives for irregular migration that cause many to die on the routes to Europe. And this work must, of course, take place within the framework of Denmark's international and EU legal obligations. Let me therefore also focus for a moment on the EU's general foreign and security policy, where the EU has strengthened its efforts. The main reason is clearly seen in a generally increased level of threat, with a worsening security landscape in Europe's neighbourhood. I have to say that this is a very serious situation we are in. For example, we see Russia's massive military construction along the border with Ukraine, which is extremely worrying. Another concrete example is Belarus, which I just mentioned, and again this instrumentalisation of vulnerable migrants, which is completely unacceptable and must be stopped. And then we have Afghanistan. This is a serious situation we are facing right now. The country is on the brink of collapse, the civilian population is under severe pressure, and that is why we in the government are also pleased that we in the EU have been able to allocate substantial resources to the Afghan population, both in the form of emergency humanitarian aid and long-term support. I also welcome and am proud that last year the European Union adopted a global human rights sanctions regime. This was done with a strong Danish commitment, and the EU launched the regime in March yesterday, among other things. to Russia, China, North Korea, Libya and South Sudan. And I am satisfied with that, that is to say, we are going that way too. This is one of the strongest tools we have in the drawer when we make targeted sanctions, and we must continue to use this in our foreign policy toolbox. I would say that sanctions must not become an end in themselves. It is an important instrument in terms of the European Union's defence of fundamental values in the world, but we must also ensure that the European Union acts on human rights violations quickly and effectively, and therefore I am very pleased that Denmark is at the heart of the discussions we have in the European Union. Let me add a few words to the conference on the future of Europe, which has started. It has not been the subject of much debate here today, but it can be said that we can be pleased that in Denmark at least we have more than 180 events across the country. The European Council has given them support and the EU's future is a focus. I think we owe it to each other to debate the European Union, not just for European elections, that is to say elections to the European Parliament or in referendums, but on a regular basis, as we are doing here today in the Chamber. And then I think that the most important thing in relation to the conference on the future of Europe is that we listen to how citizens want EU cooperation to develop. There is a lot that could be said about this, but I would say that what is currently the very highest priority of the Danish Government and I am glad that several people have mentioned this is openness in EU cooperation. We have created a transparency alliance across Member States and EU institutions to raise this agenda. So there should be no doubt that, as I said, this is a matter for me personally and for the government. I believe that we can make the European Union more democratic if the European Union also becomes more open and people can be held responsible for the decisions taken and if the processes are more open and it becomes more relevant and more present to us citizens. In other words, EU cooperation depends on the citizens having confidence in cooperation and on their being able to hold elected representatives responsible for the decisions taken. I therefore hope that we can work together to make transparency an important theme of the conference, and I also look forward to the citizens' ideas on how we can promote a more open and more citizen-centred European democracy. For the government, a strong EU is beneficial to Danish interests. We must, of course, work with the Folketing in our backs, for a European Union that continues to make the Danes more secure, more prosperous and which, at the same time, strengthens and secures the foundations of our social model: democracy, prosperity and the rule of law as key values, and an EU that protects our interests and values in a world where democracy and the rule of law are increasingly challenged. That is why it is the central platform, not only in relation to Europe, but also globally. Whether we are talking about green conversion, protecting our external borders or enforcing the rule of law, and therefore also protecting our own citizens. Then there has been a debate which we have been running, and I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, who speaks of Europe being more than the European Union: that is quite correct, and we do not need many geography lessons to see that. However, if you have to engage in binding cooperation on important, important issues that I have mentioned today, then the European Union is absolutely essential. And I have to remind you, sir. Søren Søndergaard says this debate is not new. We have had it ever since membership, and I would like to quote a quote from the former President of this tall thing, sir. Svend Auken, who I believe back in 1998, when we were only 15 Member States of the European Union, at a conference headed "There is no cooperation outside the EU', said, at that time: if you are hung around the circus, the EU is the only tent in the city. And I think he was right about that when we were 15 countries. Now we are 27 countries, and what this is all about is ensuring that what is going on in the circus tent is what reflects the interests and values that we have on the Danish side. So here I have to disagree with Mr. Søren Søndergaard: If we are to look after our Danish interests effectively, then we must be in the circus tent. Svend Auken was right then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120624	Thank you. A brief comment was made to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120629	If you go to a circus, it's probably true. However, I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister to confirm that there is indeed binding cooperation within the Council of Europe, in other words that there is in fact something called the European Convention on Human Rights which has a court of law. And then perhaps the Minister could inform the Things about the relationship between how much we invest in the European Union and how much we invest in the Council of Europe. For where the circus is and how big it is may also be related to how much you invest in it. My second question to the Minister is now that there has been talk about the stuff about standing out in the hooks and so on.: Will the government, together with the European trade union movement and the Enhedslisten and at least the Social Democratic Party, when the Social Democratic Party was in opposition, fight for a social protocol which is being written in as an annex that makes employees' rights not subject to freedom of movement, as happened with the Vaxholm judgment? Will the government fight for it, including at a forthcoming summit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120733	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120734	I agree that the Council of Europe is very important and absolutely crucial in maintaining the values I spoke of before, not least human rights. Joint EU cooperation in the Council of Europe also plays an essential role here in ensuring that the Council of Europe is effective. We have just seen an example of the Kavala case where the Council of Ministers and the Council of Europe have now decided to start a procedure against Turkey for non-compliance with the court decision. It's really important and good. Then there's the social protocol thing. The government's position is well known. We want better protection of professional rights. What's the challenge of that? Søren Søndergaard is also that it will require a treaty amendment and thus all the Member States will agree on it. Therefore, if we are to review the Treaty and discuss it here at some point, we can do so, but now and here it is about strengthening employees' rights in other ways and protecting a more social Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120836	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120837	May I interpret the Minister's answer to the Government's promise that the next time there will be a Treaty amendment and the German reports, it may happen before you know it will be a crucial demand from the Danish Government to have a social protocol in place so that we do not continue to have the situation where professional rights and employees are placed under the internal market with social dumping and slave-like conditions in certain parts of the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120911	We do not want to start an Intergovernmental Conference and Treaty change discussions now. On the contrary, we want to use the Conference on the Future of Europe to focus on how to resolve the concerns of European citizens, for example. migration, the climate challenge. This does not change the fact that the clear position of the Social Democrats and the government is that in future we want a social protocol, the opportunity would have to be offered. However, this will require the agreement of all 27 countries. And since there is no intergovernmental conference or there has been a call for such a conference, that is not where we are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120944	Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203120947	Thank you to the Secretary of State. I would like to follow up a little on the question that I actually put to the Social Democrat rapporteur when he was on the floor. After all, the Foreign Minister knows about anyone that the situation in Afghanistan is going to have an enormous impact on Europe, and I believe that we in Europe will have to adjust to the fact that there will be flows of refugees that we have to deal with in one way or another. In the SF we feel that we would rather have a European distribution of refugees. We also understand the government's objection that better conditions need to be ensured in the neighbourhoods. We fully agree with that. But in order for this puzzle to go up, we also have to take some more quota refugees here in Denmark and in the first place just meet the quota we have. Right now we've taken 200, we can take more. Is the government prepared to do so, including taking refugees from, for example. Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121044	In relation to discussing it with any refugees, I would like to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. I just want to remind you of what we have done in relation to Afghanistan. We have helped over 1,000 people, including vulnerable Afghans, who have worked with or for us in Denmark, out of Afghanistan and here to the country. We have done this in a fantastic operation, carried out not least by our authorities, and we have also lifted out people who worked for the European Union or for NATO in Afghanistan. In fact, Denmark is very high compared to how many we have taken, for example. of those who worked for NATO's mission in Afghanistan, i.e. Vulnerable Afghans. We are much higher than, for example. large EU countries, if our population is taken into account. So it is just to say that we are undertaking the task, and I also share the rapporteur's view that the challenge in Afghanistan is huge, and we must deal with that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121140	Here you go, Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121141	I also know what we have done in connection with the evacuation. I myself was involved in those discussions, and it is no secret that the SF would have liked us to have taken some more in that evacuation, for example. non-governmental staff. But let it go. How does Europe deal with this imminent problem of pressure on our borders, including from Afghanistan? I almost hear the government say it as if we had taken what we were supposed to do by means of the evacuation, and I disagree with that. There's gonna be more, how do we help them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121219	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121220	First of all, it is a question now and here in Afghanistan of avoiding a humanitarian and economic collapse in that country. Nearly 40 million people are on the verge of a collapse. About half of the Afghan population is currently starving, so emergency aid needs to be provided. Denmark alone granted 500 million in 2021. kr. for humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, and we call on other EU countries to follow that path. So it is important that we focus on this in order to avoid the challenges rising.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121251	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121253	Thank you, President. I would really like to have a slightly more precise answer to what Mr. Søren Søndergaard asked if it would be appropriate to have a summit discuss it at least for us in the Danish People's Party and, I sense, also in the Enhedslisten quite central issue, that the EU should not have power in the area of pay. As Mr. Søren Søndergaard explained in his speech that it was indeed something that was discussed in detail back when we had the vote on the EC Treaty • a treaty which a majority of the Foreign Minister's party voted in favour of. We have been able to correct it on a regular basis; once the Treaties have been amended, we have been able to correct it here and withdraw it from the Treaty. That's not what you've wanted. Now we are in the middle of this morass where the European Union has adopted a directive which is a bomb under the Danish labour market, and then the Foreign Minister says that you might want to look at that at some point. That is simply not good enough. Well, we need to know when that time will come. When is the Foreign Minister planning to make this a theme at a summit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121351	I think we should refer to the discussion of a resolution which I understand the Danish People's Party itself has tabled. I think it is dated in this Chamber until 21 December. But let me just make it clear, even before the debate that we are going to have in this Chamber with the Minister for Employment, that we are acting, that we believe politically that the European Union should not interfere, for example. leave rights and that the Danish organisation of our welfare and labour market model should be a matter for the Folketing and for the social partners, and therefore the government is also constantly working to ensure that new EU legislation will not challenge well-functioning Danish solutions. Having said that, we do not want to open up to Treaty changes. We want to stick to the fact that whatever problems we have, for example, with. The leave directive and others, the benefits of this membership are greater. But we are working hard, of course, to put fences around our own welfare and labour market models.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121444	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121445	Well, that's an answer that brings back the memories of the ancient comic Ali. In other words, we have a treaty to which the Socialists have voted in favour and which has given the European Union powers, which the Social Democrats say they disagree with, but we do not want to convene a meeting in which we can then try to take back those powers. And then they say, "Oh, now the government has to get some rest and things like that." That is a very, very messy approach to something that we others regard as central, namely Danish sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121512	That's a silly approach, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, is that the Danish People's Party, on the one hand, wants to withdraw Denmark from the EU and, on the other hand, wants to work for e.g. ensuring that EU cooperation respects some fundamental things in the labour market. It's messed up. It's silly that you want to put yourself out of control. In the government, we have the clear position that we are going in and taking responsibility. EU cooperation helps create more than half a million jobs through our membership of the internal market in Denmark. We have a huge advantage from being a member, and that is why we are working within that framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121548	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121820	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 7 December. For the explanatory statement, please go to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203121852	Thank you. The UN and the WHO have said on several occasions that reforms are needed in the field of mental health care, so that neglect, coercion and violations of human rights can be stopped. They point out that there are clear signs of mistakes in the mental health system, which is too hard based on a biomedical model. Denmark has received criticism of our psychiatric treatment system in several areas, once we have graduated from the UN Human Rights Committee, and by 2020 we had to accept a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights as a result of excessive use of coercion in a specific trial. At the same time, the reports from the Danish Health Authority and the National Auditors show that the objective agreed by the Danish Health Authority and Danske Regioner in 2014 on the • and I quote • that the proportion of persons who are subject to forced fixation must be halved by 2020 and the total use of coercion in the psychiatry must be reduced at the same time. All studies indicate that the mental health of the population is in crisis, but there is no indication that we can solve it with more of the same. Therefore, it is important that we set ourselves clear goals for the upcoming 10-year plan, which not only focuses on more beds in psychiatric and traditional medical treatments, but also seeks to create space for a new treatment paradigm, which we can fortunately find in several places today, both in countries around us and in parts of the treating psychiatric and municipal services in Denmark. In the SF we do not have an intention to stop the use of psychopharmaceuticals if patients experience it is helpful, but we think it is necessary to look up and see if there are more traces that can be part of the solution. One clue could be to work with more offers of therapeutic treatments and the involvement of patients and networks. Another clue is to spread the examples that we know exist both inside and outside Denmark that reduce the use of force both in the form of belt fixation, physical retention and medicine. A third and absolutely necessary track is the development of municipal services, so that prevention can be strengthened, and the development of e.g. PPR for children and adolescents and easily accessible psychosocial assistance for adults. A fourth clue is to put an end to the stigmatisation of citizens who have had a psychiatric diagnosis, among other things. by empowerment and recovery is central to treatment and rehabilitation. So this question has been raised because we are about to start some concrete negotiations on a 10-year plan, but before then we can have a debate on what goals and changes we want in our efforts for better mental health. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203122143	Thank you. That was the reason. Then we must have the answer, and thus it is the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203122154	Thank you for that, and thank you for the question as to whether there will be clear objectives as a prelude to the forthcoming 10-year plan for psychiatry for the use of new therapies in psychiatry and for strengthening mental health. Just a little background first: The Danish Health and Social Security Authority is on the verge of their professional presentation, which will form the basis for a government proposal for a future plan for psychiatry, which we will then discuss with the parties in the Danish Parliament. For a 10-year period, the plan will set clear targets for the long-term direction of development and priorities in the psychiatry field in general. The 10-year plan will ensure that in the coming years there is a continuous focus on strengthening psychiatry; that the fundamental challenges across the health and social area are addressed. I fully agree with the reason for the question here. There can be no doubt that this is needed. I also agree that if we just continue with more of the same, we will not achieve those goals here. There is no easy or quick solution, but we need to build, step by step, a better link between the whole of psychiatry and not just psychiatry, but also those areas that are closely related to it. The aim is that we get to a proper level, that we have a completely strengthened dignity, that, to put it bluntly, we have an offer we can be familiar with to offer patients, relatives and employees, wherever in Denmark, regardless of suffering. This is not least important because we know that more and more Danes come into contact with psychiatry either as patients or as relatives, and mental disorders are the disease groups that fill the most in our society when we measure across key figures such as: presence, lost years of life, admissions, emergency visits, sick days, but also health economy and loss of production. So it is not just the individual, it is also society. It actually even fills more than cancer, which is in a different place. It is a challenge, it is increasing. It inevitably puts increasing pressure on psychiatry, and it can be felt by employees and patients and also by relatives. So psychiatry, and not least those who are in touch with it, deserves a high-quality treatment when they need it. That is why our ambition is clear. We need clear targets for where psychiatry will be in 10 years' time. Then we also had the previous plan, which has now just expired, in the reason for the question. When you take stock of that is one of the things that has been done in the trade union work... you just have to say that the objectives that were defined have not been achieved. That means that we can learn a lot from that now. We can, of course, worry about it, we all do, but we can also learn from what we did wrong and how we can then ensure that when we make the future plan, it must be a plan that is formulated and made in such a way that we continually take steps to achieve our goal. I would like to say that it is a priority for the government to seek a broad agreement in the Folketing, because our interest is that it becomes politically binding, even if there could be a change of majority over such a long ten-year period. We believe that this plan will provide the best conditions for success. The 10-year plan for psychiatry will be based on the academic presentation, and that is what the two boards are putting the finishing touches to. That plan must be the guiding principle for investments in psychiatry and must ensure that the funds and resources that we provide to the area are also professionally sensible and are also targeted and that we are therefore working in the same direction. The academic presentation will describe the status and challenges in the field of psychiatry and will indicate how the challenges identified can be addressed and what actions should be prioritised and in what order it should take place. I know that there are a lot of people here probably among the rapporteurs, but at least as much among patient organisations and also among employees and relatives who are waiting impatiently for it and who also have high ambitions and high expectations of our joint work on the 10-year plan. I understand. Now the professional work is almost finished. It has not been forced, and it is a thorough work. It is important that it is a thorough professional foundation that we stand on top of when we have to discuss it with each other in the political space. So the thoroughness and professional quality and also the link between the efforts to be undertaken are the foundation. That's also why both the Danish Health Authority, but also the Social Services Agency, are responsible for this work. This is what provides the foundation for being able to create a comprehensive, holistic plan that should not be a desk exercise. There has been a very strong focus from the two agencies on involving relevant actors and stakeholders in the field in order to ensure that the work gets as solid an anchor as possible and that the efforts are workable and durable and put into practice. For this reason, there has also been ongoing advice from the boards with professional presentations, and there has been a cross-cutting follow-up group and four professional working groups with representation from professional companies and organisations, including patient organisations; I do not go into all of them, because it is a long, long list, but just to mention a few examples, I can, among other things. mention the national association SIND, the National Association of current and former psychiatric users, the Peer-Netværket Denmark, the Danish Psychiatric Society and the Psychiatric Foundation. Even if the 10-year plan has not yet landed, that does not mean that we are waiting to address the existing challenges. The professional work is in progress and soon finished, but it is not the case that we have been waiting for that work to be completed in relation to lifting some lifting the psychiatry. Here I would like to draw attention to the 2020 Finance Act, which added EUR 600 million. kr. annual and lasting to strengthen psychiatry. So it is new funds from the Treasury, that is. tax money for the psychiatry. The financial boost is the 600 million. kr. provided each year, lasting • provides the opportunity to solve the most acute challenges and can of course be used for more beds and more staff so that the basic framework for psychiatry in the regions is in order. No one has claimed that everything has been resolved. That is also why we have to make the 10-year plan and all this work. But it was a considerable and tangible priority that happened there with the Finance Act, which was, of course, the first financial law that the new majority after the parliamentary elections entered into. It was thus an economic addition to psychiatry, which provided better opportunities to gain more capacity, training of employees and management, but also the recruitment of several relevant professional groups such as activity workers, physiotherapists and ergotherapists. And with a greater width and volume among employee groups than doctors and nurses, there is also the possibility of having greater variation, the supply of new knowledge and more interdisciplinaryity in applied therapies. I mention this because that is why we have this discussion today. When you acquire such new knowledge and more professionalism from these professional groups, it will inevitably help to increase the overall quality of treatment for the benefit of the individual patient, also in relation to preventing the use of coercion. If you look at the budgetary agreements concluded by the five regions, you can clearly see that these 600 million. kr. I would like to mention a few examples here: of specific interventions, these are resources, among other things. the recruitment and competence development of employees, the recruitment of activity workers, the extension of activity provision, the increase in outpatient treatment capacity, the dismantling of waiting lists and the building of a new children's and youth psychiatric centre. There is also a region which has used funds to subsidise a museum with works by artists with mental disorders, most of whom have been hospitalized or associated with psychiatry. The museum has open workshops used by users and former users of psychiatry. So it is not just some walls where something is made, it is also a living and open workshop to the benefit of the users who are there. And I am pleased that the funds also go to concrete measures that make a particular difference to the individual patient in particular, but also, of course, to the relatives. Following on from this, I would also like to emphasise that it is absolutely crucial that the patient is in the focus of the forthcoming 10-year plan for psychiatry. The plan and its actions shall be based on the state and needs of the individual patient and shall be adapted to the situation and circumstances of the individual patient at precisely the time of his/her life. In relation to patients, I think the right thing to say is that there are huge differences. There are some patients who need help to get a good everyday life, some need a little more help at the right time to avoid a mental illness arising or developing, and others again need proper and timely treatment in the psychiatric system. In psychiatry, there is a general focus today on patient involvement and a focus on patient participation in relation to treatment. Similarly, there is also a widespread awareness of the value of treatment-supporting activities and other treatments in addition to psychiatric core therapy, which includes medication and conversational therapy. We can, among other things. I am sorry, President, but these are some English terms • recovery mentors and peers. In other words, it is former users of psychiatry who form an employee group which both today and in the future psychiatry has an important role to play. The employee groups can play a unique role in psychiatry and come up with a different perspective than the health professionals can. They act particularly as links between users in psychiatry and health professionals, where they can help focus on users' own wishes. We also see this reflected in the fact that employees can be employed to carry out activities that can strengthen the well-being and overall mental health of patients, and that can therefore be far-reaching. It can be from exercise offers over creative workshops, specifically with clay, paint, sewing, music, song, and where there is also an awareness to support the possibility of these activities in the interior and outdoor interior of the frames and facilities you have. One example is that so-called sensory space has been established in all regions, i.e. space, which is used for relaxing and calming measures through the use of music therapy, it may be fragrance therapy, it may be light, and the use of senserum therefore also has a deescalating purpose, which among other things. may help to prevent the use of coercion. So it's all about having the right framework, including the physical framework. In addition, priority is also given to 8.7 million. kr. to the Centre for Arts and Mental Health as part of the agreement to implement what is called the social, health and labour market reserve for the coming years. The Centre is anchored in the Psychiatry of the Capital Region in collaboration with the Statens Museum of Art and the Association of Arts and Mental Health and is to be a centre of knowledge and competence, gather academic knowledge and develop interventions and educational elements in the field of art and mental health, as it is called. Patients in psychiatry receive, among other things: opportunities to participate in writing programmes with Danish authors, being taught by professional artists in among other things. to produce visual arts, video and podcast, and I would like to thank the parties for giving priority to this area and thus also help to ensure that there is innovation and that there is innovation in this area, and I look very, very much forward to following that work as well. The general access to and prioritising of the possibility of opting for activities and other forms of treatment in addition to the traditional psychiatric core treatment is, I think, positive, and I would very much like to see an even greater focus on this. That is why I must conclude by saying that I am very much looking forward to presenting first the professional work and then a proposal from the government to a 10-year plan for psychiatry, but of course the most important thing is to get an agreement on it and that we can see it working in practice. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123537	Thank you. As far as using English words and quotes is concerned, it is not prohibited; we just want it to be very short quotes and that there is some kind of translation and both the Minister of Health lived up to so well. Now there is one short comment, and first it is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123555	Thank you. I do not think there is any doubt that we actually have a psychiatry that is in crisis. The use of coercion is increasing, inequality in health, people live shorter, and in reality many are denied the help they themselves think they need. We are actually seeing more admissions, even though the conditions are also more lasting. I agree that there are a lot of good things going on out there, but it has also been the case for many years that it is as if the good experiences are not really spreading out. I cannot help wondering whether this is also about the way in which we understand mental illness, and whether it is also one of the things we need to include in a 10-year plan; that is to say that we are actually thinking well about a very narrow view of mental illness as a disease that needs to be treated in a health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123701	I think I'm gonna have to declare myself 100 percent. Agreed. So, in my preparatory work to this day, I was very pleased with the many good examples that I could also highlight, and it is of course important that we can see the full picture: firstly, as Mrs Trine Torp says, the massive challenges and problems that are in a very, very pressured psychiatry, but also the efforts that happen that help people every day. After all, we need to be able to see and focus on both, so as to ensure that we learn more from the concrete departments that have strong experiences with new initiatives and that we learn from them across the board. I think it has to be said that psychiatry has suffered from the fact that you have been too bad for it, and there are probably many reasons for that. But that must be one of the things we must ensure together, namely that those objectives are achieved, and we cannot say that there is only one way to do so. However, we need to ensure that we learn from each other's experiences.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123809	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123811	Thank you. I will be a little on that track, because I fully agree with the Minister's view that there is not just one way, but that we need a broad range of treatment options, so that citizens can, as far as possible, be accommodated in relation to their needs. But when it comes to monitoring and ensuring that we achieve the objectives we hope to see described in the 10-year psychiatry action plan, what is the Minister's thinking that there will also be a concrete follow-up to this? So that it is not just left to us to say that now we have made a plan with some goals that we then put into the drawer and take up in 10 years, and then we find that we didn't make it. So, how do we ensure the ongoing follow-up? We have previously suggested that you should have a psychiatry council with both users and professionals and family representatives who could regularly bring in kick-ins to the areas where we are not reaching the goal • how do we do that? Could it be a road? Could it be an opportunity that we had ongoing inquiries here in the Folketing to ensure that it was followed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203123918	It may be, it is both-and; it may be that it is several different things. We just have to say that it is very, very difficult to measure diseases in relation to each other, but on a number of parameters it is broadly the disease group, i.e. cancer, which is no. 1 and No 2 on the parameters I mentioned here. And you can learn from some of the things that have happened to the strong cancer packages we have had made, on which there is an enormously strong follow-up. I do not imagine that we can copy one into one, because these are different areas, but that we are learning from how to ensure that follow-up. And I believe that this should be both a professional responsibility but also a political responsibility. That is why I can say to the parties that I do not envisage any free rounds because it is binding, and if you want to take responsibility here, then it is a responsibility that will also be binding in the years to come. That is also what I hear and which I hope the parties will be involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124021	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124022	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering this question. As far as the well-being of children and young people is concerned, it is no secret that corona has been a huge magnifying glass for the challenges that our children and young people unfortunately have. In his speech here on the challenge picture the Minister wanted about psychiatry, the Minister said that work has simply been postponed three times because of corona. And I would like to say that I understand very well that the minister has been busy with corona, but the reality out there, Minister, is that a large number of young people, both in primary and secondary schools and in universities, have been sitting at home behind the screens. The challenges young people face are stress; it is anxiety; it is depression; it is self-harm; it is occd; and it is suicidal thoughts, that is, the list is very, very long. And in the Capital Region, it has been observed that in the last year the number of inquiries has increased by 27%. What is the Minister's response to the thousands of children and young people on a waiting list for treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124135	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124136	There is no doubt that the increase in the number of problems of distrust and particularly the onset and serious mental problems we have seen in the youth generations has also been seen in the years before corona, but there is no doubt that in Denmark and in a number of other countries it has been hard in every way to be young under corona, and those who already had a problem of distrust, and those who already had mental problems, and those who suffered from mental illness, have not had it any easier, in any way. This means that there are clearly people whose situation has deteriorated. This is the reason why the Danish Parliament has come together to support very concrete initiatives financially, and we have looked at concrete initiatives in the SIND, the Psychiatry Foundation, Better Psychiatry, Children, Young & Sorg and at various interventions that have been given a number of funds precisely under corona, to see what we can do to help those who can otherwise get into trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124240	Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124241	Thank you very much and thank you for the Minister's speech. I do not want to thank you for the answer, because I still need some answers. But first of all I would like to say that I am glad that the Minister mentions some of the things that can be put in place for medicine and that he mentions the money that we have set aside for art and mental health together. It just annoys me, and it's deeply critical that it's always the capital that has to run with these projects and more funds for the benefit of the patients who are. Sometimes it is also inside the other major cities, but Region Sjælland, who doesn't just have a university they can do research on, but have the most sick people on Security and on Kofoedsminde, can just fend for themselves, because they don't get very many project funds. The fact that it is always the capital that runs with the funds is annoying to me enormously. I would like to have an answer as to whether the government has clear objectives for more medicines-free treatment offers, precisely because it has now seen the evaluation of a project.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124348	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124350	Firstly, on the art initiative, which is part of the broad agreement between the parties, I would like to say that it is a national knowledge centre, so it should be possible for both the Capital Region and the Region of Zealand and South, Mid and North to benefit from it, because the knowledge there is not reserved. And it is precisely in the word national knowledge centre that it is national. On the second question, I would like to say that there are actually some very, very good results from the experiments that have been carried out. This was what was called the 'rate pool' in the past, which started the drug-free trial, and which has actually gone on because of good experience, either with the medicine-free, but also with the reduction of medicine and, at least, the strengthening of the self-determination of those who wish to do so. We know how important it is that the more you are in control of the course you are in, the better it is for everyone, of course, not least for the patient himself. So there is good experience with that and we must, of course, ensure that those experiences are also reaped elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124454	We'll thank the minister in this round. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203124517	Thank you. As I mentioned in the explanatory statement to the question, the UN and the WHO have been calling for governments in Western countries such as Denmark to take effective action to counteract dehumanisation, excessive use of coercion and over-medication. But it hasn't happened and the recovery approach and yes, it's an English word, but I think it has come into the Danish dictionary that we've known about, isn't supported enough. A biomedical approach dominates and there is a lack of real involvement of users and relatives in relation to the treatment. Too many people experience that they get too late, too little and wrong help. The question is how we can get a more humane treatment with a focus on personal recovery, a more socially oriented overall thinking, so that we not only treat symptoms but prioritise psychosocial and rehabilitating interventions. Many minor attempts have been made over the years, but without changing the basic thinking of the general practice. We therefore hope in the SF that with the forthcoming 10-year plan we will be able to bring together a political majority, which will be visionary and not just do more of the same. We need to develop a system to strengthen mental health, which sees the human being behind the diagnosis and which gives hope of improvement. Fortunately, the idea of a more humanistic approach exists in several places in regions, municipalities and civil societies, and we see more attempts to reduce coercion, to involve recovery mentors, users and relatives, and we see this both in departments and in parts of social psychiatry, and in Danish practice it is here by quietly growing. The art is that recovery approach also has to be real. It is not enough to say that you work recovery-oriented unless it is shown in the ways you talk about and with people who box with psychosocial problems, how you understand the problems, and in the way you organise aid and support. Unfortunately, this dehumanisation and the use of both informal and direct force continues to push our head forward in our treatment system, among other things. because a number of citizens with mental disorders are considered to be so complex and difficult to help that they are subjected to both physical and medical coercion in critical situations. For example, it is seen that psychopharmaceuticals are given in large quantities and also so much that it is risky over-medication, and this is despite the fact that the effects are absent, but the side effects are to be felt for the people who get them. In SF, we believe that some new ways of looking at mental disorders are necessary if we are to seriously address the problems in psychiatry and generally change and develop mental health in Denmark. We must dare look up and not only look for the lost keys in the light poles, because then we may see that there are more keys to the solution. The biomedical approach, which focuses on brain chemistry and neurological processes, thus fills a lot in the understanding of the mental problems, and this blinds us to some of the social factors that also contribute to both creating and sustaining mental disorders. Today there is insufficient scope for combining or replacing medical treatment in psychiatry with a wider range of treatment options aimed at the whole human being's need for inclusive communities, meaningfulness and empowerment. It is also an English word, but it means something about giving power to. We need an approach with a broader understanding of mental disorders and traumas, where we see the mental illness in the light of the life we live. Thoughts, feelings and behavior actually become meaningful if you see it as answers and reactions and survival strategies rather than something sick, something that is wrong. So in addition to looking at that approach, we also need to strengthen the municipal services that we offer to citizens with mental disorders and in disarray before they end up in psychiatry, because the aim must also be to avoid hospitalisations and rehousing. We also need to strengthen the PPR in relation to children and young people and the easily accessible, acute and flexible municipal services for adults. And municipalities and general practitioners and psychologists must have better opportunities to provide treatment services and help to vulnerable citizens before they end up in the treating psychiatric system. And then there must be much better coherence between municipal and regional services, so that citizens who are printed for example. housing, first of all, has the assurance that the necessary expertise in psychiatric care can continue to be drawn on, that the housing aid is in place immediately after you have been discharged from the hospital, and that you meet trained staff at the settlement and are not isolated and quickly reinstated. In other words, we need to look broadly at this area and I look forward to the negotiations we will have later, but I am also looking forward to the debate we will have today. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF, I shall make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Psychiatry with the Finance Agreement for 2020 has taken the first steps towards an increase in treatment psychiatry and that the 10-year plan now seeks to set the long-term direction for the development of a more holistic regional psychiatry, social psychiatry, the development of settlements and local psychosocial efforts. In this context, preventive work must be stepped up, including: through early and rapid help in local government and the development of PPR. Finally, treatment offers need to be developed in order to focus more on the patient's own goals and wishes, more offers with a trauma-conscious approach, effective drug-free offers, better involvement of users and relatives and ensuring choice in treatment. The use of coercive measures must be significantly reduced, and empowerment and recovery must be a central part of the procedures, both in hospital, in outpatient care and under the local authority regime. Users must experience a much more coherent effort. V 17).
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125144	Thank you. And the proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125150	Thank you very much, and thank you for reading your adoption text. I could not really hear anything about whether there were any clear objectives, and so I would like to know what objectives the Socialist People's Party has in terms of offering drug-free departments or other things. What are your objectives when we come up with a 10-year plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125210	Just in relation to the objectives of medical-free services, I would like to say that we have tabled a motion for a resolution in the past in which we would like there to be medicines-free offers in all regions. That could be an estimate of it. I would also like us to have an objective which is that there should actually be more choices in terms of treatment for citizens, so that you will not be met with: you can have this treatment, and if you do not want it, we cannot help you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125237	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125239	Thank you very much. At least that was clearer than in the proposal for adoption itself. Then I will come back to what I asked the Minister. The Minister says that now that we are giving money to a project located in the Capital Region, that applies to everyone. Yeah, it's in relation to the knowledge center. Because if you have to come in and have some of it, you have to pay money, whereas the things you have agreed in the reserve are in the Capital Region. So there are still patients from in here who benefit from it, while from other regions you have to buy knowledge. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125309	This center already exists, and the idea is to spread the knowledge they already have. There is a Center for Mental Health - Cph in the Capital Region. But by supporting this center as a national center, you can spread the knowledge they have already built out to the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125328	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125330	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. We in the Left have a desire, when we are hopefully invited to the negotiations mentioned by the Minister, that we will jointly set ourselves a goal for more young people with either a mental illness or a mental vulnerability to complete youth education and thus have a better chance of gaining a foothold in the labour market. Would the SF be able to support such an objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125401	In fact, I think that this is a rather important objective. Because, together with the fact that they must also have a network, that they must have a place to live, etc., are some of the things we need to measure when it comes to people's whole lives, because people's whole lives are more and more than getting some symptoms of some suffering you have. In fact, it is also to get a handle on the life in which you have to thrive. So I think that is an important objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125427	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125428	I'd like to sign for that answer. I think it is important for more young people to gain a foothold in the labour market and to have the opportunity to be part of the great community. I know that not all young people with a mental vulnerability or a psychiatric disorder would be able to work full time, but I think it matters to most people that you can contribute and take part in being part of the community. So I just want to sign and say that I look forward very much to working with the SF when the Minister calls for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125456	Thank you. In fact, I think that we should lean on the fact that there is actually good experience with ips, which is a way of integrating the treatment that you get into psychiatry, with an employment effort, and where the citizens themselves are actually satisfied with the efforts that are driven by what they themselves are motivated for. And they come into ordinary employment. That's quite interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125519	In doing so, we thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we are moving forward. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203125542	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for calling a debate on a very important subject. We have a major task in lifting the psychiatry. For too many years, psychiatry has not received the political attention it deserves. It is therefore only good that both today and in the future we will have ample opportunity to discuss challenges and solutions in psychiatry. After all, we agree that there are a lot of places where we can do better, not least when it comes to less medication, less coercion and recovery, which are some of the measures that are asked about in the text. There is enough work to be done. That was precisely why we started work last summer on drawing up a 10-year plan for psychiatry. We asked the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Social Protection Agency for a technical presentation • a technical presentation that would both identify challenges and make recommendations for the years to come in the field of psychiatry. This applies, among other things, to: recommendations in relation to the order in which we have to deal with the problems. For there are many challenges after many years of delay in this area, and we believe that the 10-year plan must set clear targets for the direction in the field of psychiatry. The work, as you know, has unfortunately been delayed by several laps due to corona. But I look forward to getting the professional presentation in the near future and getting started on the job. I think we all look forward to that. We have already lifted the area by 600 million. kr. on our first Finance Act. The money must go to more beds and more staff and thus also to support the objectives that are asked into the text. The text of the question refers, among other things, to: drug escalation. After all, this is an area on which we have previously focused. We got, for example. a few months ago, an evaluation of a rate pool project that was just about reducing the drug consumption in adult patients with schizophrenia. The evaluation showed that 10%. Of the patients, 52 per cent became drug-free, while 52 per cent were drug-free. had their drug consumption reduced by 50 per cent. or more. In many places there is good experience in providing patients with different types of physical and social activities, peer workers, senses room and other measures to give patients a calm environment. So this suggests that it is possible to reduce drug consumption. We must, of course, look at this in the context of future work. The same is true of coercion. Despite years of efforts, we have unfortunately failed to achieve the objectives that have been set in the past. We have succeeded in reducing the use of coercion in some areas, but then it has increased in others, so here too there is a major task in the forthcoming work on the 10-year plan, both in setting new objectives and in following up on their achievement. For us, it is also important that this is a holistic approach. This requires strong and coherent efforts, both in the health sector, where no patients can fall between two chairs, but also in relation to, for example, education and employment. This is precisely why it has been important that both the Danish Health and Social Security Authority have been involved in the preparation of the technical proposal for the 10-year plan. In other words, there are enough challenges. Now, as I said, I look forward to the technical presentation. Against this background, we will have a very solid foundation to stand on when it comes to setting objectives and giving priority to work for the coming years. Thank you for the debate that has taken place and I look forward to the continued work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130048	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and it is only from Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130052	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. Now I asked the government before the Health Minister: what is the government's response to the thousands of young people and their families who experience that waiting lists for treatment in children's and youth's psychiatry are all-long? I also mentioned before that, in the Capital Region alone, the number of references has increased by 27 per cent. This means that there are young people on waiting lists for treatment for stress, anxiety, depression, occd, self-harm, suicide attempts, maybe, and suicidal thoughts. The government did not really have an answer to the thousands of young people on the waiting list. But have the Social Democrats? What are the Social Democrats' answers to the families who are sitting out there watching where Mom or Dad are sad that their son or their daughter has an obvious psychiatric challenge, but there is no treatment offer. What are the Social Democrats' answers to the children and young people and their families?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130201	Thank you for the question. As the Socialist Minister also replied, there are a number of efforts here in connection with the Corona measures that have been put in place in cooperation with various organisations which, fortunately, are out there now and are working. Then I also share the analysis of this problem that we see in our children and young people. Unfortunately, we have seen this for a long time, and we saw it before the Corona situation. And that is why the very thing about children and young people, which is also mentioned in the proposal for adoption, is important to us, namely with the early effort. We fully share that intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130300	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130303	I just need to get it right. So what the Socialist rapporteur says is that efforts have been made that work. Does the rapporteur really believe that when the number of references has increased by 27%? in the last year, that is, during corona, that it is the experience you have out there when you as a young person have self-harming behaviour, suffer from occd, suffer from anxiety, suffer from depression? Does the rapporteur really think that is the view that is out there? And is the answer really: have we set in motion initiatives that work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130339	That is not quite how I said it, as it is concluded. I think that the efforts made by the organisations that have been involved in helping to bind civil society together with treatment psychiatry should be welcomed and appreciated. And we have seen that in the short run they have helped. Then there is certainly a lot of work ahead of us in the long run, and fortunately there is also a working group that sits and looks at this particular area of children and young people. And we get this series of recommendations, which also have to meet the challenge in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130427	The next brief remark is from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130432	Thank you. I'm going to go on a little bit along the same track, but maybe not quite the same way. Well, for many years we have seen enormous pressure both on youth psychiatry, but also on adult psychiatry, with a lot of admissions. And in reality, you could feel a bit like it's the screw without an end. So what do the Social Democrats and the rapporteur think about how we are really going to put a stop to this sharp increase in admissions and, in fact, perhaps also having the basket broken, so that we have fewer admissions and fewer re-hospitals? What, according to the Social Democratic Party, is it necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130517	This is precisely the early and the rapid effort. And this is the focus, which is also in one of the working groups that is currently working on it and will shortly be delivering the recommendations to the Ministry of Health. It is with this that we also get the coherent efforts of schools, education, health care, and later also with employment; that we get thought in all of it; also when we look at our children and young people, the starting point is the whole thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130557	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130600	Then I have a follow-up question on that. What part of a future plan is planned in relation to the objectives and efforts that we are going to set in motion in the plan that the Social Democratic Party is going to be in the municipalities? So, what kind of municipal interventions are we going to have strengthened? Because it's for me to see the place where we can really do something that slows down this explosive increase in admissions to children's and youth's psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130629	I see that we need to strengthen everyone and the intention is that when we get the professional presentation, yes, the professional recommendations we get are also in a priority order. Well, what makes the best sense in professional terms? And that is what is intended, namely that we can work from it, and I am sure that the municipalities will play a major role in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130657	Thank you to Mrs. Julie Skovsby. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and I would like to welcome the next rapporteur from the Left, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203130727	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for calling for an important debate on the psychiatry of the future. After all, the government went to elections at a new ten-year plan for psychiatry, and since the elections in 2019 there has been virtually complete silence, perhaps just apart from a small initiative on the Finance Act, and that a so-called work has been started with a challenge picture, which the government has now postponed three times. I think most people understand very well that the Corona has taken up the Minister for the last year, but I do believe that there is very little understanding that it has been necessary to postpone work on a 10-year plan three times a whole. But then last week there came out of the blue completely an email with a save the date invitation to the presentation of the challenge picture, and we look forward to it in the Left. For the hand of the heart, the corona has been a giant magnifying glass for the challenges of psychiatry. In the Capital Region alone, the number of references to psychiatry for children and young people has increased by 27 per cent, and here we are not talking about distrust, no, we are talking about serious psychiatric diagnoses such as AIDS. stress, anxiety, depression, OCD, self-harm, eating disorders, suicide attempts or suicidal thoughts, and I am actually a little sad that we did not get a clearer response from the government to the thousands of children, young people, parents and relatives who all have to live with long waiting lists. The fact that the psychiatry is challenged is not news, and for us in the Left it is and has been a priority to lift the psychiatry out of the younger brotherhood. Among other things: with it we prioritised targeted funds in the economic agreement between Danske Regioner and the VLAK government. We want to ensure that the money goes to psychiatric patients. The boring trend we have seen here under Mette Frederiksen's government is, of course, that funds for psychiatry, among other things. is used to repay old leasing debts in the Capital Region, and that simply is not good at all when year after year we find that we, among others. is far from our common political objective of reducing coercion. It's going the wrong way, Minister. We need to think new things, and we need to think in completely different ways. Let me give just one example of how we can go new ways together and with new efforts challenge common thinking in psychiatry. In 2019, WHO made the report "What is the evidence on the role of the arts in improving health and well-being?" The report shows, among other things, that art and creative activities can support the treatment of mental illness and affect mental illness positively and support the prevention of disease and promote good health. We know, among other things. from the Region of Southern Denmark and from the Capital Region that there is good experience of involving art and creative activities such as: visual art and literature in both treatment and recovery. Therefore, it is very good that with the latest agreement on the backflow funds from the SSA reserve or the rate pool, we have agreed to allocate funds to the Center for Arts and Mental Health so that we can learn more about the field of art and mental health. I fully agree that medicines in relation to many mental disorders are part of the treatment, but I am concerned that the increasing trend towards the use of medicines in some contexts will be the easy solution, if that is the case. That is why I am incredibly pleased that during the recent negotiations on the SSA reserve, the Left pressed for funds to be allocated for a knowledge acquisition on the reduction of overuse of medicines. We should not be so afraid to think out of the box when it comes to the work in psychiatry. Medicine and coercion can be effective tools to resort to in order for a patient to return to a more normal life course or to keep a patient in a good condition, but we must not be blind to the fact that, for example, art, culture, dance, drama, sensory space and other creative activities can have a healing aim. That being said, it is not what does it alone. We need to go further, and we must dare to involve the relatives and use the resource that they really are. But we also need to take care of our relatives so they don't get worn out. On the left side, we would like to see the psychiatry associated with each patient in the same way as we know it from the cancers, where we have patients responsible doctors. This will provide a better overview for a vulnerable group of patients, where life is often both turbulent and chaotic, and it will ease the pressure on the relatives when a health professional takes control of a often complicated course of treatment, which also often includes a social effort in one form or another. Let us make life easier, more manageable and less vulnerable to psychiatric patients and users. We on the Left hope that the government will be a part of this. Then I would like to read out a joint proposal for adoption on behalf of the parties Left, Liberal Alliance, Danish People's Party, Conservative People's Party, Christian Democrats and New Citizens, which reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the psychiatry is challenged and that obvious issues with among other things. long waiting times for treatment for children and adolescents are not handled by the government. The Danish Parliament wonders that the government has not yet presented an overall challenge picture and now more than 2 years after the Danish Parliament elections in 2019 has not taken decisive steps to improve the conditions of psychiatry users and relatives. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to ensure prevention and that more children and young people experience an inclusive psychiatry, where reference is made more quickly to the right treatment offer, and relatives need to be more involved. People with double diagnosis often fall between two chairs. The government is required to ensure a solution that holds hands under this vulnerable group so that they do not become throwing balls. There are many alternative methods of treatment to supplement medical treatment and coercion. The Folketing instructs the government to ensure more focus on the whole human being through access to treatments that can supplement the usual treatment. V 18). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131412	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's first, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131424	Thank you. Sometimes rhetorical hypocrisy can become so thick that it almost drives down the walls in here in the Assembly Hall. I have to say that I find it unfortunately did a little in the rapporteur's speech here. But let me start with what I agree with the rapporteur at least, and that is that there are some challenges with regard to psychiatry and that there is a need for a lasting boost. When I called it rhetorical hypocrisy, it is because I think that, when we look at how we are going to solve the challenge, we can say that the path which the former Left Government went and which has been going for several years has led to massive under-funding of psychiatry. Among other things, it has. This is because the economic agreements that have been concluded have not followed the demographic trend and have therefore underfunded the agreements. This has meant that the targeted funds that could be given to psychiatry were eaten up by general responses before, so that it really did not turn into a boost, whereas under this government we have, after all, helped both to secure the demographic trait and to give a substantial and substantial boost of 600 million. kr. annual and permanent in the years to come. It is easy to say that this is not enough, but it is, after all, more than has been invested in previous years. That is why the question is just to the rapporteur of the Left: when we have to solve this challenge, when we have to invest, is it the rapporteur's view that we have to go the way of the previous governments, namely to underfinance the welfare of the regions in general and then to give individual climbing funds to psychiatry, or should we give a general boost both to cover demography and also to build on it with permanent funding for psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131601	After all, there are many ways to go to solve the challenges of psychiatry. What is absolutely crucial to me, for us, is that psychiatry really gets a boost so it can be felt. We started when we were responsible as VLAK government, supported by the Danish People's Party. As I said in my speech, for too many years, psychiatry has been in a small brother's role, and it's the cold, boring, sad facts. We started a boost of psychiatry, but we didn't finish, so we would love to cooperate with both Enhedslisten and other parties on how we can give the psychiatry the boost that is absolutely necessary, so psychiatry shouldn't also have a small brother role in the future. As I also said in my speech: Psychiatry users and the relatives of psychiatry need a new direction. And we must dare to go new ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131700	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131704	Thank you. I think that is positive, and I take this as a commitment that the Left will also support a welfare law that ensures that we cover the demography and that we can then build on top of it. But it's just to make sure that this also means that it's natural that the money alone doesn't. That is not what is going to solve the challenges of psychiatry alone. However, does the rapporteur agree that there is also a need for a substantial economic boost if we are to ensure the broad palette of treatment options that we obviously lack today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131734	Well, at the elections in 2019, the Left gave the electorate a vow of prosperity, which was among other things. That means that when we get older and when there are more children, the economy has to keep up. And we stand by that vow of welfare. Where I know we have a disagreement is in relation to how it should be financed, that is, where the money should come from. But we stand by the welfare promise that we gave the voters back in 2019. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131758	The next brief remark is to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131802	Thank you. In both the speech and the adoption text that was read out, there is quite a lot that is backward-looking and that is about criticising the government. That is not what I find most interesting to debate here. It's actually forward-looking. And there I was glad that the rapporteur was talking about how we can think in new ways, and I would just like to hear: since we have been thinking in new ways over several times and there have been good things that have shown good results, what is the barrier to things not changing? So, is it only a question of resources and who gives it priority, or does the rapporteur also think that there is a need to look at how we really understand mental illness?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203131855	Now I think, if I have to stick to this with the joint motion for a resolution, which all the blue parties are behind, I would say that I am going to say, among other things. mentioned in the text of the adoption that we need to ensure prevention and an inclusive psychiatry, and that relatives need to be more involved, and for double-diagnoseds who fall between two chairs, we require the government to find a solution and hold hands under that group. So when the rapporteur says that it was backward-looking, I would say that it is probably just a truth with modifications. There is a lot here that points forward and actually says something about what kind of priorities we also have in the blue block. In other words, I would like to admit to the rapporteur that there is a lot, what to say, stigmatisation and there is a lot of taboo about having a mental vulnerability or a psychiatric disorder, and this requires, on the one hand, that we get things spoken and put on the table as they are, and, on the other hand, that we dare to think new and perhaps also move down some tracks where we have not been before. One could, for example: mention the area around coercion in psychiatry. There we have failed big time, both red and blue governments. We have not solved the task, and there I would like us to be able to think new things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132002	The next brief remark is to Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132007	Thank you. I would like to follow up on my fellow Members and, in particular, on Mr Beazley's report. Peder Hvelplund's question about demography and how to reverse developments in relation to the underfunding of psychiatry. Does the Left and the Left's rapporteur recognise that this is also about how we finance our municipal settlements, our municipal primary school and our municipal nursing school? Or how, perhaps, to ask a question that is not just about the economy, does the Left really look at the context?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132059	The Left sees the context in such a way that we have enormous challenges with the relationship between the three silos. In other words, if you look at the Bermuda triangle between general practice, the regions and the municipalities, then patients see that there are enormous challenges when they move from one sector to another. We have a commitment to that and I hope that is one of the things the Minister of Health will play out with when he presents the challenge picture that we will handle these transitions in a better way so that it becomes more flexible for patients. After all, in our adoption text we have mentioned the double-diagnosed, that is, those who have both an abuse and a psychiatric condition. They are very much aware that the transitions have been challenged. So I think it's perfectly natural that you look at this kind of thing when you have to make a 10-year plan, where you have to wear something with the short light and something with the long light on it. Some of the short light must be how, compared to the group of diagnosed people, we ensure that the transitions here become more flexible and more user-friendly and citizen-friendly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132206	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132208	Thank you for the answer, which is that it must also be professionally based, in other words, in the context of looking at the transitions that exist and that we need to create the connections. I was actually glad to hear that. Let me return to the economic issue: does the Left recognise that there is a link between how these different sectors are financed and that we therefore need to finance our welfare in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132248	Well, I think it is quite obvious that we need to finance our welfare in the future. That is why the Left is so concerned about bringing more people into the labour market that more people must contribute to the community that we are. We have some challenges in psychiatry, among others. about labour, and I wonder why there are a number of applications from foreign doctors who would like to get into the Danish healthcare system and contribute to both growth and welfare, but also to care for patients, so I wonder why they do not do anything about it and have the staff challenge dealt with. So, yes, things are connected, Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132325	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132338	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for taking this question. For many years we have agreed on many very good things in the field of psychiatry • probably more than so many other parties, despite sitting at each side of the table. In the Danish People's Party we want a completely different psychiatry than the one we have today. In fact, after 14 years of psychiatry rapporteur, we have come to this point, and I see that we continue to put some of the same things into the psychiatry that has not worked. If, in the 14 years I have been a psychiatric rapporteur, we had started by deciding what kind of psychiatry we want from day one we would have had a completely different psychiatry today. Here we are talking about medical-free departments. When I came up with the proposal in 2015, I think it was only the Socialist People's Party that was in favour. We had to fight to get money off the bet pool. Social democracy was not for drug-free departments. We fought it through. And when we got it through, it was the staff who didn't want it. So it's culture out there that's wrong with when you think that medicine solves all the problems in psychiatry. So we had to change the setting when we were looking for the pool and say it was about degressivity and not drug-free departments. Then somebody grabbed it. And what does the evaluation show? It shows that 10%. became drug-free, 20%. had their drug consumption reduced by 75% and over 50%. got it reduced by more than 50 percent. So there was something about the talk. So we have to look at: what kind of psychiatry do we want? What kind of culture is it supposed to be when it's someone's mentally ill? We believe that we should turn it all upside down and look at how we see the individual who suffers a mental disorder, because this ensures that, as a child and young person, we do not become part of the psychiatry we see today. I fought side by side with psychiatry rapporteur Özlem Cekic of the Socialist People's Party. And we've been beaten up by psychiatry because we wanted some other things to be done closer to the citizen, for example. working together with psychologists, psychiatrists and socio-economic companies on social issues, on employment and activation, and looking at people instead of looking at the diagnosis. We have wanted this for many years. And come on, it's hard. It's really hard to turn around. But I am therefore pleased that the Minister also took up some of these important points in his speech. If we look at the freedom in psychiatry, where we all know Søren by first name, which goes and does a lot of activities for individual users, then we know how much use it means, and that's many of the things we need to get into our psychiatry. We need to find out what kind of psychiatry we want before we start making a plan. Otherwise we will have all these projects, just like the project I criticised a little, in the Capital Region. The minister says it's gonna be a knowledge center. But people have to buy their jobs from other regions. The money that has been set aside is for some researchers who work in the Capital Region of Denmark, I think it is and that is where you get professional painters and others in. We should not have more projects for individual municipalities and regions. If they're gonna start something, it's gonna have to be across the country. It should not be the postal number or the region in which you grew up that determines whether you get the right help. We've had enough of that. Over the 14 years I have served as a psychiatry rapporteur, this has mainly happened in the large municipalities because there are most psychiatric users. That goes without saying. But try to go down into the areas where there is a long way to a psychiatric department, where there is a long way to excellence, and ask how many of the project funds they have been given to get some things started. So I hope when we start discussing it we look at what kind of psychiatry we want. What kind of culture do we want and how do we look at the individual when it gets a mental illness and gets mentally ill? And I hope we can agree on that. But I look forward to the negotiations. I'm just afraid it's gonna be like the other two psychiatry plans, that is, projects here and there, all over the place. But I'm gonna do my part. Maybe we could make it a bigger plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132842	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and it is from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132849	Thank you. The rapporteur cannot be surprised that there is a great deal of what the rapporteur says in his speech, with which I really agree, and I am glad that we can now also talk about culture, because I very much agree with this that we have set a lot of good things in motion. There's a lot of good going on out there, and there's a lot going on. in the rapporteur's own region at Slagelse Hospital something very good about a department where one has decided to work trauma consciously. It's going on out there. I just often wonder what it is that is the barrier to the fact that, since some people are actually creating something good, it is not being spread or that it is being strangled again. What makes that culture so difficult to change? What does the rapporteur think?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203132943	That's what I'm wondering. I have seen that those with whom you work best as a politician are those who have either worked out there themselves who are close or have tried some of these things. I say that after working in here for 14 years and having been around the country. So why don't you implement it? It's like you have to be able to see and learn the same thing in order to know what to do. So you have to feel it. That is my short answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133011	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133015	That is the political responsibility. That is quite correct, and perhaps we should also be a little more courageous in saying that it is not even certain that any of these changes can happen in the system where the problems are. Perhaps we need to create a system outside what can actually help, because sometimes it is a sluggish system. I think there is political responsibility in this, but there is also professional responsibility. What kind of appeal do we also have to make about what kind of dialogue should be about culture in professional circles?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133049	The reason I answered what I said last time is that we must have the same basic idea in our heads, and the psychiatrists and psychologists must also do so. We need to have the same attitude about what is helping. That's why we went to Trieste with the Psychiatry Committee, that's why we had an aha experience when we were in Trieste, that's why I sent our employees to Trieste in my municipality. Or just to Slotswagon. It's to find out how they work with the individual human being.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133116	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133136	Thank you for that, President. I should now like to begin by clarifying, after Mrs Liselott Blixt has been up here, that the Enhedslisten, of course, also supported the drug-free sections at the time. Now I am not the only representative of the Enhedslisten, and Enhedslisten also supported the drug-free sections at that time. But first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Trine Torp and the SF very much for raising this debate, because it is so important that we keep the debate on psychiatry going on and how we get the psychiatry lifted. That was also the reason why, when we went to the Finance Act negotiations on the first Finance Act after we had had a change of government and we had the Social Democratic Government, it was the highest priority requirement in the Financial Law negotiations that we had to ensure that we were given funding under the Finance Act for psychiatry, that is to say, permanent funds. At the time, we saw it as having also had a decision that we should have just started work on a 10-year psychiatry action plan, and that it should, as it were, be what could secure the foundation, in other words, ensure that there were also resources in the hospital psychiatry for some of the most ill and some of the most vulnerable patients, who we know also need a place in hospital psychiatry, and also there were sufficient beds there so that we would not have to see them squeezed out and be on municipal settlements or be in our own homes, but also ensure that there was also a wider treatment palette, i.e. that there was a greater interdisciplinary treatment, so that we would have more professional groups and thus also be able to ensure a treatment that was more based on patients' own wishes for what would ensure them better treatment. Now we have been waiting for two years, and I therefore share the impatience that has been expressed by several people in relation to the 10-year psychiatry action plan. In other words, it should not be the case that we should wait ten years before we started it, but that we should just get started now and start setting targets in relation to it. And I also think that some of the things that have been raised in this debate are incredibly central in that this is precisely about how we get a psychiatry with a broader treatment palette, where we can ensure a greater focus on prevention, and where we can also have a different view of the whole question of citizens with mental illness, about mental well-being and also the whole idea of the extent to which medical treatment should be used. In the Enhedslisten, we are not opposed to medical treatment, I think it is part of the treatment spectrum that should be, but we need to have a broader focus on what different treatment options we can use, what it is really the citizens want, and what it is that can ensure them a greater degree of self-determination, both over the life lived, but also over the treatment that you can get when you experience that you get it difficult, and you know that those periods are coming. That is why I also believe that this is one of the things that will be extremely important in our psychiatry action plan, and some of what I hope we can jointly help to highlight, precisely that we ensure a broader treatment range, but also that we set clear targets. For my fear is also a little that we can come up with a psychiatry action plan, where we can wing that now we have made it, and then what we have often experienced in the past will happen is that it has been waved off, and then we will forget about it a little. There I think it is absolutely crucial that we get some sort of follow-up where we also get involved both users and relatives and professional organisations' perspective, in terms of whether we are going to achieve those goals, and that they also have the opportunity to raise new demands and to ask politicians why they are not doing this and so instead, and can say that they have experience elsewhere with that it and it works, and that it is actually one of the things that is in demand that we get the whole user and relation perspective into the whole picture. One could, for example, do so. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. I very much hope that, in the wake of this debate, we will also be able to ensure that we have a large degree of involvement of those involved, namely the users, the relatives and the professional staff who are in the psychiatry, and thus also ensure that we have targets that are not only quantitative, that is not only about reducing the use of coercion, because we know that the use of physical coercion can only lead to increased use of medical coercion, but that we have some more qualitative targets where it can be about ensuring a greater degree of participation, both in education and in the labour market, increasing the average life expectancy of citizens with mental illness, reducing the number of hospitalizations and reducing the number of suicide attempts, that we can set out clear criteria on which we can measure the efforts and so that we can constantly assess the efforts we are making, also for those who are users. So we look forward to cooperation and we support the adoption text that Mrs Trine Torp previously read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133659	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133703	Thank you. I mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech with the biomedical approach, which I believe actually stands in the way of the recovery approach and the more, what can be said, citizen-oriented approach that I would like there to be. That is why I would like to hear: Enhedslisten and the rapporteur see it as part of the explanation of the problems we are facing now, that there is so much focus on disease, on diagnosis and on reducing symptoms more than on having a focus on what kind of conditions it is, what kind of experiences it is that people have what they have, so to go from what is wrong with you? What happened to you? Is this a switch that Enhedslisten thinks is important?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133757	Yeah, I definitely think so. Well, I think that when we have seen the increased focus on the use of the biomedical approach, it is precisely because we have experienced a psychiatry that has been extremely pressured, where it can be said that in some cases the easiest approach has been to say that then you are medicated out of it. My point is, you can't write off the medical treatment. So medical treatment will continue to be part of psychiatry, for there are just some people who have really positive experiences and with whom we can help along these lines. But I think that part of the reason why it has come to fill up so much is that we have had a psychiatry that has been underfunded that there have been no resources allocated to the more interdisciplinary effort, to have more preventive action and to have the more holistic image in relation to the individual patient, but that one has just focused on which medical preparation one might suppose can help in this case. And I think that is what has created the great focus on the biomedical approach, but I also believe that it will continue to be part of the psychiatry that we will have in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133858	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133902	Yeah, that's right. You shouldn't take the medicine from someone who thinks they benefit from it. But there are also just a lot of people who don't have it and who experience incredibly many side effects. But it's not that much of the medicine, it's the way you understand it. Because when you're taking medication, it's because you have an idea that the problem is inside the brains of people, some neurological processes or a brain disease that is not documented and with a less focus on what it is in the surroundings that creates this disorder. You can't cure that with medicine. Is that also part of the explanation that we are hanging where we are now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203133943	Yes, I think that is certainly part of the explanation, i.e. the whole failing focus that has been in relation to the preventive effort... also to be able to ensure that we have more support right from birth, up through the day care institution and at school, ensuring that we have a greater room for manoeuvre, that we also have the opportunity to track it down when we experience that there can be a mental stress, and thus also to help put in place early. I think that can help prevent much of the medical treatment. And, as I said earlier, I think that this is exactly what has caused us to find ourselves in this situation, that we also have the cultural focus on what the problem is like. And there I fully agree that we need to ensure that we have a change in relation to it. I just think that what is crucial is that we ensure that citizens actually receive the treatment they are asking for, and if, for some, it is a question of medical treatment, we should not reject it, then of course it should be an option and part of the treatment range that we offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203134039	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I would like to welcome the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203134105	Thank you very much for a very good question debate, I think. I made an effort, of course, to listen to both the critical voices, but also the constructive tone in which this debate was held, and I think it is a good thing for the meetings and discussions that we should have with each other. I have looked forward very much to getting the professional basis from the governments and also to telling us about it, and we will ensure that the parties receive a thorough introduction from our governments in their deliberations and proposals and assessments. And, of course, I also look forward very much to getting started and moving forward with the 10-year plan. I said from the outset that our aim on the part of the government was to reach a broad agreement, but I also said that it will not be a free round because we must commit ourselves to achieving those objectives, and I think I am only strengthened by the fact that there is at least the will of the parties today to take responsibility for this very, very important task for all of us. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203134226	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no brief comments to the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 7 December 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20211203134250	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 7 December 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I will refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I will also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
