ParlaMint-DK_20210326100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 200 (Proposal for a law amending the daily offer law (Collecting of data • Minimum standards in day institutions) on the collection of data and minimum standards in day institutions) and Bill No. L 201 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on post-secondary and free vocational schools and the Law on upper secondary education (Better framework for dyslexics in post-secondary and lower secondary education, etc.) in upper secondary education)). Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 202 (Proposal for a law amending the law on basic integration training (igu) (Enlargement of the target group, etc.) For integration initial training) and Bill No. L 203 (Proposal for a law on the return of foreign nationals without legal residence). Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 204 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorisation of Healthcare Workers and Healthcare Workers, Tobacco Products Act, Electronic Cigarettes Act, etc.) and various other laws (Amendment of the rules on record keeping, reaction to non-payment of registration fees in the field of tattoo, additional provisions related to the Market Surveillance Regulation, and legislative changes to the Psychiatry Act and the Radio Protection Act)). Minister for Culture (Joy Mogensen): Bill No. L 205 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Copyright (Implementation of parts of the Directive on copyright and related rights in the digital internal market and Directive on the rules for the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to online broadcasting by certain broadcasters and broadcasting programmes, etc.)). Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill No. L 206 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the killing and temporary prohibition of the maintenance of mink and of the Law on the Environmental and Food Complaints Board (Extending of the circle of eligible secondary occupations, rules on requirements for environmental permits, etc., rules on application, deadlines and documentation requirements, rules on the taking over by the State of replaced assets and access to demolition and disposal, etc., rules on access to justice and time limits for bringing proceedings, etc.)). Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V) and others Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 286 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on working conditions, the environment and safety in connection with the transport, storage and handling of electric and hybrid vehicles). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Kofod Group). B 288 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the conclusion by Denmark of the Agreement of 30 October 2019 between the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark, together with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands, of the one part, and the Government of Norway, of the other part, concerning the demarcation of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles in the area between the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Fastlandsnorge and Jan Mayen) and Motion for a resolution No. B 289 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the conclusion by Denmark of the Agreement of 30 October 2019 between the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark, together with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands, of the one part, and the Government of Iceland, of the other part, concerning the demarcation of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles in the area between the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Fastlandsnorge and Jan Mayen). Mai Mercado (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 290 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on securing more midwives for the Danish maternity departments). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the House and at the request of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 169 on the convening of debates on the law of the public is referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for direct consideration. Are there any comments? It's agreed. With the agreement of the House and at the request of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 174 to allow children and young people under the age of 18 to change the law of the sexes is referred to the Committee on Gender Equality for direct consideration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100241	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100252	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100314	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to submit a draft law which extends the minimum limitation period for liability under the Ministerial Act to 8 years, however, to 10 years for matters covered by an investigation by a Commission of Inquiry. The proposers propose that the draft law be submitted before the end of this calendar year. If you are one of those who have a particular interest in the history of the creation of the law of ministerial accountability, then you may assume, as the most natural thing in the world, that I will reject this proposal, because when the draft law of ministerial accountability was debated in 1964, the Minister for Justice, Hans Hækkerup, was the Minister for Justice and during the negotiations it was discussed whether there should be a limitation period of, for example, a limitation period of time on the part of the Council of Ministers. Ten years and the then Minister for Justice Hækkerup struck down the proposal with a remark that it would be, and I quote: 'the pure cruelty of animals'. That was then more than half a century ago, and perhaps a little has happened since both the perception of what is cruelty to animals and the perception of ministerial responsibility. And I also understand that there is currently an interest in looking at the obsolescence rules of the law of ministerial responsibility. I also have no objection in principle to entering the debate, but it is the Government's view that we should look at the rules, get closer to them before we embark on changing them, and let me try to say a little about why I look at it that way. The statute of limitations of the Ministerial Responsibility Act follows the general rules of the Penal Code on limitation of time, which is, however, a significant difference, namely that the limitation period can never be less than five years, and that is to ensure that the limitation period cannot take place until new elections to the Folketing have been held, which allows a possible new majority in the Folketing to take a position on the matter. If you want to extend the period available to include, among other things: to examine a case in more detail and to allow the Danish Parliament to consider the indictment issue, one can imagine extending the limitation period itself. That is what the motion for a resolution proposes. But we can also consider, for example. to regulate when obsolescence occurs. In this way, the limitation period will continue to be only five years, but the time limit will be interrupted, or you can say paused, from the moment a particular circumstance occurs. It is precisely the question of linking interruptions to a certain relationship, for example. the setting-up of a commission of inquiry, the Committee of Inquiry referred to in their report of October 2018, and in this context the committee indicated, inter alia, that the question of whether a specific regulation of the limitation period for criminal proceedings should be introduced in the context of Commission investigations depends on a closer balance of conflicting legal considerations, and, following that, the Committee stated, inter alia, that: In the light of the terms of reference, no conclusion could be drawn on the issue and the statements made by the committee are relevant to ministers and to officials whose circumstances are being examined. In the view of the government, further consideration should be given to a particular challenge to the statute of limitations of the Ministerial Responsibility Act. Among other things: Is it important to consider whether there are or should be derived effects, that is to say, changes in the obsolescence of ministers, how is it to be contaminated in relation to officials? On the whole, the various considerations associated with the change which somehow connect with each other should be weighed. I think we should take the time necessary for that, because it is important that we take the right and well-considered decision when we change the basic rules of our parliamentary system. So the government is prepared to examine whether the limitation periods in the law of ministerial responsibility are appropriate, as they stand today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100751	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister by Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100756	Thank you for a good speech, and especially thank you for the quirky historical introduction, where it was mentioned here with cruelty to animals. What was the reason for this is that I would not be able to do so myself if I were to equate ministers with animals or whatever was in it. But if it was like something you had in the jargon then, like knee-high Cress and other quirky concepts, I should not be able to say anything about. But first of all I would like to thank the Minister for his support in looking at it in such a general way and changing it. The Minister said that the time needed to get to the bottom of this and find the right solution, and the willingness to find the right solution, seems to me to be positive, and the Radical Left would very much like to sign for that. That is why I would like to ask: what does the Minister see as a backside or a time limit for when we could come to the end of making a solution, and what does the Minister see as a timetable for us to get a closer look at this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100904	But I am not going to decide and organise the work of the Danish Parliament and the committee, but one could imagine that the committee took the matter and had a talk about what elements were to be looked at. It might be that this gave rise to questions to the Ministry and others as to what relevant points should be made over that we would certainly very much like to contribute and then to write a report which gave the deadline. When I said that we should not rush, it is because it is complicated, partly because an impeachment is not something that we seize every day. And it has to be said that apart from those who are on their way at the moment, this is not something that we are about to rush into.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100948	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326100950	I think that sounds very positive, and we will of course take that further in the committee work, so we will have this looked at carefully. It should not be cruelty to animals, but we must also learn from the cases that have been, in relation to whether it is the right limitation period, etc. I am delighted to receive support for this. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101011	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101019	Thank you, Minister. The Minister of Justice You are welcome). There are no more brief remarks to the Minister and can I have the Minister prepare the chair for the rapporteur's line? That would be appreciated. Thank you. That is how the rapporteur starts, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101041	Thank you. When you listen to the current Minister of Justice Hækkerup, the comparison with the then Minister of Justice Hækkerup and the picture of animal cruelty can actually occur, but not so much in relation to the issue of limitation periods in the law of ministerial responsibility. But now that you have the pleasure of having the present Minister of Justice Hækkerup in consultation, and we often do, the picture of animal cruelty can appear, but it's a completely different talk. What we are dealing with now is, of course, the issue of limitation periods in the law of ministerial responsibility, and my good fellow party member and clever Minister of Justice, Mr. Nick Hækkerup, has just like explained the party's and government's attitude and view of the matter, and there may be no reason for me to elaborate so much. This year, in February, which meant that the work had to be completed within a certain deadline. And it has to be said that it would have been sensible, since we are on this side of the work, if one had somehow had a function that made it paused. That was not the way the rules were, and it was also the track we played in, and it was quite open to everyone that the deadline was there. And that is why this motion for a resolution is relevant, and it makes sense for us to sit down and look at the possibilities both in a historical perspective, but not least in a forward-looking perspective, and I am sure that we can do so in good order. So formally, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here and with the deadline for tabling legislative proposals. But we look forward to the substantive and substantive discussion both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and in other contexts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101256	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. And thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur to speak. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101312	I would say to the previous rapporteur that I think there is still a small corner to be cleaned up up here! No, I'm sorry, it's very fine; it's fine. It's cruelty to animals!). I personally believe that if politicians were to be compared with something, it would not be with animals, but sometimes with children. But let's just leave it alone. First of all, on behalf of the Left, I would like to commend the Radical Left for having tabled the motion for a resolution. It has puzzled me and the Left for a long time that the rules governing limitation periods are as they are, and I must honestly admit that I first realised that there is a limitation period of five years, in connection with the setting-up of the Instructor's Commission, which has ended up reporting in a strange way, because it would prevent the limitation period from occurring, and that is why the minister in question, who was examined, has been reported here in January and only later on to officials. And that is a strange legal situation for the minister concerned as well as for the officials. But this is due to the rules that apply to obsolescence. I do not think, and we in the Left do not think, that it is right that there should be very specific rules for politicians and ministers. You are protected as a minister; you have access to legal advice; there are also guarantees of legal certainty that surround us. And being examined by a commission of inquiry is of course not nice.I myself am the object of an investigation by the Tax Commission, which examines the tax on dividends and a number of other things. It's not nice, but that's the way it is. But when you take the responsibility of being a minister, you must also take it upon yourself that you are held responsible for the decisions you have taken and that it is examined if there is a basis for that. This must be taken with an open forehead and not try to sweep under the carpet. It is therefore also the view of the Left that it is reasonable to look at the limitation periods in the law of ministerial responsibility. We cannot support the proposal as it stands, among other things. for some of the reasons mentioned by the Minister of Justice in his observations. Why have the boundaries just been chosen? There is this discussion about when the final date should be 10 years, should it be at a later date, and is there any connection with the other limitation periods in the legislation? We politicians and ministers who make major and important decisions should not have a higher level of protection than all other people in Denmark, but they should also have the level of protection we give to ordinary citizens, among other things. the rules on limitation periods. So we strongly support initiating an investigation and perhaps writing a report if we agree on it and getting the Minister for Justice started making the necessary changes to the legislation. Now I mentioned at the outset that I am one of a number of tax ministers with different party colors who are being examined in the Commission of Inquiry into Tax, and it is a little paradoxical that, compared to many of the things being examined, there has been an obsolescence, so we spend hundreds of millions of dollars to check whether anyone has done anything illegal officials, politicians, ministers, but in relation to many of the politicians who are being examined, the limitation period has occurred a long time ago. That doesn't make any sense. I was not aware of this when this committee of inquiry on tax was set up, which I myself helped to set up, and which the Left supported in my tax ministry, because I think it is fair that these things are being examined. But it is new knowledge with the limitation period that applies. A natural limitation on the limitation period would be to say that it is one or other number of years, and if a commission is set up a committee of inquiry, an ordinary commission of inquiry, then the limitation period is interrupted. That would logically make sense. How this is related to some other things in our obsolescence legislation, I think it is wise to get some people who, with all due respect, are smarter than all of us who are present in this room to make a professional offer. However, the political intentions and the political desire behind the motion for a resolution from the Radical Left fully share the Left's view, and we therefore hope that we will be able to find a solution to the problem that has been raised, namely that it is not reasonable for some strange, arbitrary limitation period for ministerial responsibility to be avoided, even if one is an object of being examined in a committee of inquiry. It is not fair and fair, and it must be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101755	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101800	I would both like to thank you for your speech and, above all, thank you for what I saw as support for the principles behind the resolution, which I can now hear there is broad support for in this Chamber. I think that leads us to look at these rules together and see how we can fit them in the most appropriate way. I agree with what the speaker said, namely that it is not certain that we should already adopt a certain number of years. One can also look at whether there are some other things that should be able to suspend a limitation period, etc., and I look forward very much to participating in this with the Left and other parties, in terms of how we can organise it even better, if possible, in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101843	My party does not agree with the Radical Left in everything, not at all with the foreign policy, but with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101853	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur will be given the floor to speak, and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326101913	This was an accelerated process when we recently discussed the impeachment case concerning Mrs Inger Støjberg ^ forced, because the limitation periods suddenly meant that if the red majority in the Folketing were to realise their dream of having the show process they had planned put into the lake, then they were suddenly behind schedule. It was not a very pretty course either for the Folketing or for those who ended up pressing the green buttons on that day. Therefore, there is really some sympathy for extending the limitation periods so as to prevent a similar course from taking place in the future. Also remembering the way in which the present government is, and the need that we in the Danish Parliament have to examine the executive power more zealously, we will have to discuss something in just a few minutes, it makes good sense to ensure that any circumstances do not go too fast. It would be a pity if, in a single error, the voters had to choose a red majority more, and that would have to evade Mrs Mette Frederiksen's impeachment, which she obviously deserves in the mink case. So we want to support this proposal and look forward to the committee reading, where hopefully we can get the details out too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102036	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide from the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102055	Thank you for the floor. We in the SF can back this proposal. I think, of course, that the great scandal in the case of the Instructor's Commission was that there was a majority sitting for a very long time blocking the investigation of the case. And it was more than usual to pull out the information that was needed to get the case solved. As you know, this meant that we came very close to the limitation period and, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also says, it gave a slightly accelerated and a little fast course. I should not have been able to deny that more time could have been spent. I think it is problematic that, because some people are in power and do not allow a case to be investigated, we can be at odds with the limitation period. And that is why extending it is a good proposal. Of course, politicians should not have better relations than the rest of the population, as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen also mentions. Of course, if you do something that is problematic, we must also be able to come for it. When we normally talk about extending limitation periods, we often talk about the fact that there is also some legal certainty in it. At a bar fight and violence in the night life, something can happen over time if the limitation period is really long. There may be witnesses who no longer remember the incident, and it may become unclear, and it may be difficult to judge the individual incident. However, I do think that when it comes to precisely matters relating to the law of ministerial responsibility, there is often a great deal of material. There are written things that you can assess and look at. So I am not really so worried about extending the limitation period in this area. As I said, we can support the proposal as it stands here. And I also hear that there is a willingness to look at it, so I hope that we can at least land some kind of report in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I look forward to further committee work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102301	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare for the next rapporteur? Thank you very much. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102330	Thank you very much and thank you to the Radical Left for making this proposal. Sometimes it is the case, when you have a broad consensus on something, that you can both be happy that a proposal is being put forward, but you can also regret a little that you did not come up with it yourself. That's how I feel today, anyway. It is not so awful long ago that we dealt with the case of impeachment against former Foreign Minister Mrs Inger Løjberg. In that process, I think we have learned a great deal, not least about the importance of there having to be plenty of time to deal with such cases. There can be no doubt in here that we, on the Enhedslisten side, did everything we could to make the process succeed, but also to make it happen according to the book, which I also think we came in line with. First of all, we asked Mrs Inger Løjberg more than 200 questions while she was Minister and we called for consultation. Finally, there was a new majority, and then we could set up a commission to investigate this, and then a majority came in here to set up an impeachment. That was actually what made us busy, so it was that there was a former majority in the parliament who decided to hold hands under a minister who lied to the Folketing and broke the law. After all, we just managed to do all that within the current deadlines, but I would say that it was just on a hanging hair, and I think that is actually proof enough in itself that there is a need to extend the limitation period. Because it shouldn't be the case that there can be no choice between, it shouldn't be the case that a majority can sit in here and decide that this minister likes them, so this minister can break the law, and this minister is allowed to pretend in the Folketing. It's no good in a democracy. That is why it can only be sensible for a new majority to simply be reached and for the new majority to be able to work and get to the bottom of matters that may now come. Unfortunately, I do not think we have seen the last case in which a minister comes into trouble with the Folketing. Unfortunately this happens sometimes, and there we have to protect our democracy more than we have to protect the individual minister, and that is why the Enhedslisten can warmly support this proposal from the Radical Left, which we rather wished we had come up with ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102600	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102625	In the Conservative People's Party, we have considered thoroughly whether we will support extending the limitation period for criminal liability under the Ministerial Responsibility Act. In fact, it should be a little tempting to agree to it for the sole reason that it will give a greater chance of bringing the Prime Minister to account for the decisions she made on the killing of all minks. It is a matter which, moreover, is being increasingly spawned for every day that goes on at the latest here, where the government does not want to hand over key documents. But that also indicates that we in the Conservative People's Party may not have much faith in the fact that neither Radicals, SF nor Enhedslisten will put the Prime Minister of an impeachment • nor even if a investigating commission should come to the conclusion that the Prime Minister broke the law with his illegal order. Then it would actually be very nice to have some extra years before the mink case takes place, but we do not, of course, practice politics in the Conservative People's Party, that is to say, even if I have to say that it is tempting. Nor do we think that specific commissions such as the Mink Commission or the Instructor's Commission should give rise to changes in the rules, because one should be careful to change such rules. When we are immediately concerned about changing the law, it is due to two factors. The first is that back in 1964 it was decided that it should be five years, because there should be an opportunity to ensure that an obsolescence cannot occur until new elections have taken place. And this is the example of the Instructor's Commission. There was a new election here before there was a majority in favour of a Commission inquiry. And then, with the new Commission investigation form, i.e. a committee of inquiry, it will be even quicker to carry out a Commission investigation, because then a study will only be carried out for a year. The second is that the longer the time passes, the harder it can be to remember circumstances and recall events. And therefore, the five-year limit chosen back in 1964 may well have been chosen as a kind of compromise to ensure that there have been new elections, but also to ensure that the former minister can still recall the course of events in his memory. For us, it is important for ministers to be accountable under the law of ministerial responsibility. We are happy to discuss whether we can improve the rules, and we would also like to have some decisions that have been considered. And, in fact, thank you for the statements that have been made in this Chamber today about taking this back in committee and having some discussions on whether we can actually improve the law in this area. We are happy to contribute to that, but the motion for a resolution as it stands here will not be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102911	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur, which is why I welcome the rapporteur for the proposers. I already do that now, because I do not see rapporteurs from the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. So welcome to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Kristian Hegaard, of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326102958	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you for the debate. When a large majority recently decided to press charges in a future impeachment case, it happened at the last minute before the expiry of the limitation period. Hopefully it will be at least 30 years before we again have to press charges in a new impeachment case, but it may therefore be appropriate to consider what experience has been gained already. A five-year obsolescence sounds like a long period of time, but if a political majority for three or four years deliberately fails to examine the actions of a minister and a committee of inquiry is not set up until a political majority has changed, and then one or more years are needed to work, then they will have five years to go on very quickly. That is why, with this resolution, the Radical Left has proposed raising the limitation period to eight years. In this way, then, we must go through and implement at least two parliamentary terms. At the same time, we propose that if a committee of inquiry is set up, the deadline may be suspended for a further two years. The Radical Left is flexible in terms of what a final model might look like, and that is why we thank you for the broad support that exists for us to find a new model together. Normally when you talk about limitation periods under the auspices of e.g. The penal code means the time the police have to find out if there is anything to be done in this particular case. However, the situation is slightly different with regard to the law of ministerial responsibility, because today, in practice, a narrow majority can actually delay a case by blocking investigations. This must not be the case, because the rule of law is neither red nor blue. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate and thank you for the support for the principles of the proposal and the intention that there should be a change so that we can move forward with a change of rules. In addition, I should like to welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326103213	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326103235	As you know, there is no minister in this area, it is Parliament's own responsibility, so I will listen carefully to the debate on this proposal. The debate is now open. The first rapporteur to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr Beazley. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326103309	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are now considering is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing, and it expires on a process that we have had in the Folketing and in the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure over the autumn, concluding with a political agreement in December, in which we decided to launch new forms of parliamentary inquiry. New means that we have developed the investigative committees we know today and decided to set up a proper investigative committee. A committee of inquiry shall then operate under the same legal conditions as a commission of inquiry, but shall differ in the way that it is of a shorter period of one year and that the suspension in the work of the Commission takes place directly to the Folketing. In the context of this work, it has also been decided to set up the first committee of inquiry in relation to the main cycle of the mink case. In this context, we also decided, in a unanimous Parliament, to set up a Review Committee to conduct future studies which have particular critical attention in the Folketing or in the public sector. This Committee will then be set up as a permanent committee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and will be entrusted with the task of examining these matters. As a new structure, there will also be a minority protection of the Folketing in this committee, so that in future what corresponds to a minimum of one third of the members of the Folketing can launch a feasibility study under the auspices of the Committee of Inquiry. A feasibility study may therefore be written questions to a minister, it may be consultation issues, it may be closed consultations in the form and with content, as we know it today from the trade committees here in the Folketing, but thus under the auspices of a committee of inquiry. On the basis of the preliminary examination, the Committee may, if it has a majority in favour, recommend to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that a proper investigation be carried out. There is still a lack of protection for minorities here, because that attitude can, of course, go to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure unless two thirds think it is a really bad idea. When you propose to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities may, on the basis of that recommendation, initiate one of several studies. A lawyer's study can be initiated based on written material; a professional expert's report can be initiated, which we have most recently used in connection with the Greens' Committee, which examined the handling of the first part of the course around the covid-19, also based on written material; a review commission can be set up, which we are now setting up in relation to mink; and a proper committee of inquiry can then be set up. The first three will then operate under the auspices of the Danish Parliament and under the auspices of the Committee of Inquiry, and the last, i.e. the Commission of Inquiry, will follow the course we know today for committees of inquiry. Once the investigations have been completed, the Committee will report back to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which will then reach a final conclusion on the basis of the work that has been done, typically in a report. This is in all its simplicity the reason for amending the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing so that this committee can be set up and the process, as I have described, can be carried out in the future. There is nothing new in discussing parliamentarianism, discussing the relationship between the Folketing and the government, control options, etc. This has now been summed up in the work that we completed before Christmas and which is now being implemented by this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I think, in a sense, that it is a unanimous Parliament that agrees on this and that, with respect for each other, it is also able to set up this committee and let it work in a way that also works in the spirit, namely that it is specially selected matters which should therefore be subject to this Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326103814	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326103835	Thank you, Mr President; thank you for the floor. The Socialist rapporteur has explained why we are dealing with this resolution today, which is basically about amending the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. Those who have to sit and listen to might think that the Rules are somewhat boring, but that is important, especially in a people's government. It must also be difficult to amend a Rules of Procedure. That's why we're going to the Assembly Hall with it. It is nice to see that all the parties of the Danish Parliament have shown up well, they can of course come; I hope so, because it is actually quite important. But this is sometimes the case with matters which are important but which are not so many likes in and so much publicity about; then there are some who seep from the Assembly hall. I think it's too bad, but that's the way it is. That must be the case when we get there. But back to the motion for a resolution: that is actually a reasonable historic change. Because under successive governments, I would say for decades, we have been discussing how to carry out effective parliamentary control and how to investigate governments. We're allowed to investigate. It's a very expensive way of investigating things. Typically, only what is legally right and wrong, i.e. whether illegal acts have been committed, is being investigated. And it has been the case, until we passed the law on investigative commissions, that it was the government that set up the commission so often to investigate itself, and sometimes even previous governments. It is a slightly unhealthy incentive structure, one might say. We have then jointly changed that and praise and recognition for it. Now we are doing something about the work here in the Danish Parliament and having a real committee of inquiry, which we also have in a number of other parliaments. It is not a committee that acts like the general committee of the Folketing, where we are enormously many members, and where those who are not rapporteurs typically only get scratched on the surface of the issues, but a permanent committee with a limited number of members who can meet in confidence and also behind closed doors can have ministers in consultation and clarify what is up and down. It will be an effective tool for the Folketing to exercise parliamentary control over the current government at all times, and it will increase confidence, I believe, both to changing current governments and also to the Folketing. We have found a good, objective way of doing so, where the Minister first enters a closed consultation and can explain himself. Then you can set up a lawyer's inquiry, a committee of inquiry or a professional investigation, and then we have a basis on which you can politically decide whether there is a basis for expressing criticism of a minister, whether there is a basis for demanding the resignation of a minister or whether there is a basis for further action. This is a good, sensible way of addressing the issue of parliamentary control. This is an effective and fair and fair way, including to the current government. I also believe that it will be possible to use the committee to investigate some of the conspiracy theories that are developing. At any rate, I have noted in my ministerial days that there are journalists, also who have won Cavling Prizes, who have written front pages of no one mentioned, no one forgot where you are producing something that is completely wrong and where you do not listen to the knowledge that has been gained from the authorities or from the minister in question, but like has been traced to the fact that there must be a great conspiracy theory: that someone has broken the law or that someone has deliberately done one thing or the other. That is sometimes the case; then it has to be investigated and then the Folketing has to conclude on it. But at other times it has been misunderstood, and there too, as a government, you will be able to clarify things, i.e. whether there is something in a case or whether there is nothing in a case. So I think it can be a really effective tool to get some of the conspiracy theories that can flourish in public, that the Folketing has a proper, objective, professional way of investigating a case, and then you can draw a conclusion. We have also introduced a new principle of minority protection, as Mr. Jeppe Bruus mentioned it. This is known from the European Parliament and other parliaments. It is a bit of a new move on the part of former member of the Radical Left, now outside party, Mr. Jens Rohde's initiative. We in the Left, of course, support that too. We are part of the agreement that has been made and it is quite fine that there is such a third minority protection. So a Rules of Procedure are boring, but it is important. We are discussing today and, after Easter, we are deciding on a very important change to the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing, which I believe can increase confidence in the Folketing, in governments and in civil servants, and we need that. That is why the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326104339	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The Rules of Procedure are the foundation, not boring, but the foundation. And I can see that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is also present for this debate. So now that nice and neat cleaning has been done and it is hereby approved, I can welcome Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326104409	Thank you, President. And it is certainly a good day both for the people's regime, that is to say for the legislature, but especially for the Folketing as the authority to control the executive. But I would like to say in all modesty that it is also a very good day for the Danish People's Party, because I think it has to be said that it is in particular Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard who, as chairman of the Danish Parliament, brought forward the idea of committees of inquiry to the Danish Parliament. And that is why, of course, we are delighted that today we can change the constitution of Parliament's work, if we can call it that, namely the Rules of Procedure, which will then have a completely new instrument. So far we have had committees of inquiry which refer to the government, that is to say to the executive. We shall now have a new form of commission, namely a committee of inquiry, which alone refers to the Folketing, and that is a good thing. Because in these years we are seeing how the government, i.e. the executive, is really trying to tighten its grip on power. You move officials directly into the decision-making bodies. There is a massive escalation in the ministries of people who work politically. In general, since this government took office, we have seen that we are really trying to strengthen our muscles. And then the Folketing must do the same if we are serious, that is, what we have to do under the Constitution, namely control of the government. And it's natural that we get this instrument. So we can rejoice at the fact that at least in the recent assembly of parliaments there have been forward - looking members who have been watching. Of course, the backdrop is not as divided as one might have hoped, all the time that the reason why we are now implementing this new form of inquiry in the Rules of Procedure is the so-called mink case. It is often the case that a specific case is needed to open its eyes to what is essential in principle. But whatever it is that leads to what is necessary in principle, we in the Danish People's Party support this instrument. And I do not know if it can be said that we are looking forward to starting work, because again: Ideally it should be the case that we will never need it; that the government always acts according to the wishes of the Danish Parliament. But sometimes it's awkward, so we're happy to have this tool for future enforcement of the constitution's obligation to control. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326104704	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is clear, and that is the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326104722	Thank you to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for making this proposal. We have, of course, been thinking for many years in the SF that we need a new form of parliamentary inquiry, and it has also been an important matter for us, and we think it is a good thing that it is finally coming into place. The reason for this is the whole matter of mink and the government's handling of it, which must also be investigated, and it has a broad majority in the Folketing behind it. As something new, a permanent committee of inquiry is set up here in the Folketing with the task of conducting investigations into cases which call for critical attention in the public or in the Folketing, and we think this is a very good idea in the SF. We very much welcome the fact that we have this new form of investigation, both because it can go faster, but also because the Folketing plays a much more central role in setting up such a study. All in all, we think that this is a tool that gives us a stronger Parliament with a better chance of controlling and investigating the government's exercise of power. In this way, we believe that this is a clear strengthening of our democracy, and we can of course support the proposal. And then I have promised to welcome from the Enhedslisten, who unfortunately cannot be here in the Chamber, and to say that they also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326104844	Many thanks to the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party and also to the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326104901	Thank you. We are on the radical side very pleased that we are now having a change in the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament, so that in future, when we, as Parliament, are going to examine the government's doings and the barn, we will have a tool that is, firstly, more flexible and, secondly, has its seat in the Folketing. We welcome the setting up of a Committee of Inquiry. We think it is good that we have achieved that there is a minority protection, so only a third of the members of the Folketing are needed to start an investigation. We think that with this, which we hope will be adopted with the support of the whole parliament, we will have better tools available. The tools we have had have been intricate and illogical. It has been difficult to set up a commission of inquiry. It has been the government that has had to investigate itself. It has been an expensive tool and inflexible. We are getting a considerable improvement on that now. It is, as has been said earlier, against a sad background. It is a specific matter that has enabled us to now be able to introduce these new procedures. But better late than never, and we look forward to both voting for this and working with the tool in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105011	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105017	It was really just a desire to express a direct thanks for a good cooperation. After all, it was Radicals who had the chair, and I myself had the Vice-President, in the committee that came up with this model. So much for a very, very good cooperation along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105034-2	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Fortunately, this has been an excellent cooperation which has led to this sensible situation that we are in now. Against a sad background, I think we have done well and that is an example of what the people's regime can do at its best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105051	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. As has been said, the Enhedslisten has welcomed the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105107	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating here is, of course, an expiry of the joint report which the Folketing made just before Christmas with all the parties. The B proposal amends the Parliament's Rules of Procedure so that it will be possible for the Folketing of its own motion to carry out a number of studies. These are both lawyers' studies, expert expert reports and investigative committees and also the entirely new form of investigation, that is to say examination committees. It is of course very good that it does not necessarily have to be held in a ministry, but now it can actually also be held in the Folketing. Another major difference in this motion for a resolution is the setting up of a committee of inquiry which can, of course, examine matters which call for critical attention. We welcome this and we are now making a new tool. It's gonna be exciting to use. It may happen that we will have to adjust along the way. That's the way it is when you enter a new country. When Radicals were up here, I chose to speak to give special thanks. There is no doubt that the Radical Left was a major part of the engine for this to be done at all, but I would really like to extend that thanks to the rest of Parliament's parties. Sometimes, as a member of parliament, it would be desirable for people to be taken into account in some of these discussions. Because this is a really fine example of when the people are best. Because as a decision is being made that we should now do these new forms of investigation, it is actually a really good cooperation across the whole of the Folketing, which means that we will end up having the motion for a resolution that we are debating today. So from here, I just want to say thank you to both the process and to the content. We expect a great deal from the new committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105306	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. The rapporteur for the new citizens is not present in the Chamber because of illness, and I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance. That is why no one else has asked for the floor. I note that the debate is closed. Thanks for a really nice treatment. I should like to ask whether there is any further referral to committee. As this is not the case, I shall pass the proposal directly on to the second and last reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105349	Then I speak very slowly because we are in the situation that we have reached the next point. That is point No. 4 and this is the first reading of Bill No. L 190. This is a proposal made by the Minister for Defence, and when it comes to dealing with it in the Assembly Chamber, the Minister for Defence must be present, and I do not see the Minister for Defence. I know there's been a call from the Secretary of Defense. I hear she's on her way in three minutes. It can be a little difficult to stand and entertain for 3 minutes. An Easter hunt in the Assembly Hall may not be appropriate despite the desire for a peaceful Easter. I see no alternative but to postpone the sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105515	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. It's Mrs. Annette Lind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105546	Thank you, President. It is the case that the bill we are considering today is the telecommunications law. It includes critical parts of both the 5G, 4G, 3G and 2G mobile network and future technologies and landlines. We've had a really, really good process in connection with this bill. There have been a great many discussions before we come to the Chamber today, and I would like to commend the Minister for that. I will allow the Minister to comment on the amendments to this bill. That is why I would like to tell you what the draft law contains. It contains supplier safety in the critical infrastructures, which are specifically concerned with Denmark's safety. The technological developments which are taking place in these years at a rapid pace create great value for our society, but it also creates risks. When it comes to the kind of ideas about digitalization, we may have been a little too naive a little too long, so this bill is perfectly appropriate right now. Denmark is one of the most digitised countries, for both authorities, companies and citizens are deeply dependent on a secure and well-functioning telecommunications infrastructure. Our dependence on infrastructure will only increase with digital development, and so will the risk to our telecommunications infrastructure. There is also a risk that the Danish state will be exploited in connection with espionage, sabotage or blackmail. The security policy situation can change very quickly, and that is why we must be at the forefront. We'll make sure of that with the bill here. Right now, we are very vulnerable and we need to strengthen the security of our telecommunications infrastructure. We must ensure that companies that either provide critical telecommunications equipment or operate the telecommunications network use only reliable suppliers. As it is today, our authorities cannot prevent a telecommunications provider from entering into a supply agreement which is considered to be a threat to the security of the state. We can't live with that vulnerability. The bill here applies to companies with over 5,000 private customers and 500 government customers. With the bill we are discussing today, the government wants to allow the telecommunications authorities to prohibit specific supply agreements relating to the critical infrastructure if the agreements are deemed to pose a safety risk. The assessment will be carried out on the basis of objective criteria such as: whether a given supplier has previously engaged in espionage or sabotage in other countries or where the supplier may be required to engage in espionage or sabotage on behalf of the home Member State. But it is important for me to say that this bill is not aimed at particular suppliers or particular countries. If the Cybersecurity Centre considers that a specific agreement would pose a threat to the security of the State, a ban may be imposed on the agreement. The Cybersecurity Centre has good cooperation with telecommunications providers, and the aim is, of course, that authorities and providers can jointly address future security threats. The bill has been created on the basis of a very, very close dialogue between the government, the Centre for Cybersecurity, the telecommunications industry and the parties of the Folketing. I believe that the constructive, inclusive process is a positive one in the drafting of the final legislative proposal. But the Minister will go into this further in his speech. With this bill, an important step will be taken to ensure a robust telecommunications infrastructure and thus protect Denmark from, among other things. espionage, sabotage, breakdown of community critical functions or pressure from foreign states during conflicts. This will strengthen our critical infrastructure for the benefit of the entire country's security. Social democracy supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326105949	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur, and I should like to welcome the next rapporteur. That is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326110010	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Our society is becoming more and more digital, and especially at this time, as a result of the corona crisis, we have all felt how dependent we are on a strong digital infrastructure. Recently I read an article that several Danish top executives fear cyberattacks more than a pandemic and climate change. That doesn't say a word. It is therefore vital that we safeguard the digital security of Danish citizens, institutions and companies. That is why we in the Left are pleased that L 190 aims to ensure a robust telecommunications infrastructure and thereby protect Denmark from, among other things. espionage, sabotage and breakdown of community critical functions. We are positive about this. It is a proposal that allows the Cybersecurity Centre to prohibit specific supply agreements and components of our networks if they are considered to pose a threat to the security of the state. It is a proposal which has also been much debated since it was submitted for consultation, and it speaks its own language, that the lot of consultation answers is thicker than the legislative proposal itself. We in the Left have also had some reservations about whether we had found the right balance between legal certainty and security. Therefore, we very much welcome the fact that, in the light of the dialogue, the Minister has chosen to table three amendments which strengthen legal certainty without us feeling that I am also pleased with the Minister's assessment of this compromise with regard to the safety of the bill, so thank you for that to the Minister. There are still a few concerns that we will try to get a little bit smarter at the committee stage, but overall we are very pleased with the dialogue we have had and that we have found a slightly better balance in relation to these concerns, as I said, without compromising on safety, and therefore we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326110158	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Could the rapporteur please prepare the platform for the next rapporteur to come to the floor? That's very nice, thank you. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326110219	Our defense rapporteur, sir. Søren Espersen, is prevented today, so I am giving a meeting instead of the rapporteur. On behalf of him and my party, I shall read out the following: I would like to commend the government for continuing to pay full attention to this important issue. That is a position, I think, shared by the whole circle of defence committees. Developments in this area are running at a rapid pace, and it is about being up top if we are not to end up being controlled, harassed or supervised by people, movements or countries that we certainly do not want near the kingdom of Denmark and our Western allies. You can hear that it is Søren who has written it, isn't it? With the orientations we have received in the conciliation circle, it is the view of the Danish People's Party that the Cybersecurity Centre, supported by our intelligence services, is doing a truly excellent job. The centre has done a great deal to get relevant companies on board, and it now seems to have been very successful. As has been said, Denmark is among the countries which are very advanced in terms of technological development, which unfortunately also makes us vulnerable. It has not only Denmark, but the whole kingdom to such an extent felt in recent years with the strenuous attempts by foreign powers to espionage and pressure against Denmark or against individuals. For the centre, it is not easy to keep an eye on companies that provide critical telecommunications equipment or services or operate the infrastructure of the providers, but as the draft law indicates, these companies can pose a very serious threat to themselves. All of this is why the government will have the legal basis in order if you have to close individual companies out of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland if the Center for Cybersecurity has a strong, well-founded suspicion of raiding. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a very good idea, which is why we warmly support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326110429	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see a rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party in the Chamber, so I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326110450	Thank you very much, President. Like the other parties, we can also support this bill. But I cannot help saying that I think it has been difficult to follow the origins, because it is always a difficult balance between looking after Denmark and looking after, one can say, our infrastructure, the critical infrastructure that we all want to do, which means that we are giving the state more and more powers, in this case the Cybersecurity Centre, and I do not see that there is much else to do. However, it is clear that the companies that have to be regulated here and which are subject to quite severe, it must be said, the risks of being, if you may say, heavily regulated by the state are also, of course, entitled to legal certainty. And that is the dilemma between security and legal certainty, which I find difficult often when we conduct these discussions and negotiations and end up with a result. I would like to sign that the government has accepted some of our proposals to correct that balance by tabling three amendments to the law, which will draw it a little towards greater legal certainty for the telecommunications industry here. It is possible that more can be done, and I hope that the Minister will take part in continuing the dialogue with the industry, because it is our concern that everyone is comfortable with this. We may not be able to achieve this, because we cannot make this kind of legislation without having some pretty tough means to use, but it will be our entrance that we have to go as far as we possibly can to meet the concerns of the telecommunications industry. The aim is not to replace one problem with another, but that there has been a need for legislation in this area is beyond doubt for us. The fact that we have come a long way in finding a model in which we can all be in is also clear, and I hope that we can pull it together in the final piece.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326110652	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And the rapporteur can prepare the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Bruno Jerup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326110713	Thank you. The Enhedslisten also supports this bill on supplier safety in the critical telecommunications infrastructure. There are, of course, some issues in the draft law that must be taken into account, as the radical rapporteur has also mentioned. One of the problems we can see is whether the Cybersecurity Centre has sufficient technical competence to actually implement this. It is somewhat unclear from the draft law and from the comments in which the technical competence to actually arrange to investigate both the suppliers' software, their hardware and their support, and what else may be, which requires a great deal of technical professional insight, remains. So we can risk that there is a gap there in the possibility of actually making this act effectively as an instrument. But the starting point is that we think it is OK to do so. It should also be borne in mind that it is not the suppliers themselves that we are able to hit. What you do with this legislation is you hit the providers if that's how they use suppliers we don't want them to use. We must also bear that in mind. And some of what was introduced in the original bill as a proposal for a sanction were fines and such things, but in this it has been changed to allow the Centre for Cybersecurity to dedicate members of the provider's management. That is quite fine for us, but we are just thinking about how it will work in practice when it comes to doing so. How is it possible to arrange for the management of some provider? This may well be done, but I am a little excited to see how we will actually manage that sanction when we come to apply the law in practice. The Minister has told us that some amendments would be tabled at the request of the Left and the Radical Left. Now we have not seen the concrete proposals, but we have only seen them in the heading form, but as a starting point we also support the changes there. It is also interesting that we are now getting an annual report from the Cybersecurity Centre on how many cases we have had, which means that we will not be able to keep track of when something is going on, but we will get a report afterwards on how many there have been. It will be interesting to see how many cases you really expect there to be. Are we talking about 1 a year, or are we talking about 50? I think that is a little interesting too, which is why I also agree that it is good that there should be a change in the law that this law should be reviewed after a period, so that we look at it again. We are putting in place a tool that we do not really have a clear sense of how much is to be used. It is certainly an uncertainty that may exist, but that is why it is still the right way to go. Then I would like to make another small comment. We always write at the end of such laws here that they don't apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and they don't, so it's a tradition, but it may be that in this context it's not very practical that they don't apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, because then different providers can, etc. of course use the Faroe Islands and Greenland as a back door to come in. In any case, this is an issue that I think should be considered. Then there is the question of who it can hit and there is no particular country, but it says that it is aimed at countries with which we do not have a security agreement. I read it in such a way that it means that, for example, if it is so, that country. Is the United States, or what do I know, another NATO country, perhaps, that then this law is not intended to be applied? Or how is that supposed to be? After all, we have historical experience that the United States and the CIA also plant spyware and various other things in our equipment, so we certainly have a problem there too. But perhaps the Minister can say what the intention is there. Of course, when we start things like this, there are always a lot of problems, but we believe that the problem that we are trying to solve is real and that it is necessary to resolve it, and that is why we support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111254	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111300	Thank you very much. In my rapporteur's speech, I said that I think we have been a little too naive for a little too long, and that is why it is completely up to us to decide on these things right now. It is the case that the Cybersecurity Centre already has the authority for information and security and preparedness in the area of telecommunications. The rapporteur said he was a little concerned about whether the Cybersecurity Centre had the technical knowledge to be able to do these things. I believe that the Centre for Cybersecurity has a special knowledge of both business and teletechnical issues. If it is the case that the rapporteur believes that they are not technically skilled enough to do this, then who should we put in place for the Cyber Safety Centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111348	That is a good question, but what we are considering is whether we should make a genuine technical committee which had the technical competence. It is, of course, the case that the Cyber Security Centre is very much an instrument that, like legal, politically, goes in and does some things. It could be done that you had a genuine technical committee, which was, of course, under the Cybersecurity Centre, so we had the certainty of having sufficient competence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111424	Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111427	In my opinion, this is not a good solution. It is the case that technical knowledge must be linked to business knowledge, and that is why the Cybersecurity Centre is the right place to place it here, in my opinion. Is it the case that the rapporteur recognizes that they have an after-business knowledge, that they have a technical knowledge when it comes, as in this case, to state security? The state was attacked. Companies were attacked every day. Citizens were attacked every day. It's going to have to be somewhere where there's a central authority, and that's the Cybersecurity Center. Does the rapporteur therefore not recognise that we have to have it somewhere and that what is then stated in the amendments is that the Minister for Defence must have critical supervision in relation to this? Who else could do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111520	I do not dispute that it should be the Cybersecurity Centre that has the task. That is not my objection. My only objection is whether the Centre for Cybersecurity, although they have the task of authority here, also has sufficient technical knowledge and insight that they can actually do this work so that it doesn't come into being a little by chance. It has also been mentioned in the comments that if there is a newspaper talk about somebody doing something, it can be used as a basis for actually deciding that a particular supplier should not be on the market. It cannot, of course, be the only thing to decide, but the fact that there is the possibility that a newspaper talk could be enough for the Cybersecurity Centre to agree to say that something must be stopped, I think could be a problem if it is the case that you simply do not have the technical knowledge to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111629	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111640	Thank you very much. Overall, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill as we recognise that there is a high level of threat to cyberespionage against the telecommunications sector in Denmark. We are one of the world's most digitised societies, and that is a good thing; it is good that our children can go to school from home at the moment, and it is good that Danish companies have employees who can work from home. And electronic communication is, of course, very, very much one of the pillars that makes our society stick together. This also means that we are very much dependent on a strong and secure telecommunications infrastructure. However, it is important that we ensure a thorough committee procedure which highlights some of the concerns raised by authorities and organisations in this area. In this context, some of the players point out that it would be problematic if such intrusive measures as banning the conclusion of contracts by telecommunications operators with a specific supplier were to be based solely on media coverage, which one of the provisions envisages. However, in the past, the Secretary of Defense has also explained that such a decision will not only be based on media coverage but will be one of several requirements. That concern again relates to the clarity of the wording of the draft law, and we must, of course, pay particular attention to this in committee. Having said that, I must acknowledge that the briefings we have received recently from the Cybersecurity Centre have given me at least a very, very high degree of confidence in their abilities and skills. This bill will not be 100% perfect, as my good and talented colleague Martin Lidegaard said earlier, but it will be as close as we can get to it. And with these words, the Conservative People's Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111833	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. And since there is no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance and new citizens have failed, I can give the floor to the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326111854	I would like to thank you for your contributions during the discussion of the draft law, and I would also like to thank you for the constructive consultation responses from the telecommunications industry during the public hearing and for the good political discussions that have taken place in this process with the parties of the Folketing. Denmark is one of the world's most digitised countries, and that is why we are totally dependent on having a well-functioning and secure infrastructure, which is why it is also incredibly important that the safety of the telecommunications infrastructure is at its top. We are facing a particular threat because there are a number of private companies that have access to the key parts of our telecommunications network. They have access either because they supply the technical equipment used in the telecommunications network or because they are responsible for the operation of the telecommunications network. But as a society, we are very vulnerable if a supplier uses access to the telecommunications network to engage in espionage and sabotage. Today, our authorities cannot prevent a telecommunications provider from entering into a supply agreement that the authorities have assessed would be a threat to the security of the state, and that makes us vulnerable. So with the bill we are discussing here today, the Cybersecurity Centre will have the opportunity to ban supply agreements within the critical telecommunications infrastructure, this if the Centre considers that a specific agreement will pose a threat to the security of the state, and then a ban on the agreement could be imposed. When the Cyber Security Centre is to assess whether a ban should be imposed, this will be done on the basis of a number of objective criteria. An agreement, for example, will: may be prohibited if a supplier has previously engaged in espionage or sabotage in other countries or if the law of the supplier's home Member State allows the supplier to exercise espionage or sabotage on behalf of the home Member State. I would like to emphasise that the draft law does not prohibit specific suppliers or suppliers from specific countries. It is a question of assessing whether the specific agreement constitutes a threat to the security of the state, and in that case it will be possible to ban the agreement. Today, the Centre for Cybersecurity has a good and close dialogue with the telecommunications providers. This dialogue must, of course, continue and the objective will continue to be that the centre and the telecommunications providers will, in agreement, deal with the security threats identified. But it is also crucial that we have the tools to deal with situations where a telecommunications provider chooses not to follow the center's advice, and with the bill here the Center for Cybersecurity gets the tools. This will make our critical infrastructure safer and it is important. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that I am committed to the continuation of the good cooperation that exists today between telecommunications providers and Cybersecurity Centre. Through the dialogue with the telecommunications industry and our political discussions on the legislative proposal, there has been a desire to amend the legislative proposal on certain points. That is why an amendment will also be tabled so that it will be explicitly stated in the legislative text that the Cybersecurity Centre will have to carry out a party consultation and justify prohibition decisions as far as possible. Similarly, it will appear from the legal text that the Centre will have to consult relevant specialist authorities before a prohibition is decided, and then it will be stated in the legal text that the law will have to be evaluated after 3 years and that the evaluation will have to be sent to the Folketing. The three changes are the result of the constructive dialogue that has taken place with the industry and with Parliament's parties around the bill, and this is a dialogue that I very much appreciate and which is extremely important in relation to this bill, where the aim is to strengthen Denmark's security. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law, and I think that a number of relevant questions have been raised here at first reading, which I am of course available to answer in the process that is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326112312	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326112319	I do not know whether this is a brief comment to the Minister, but I can just say that I have received a text from the SF saying that they naturally also support the proposal. They're sorry they couldn't be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326112329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326112333	But there can be many new parliamentary cooperation during such a first reading. It is very important for this bill that there is broad parliamentary support, so I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326112343	So, thank you to the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326112429	The Minister for Health is present and the rapporteur for the proposers is also present in very, very short time. I know that the rapporteur for the proposers has an office on the third floor of this Parliament in what is referred to as Siberia. And Siberia is very, very far away, so I assume that at this moment the rapporteur is running down the stairs, and there is also a high-speed nod from the officers, so that I am not in a situation where I have to postpone. That is not necessary either, because it is the Conservative People's Party that has tabled it here and, as there are members of the Conservative People's Party in the Chamber, I would say that we are starting the debate here. And if that is okay with the Minister for Health, then I will start the debate as the Conservative People's Party is present in the Chamber and the rapporteur for the proposers is going down the stairs. The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326112602	Thank you very much for that, President. Yes, let us get to work on this very good proposal, which is about a real issue. It is a proposal from the Conservatives in particular, and it calls for the government to work to combat the spread of what is known in the general public as sloppy clinics. I would say that I think we should emphasise that there is transparency in relation to something as important as citizens' medical choices. Nor am I myself in favour of practising doctors acting as strawmen who own outer numbers without having a primary activity in one of the clinics that they own. That is why I have to say that we can support the intention of the proposal. It is therefore necessary to work to combat the spread of sloppy clinics, which is why we are also open to examining the extent of the challenges posed by these clinics, which are called partnership clinics, and to discuss possible solutions with the parliamentary parties. I can therefore say that I would like to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss various options, including a solution that ensures that the owner doctor has his primary activity in one of the clinics that he owns, so that the concept of a man of straws is abolished. We know from studies that there are a number of specialists in general medicine who would like to work in general practice but who do not want to do all the tasks of running a general practice clinic and who do not want to go in and be self-employed. We must also take them along, and it would be a pity if we were to create three new problems in order to solve this problem, which makes it more difficult for doctors in those areas in Denmark where it is already difficult to have doctors. So it has to be done wisely, and I think the best forum to do that is if we bring together the Parliamentary health rapporteurs for a meeting where we review what we can actually do to get the problem and do something about it without throwing the baby out with the bathing water and doing all sorts of things that would be problematic. So we must do something about straw-man clinics, but at the same time do not prevent general practice from being dynamic too, and that it should not be locked in a framework that will mean, in fact, that some of the particularly newly trained doctors, whom we really need in Denmark during this time, cannot see themselves in the forms of working life that we then make available to them. That is why it is a proposal that I think we can benefit from discussing. Especially at a time when we need practitioners, it is important that what we do is right. Because I think it is positive that there are different types of clinics, and within the existing legislation and agreement it should not be possible to counter the fact that we have doctors all around Denmark, and that doctors also have different wishes for a working life and how to organise one. The government's assessment is that partnership clinics and also other forms of organisation can contribute to medical coverage in areas where it is difficult to get a general practitioner to settle down. And a partnership clinic can, for example. be a partnership in which the doctor carries out patient care and a private company is responsible for the administration. It is not always that, if you want to be a doctor, you burn enormously for administration, perhaps it is more than rarity than vice versa, and that means that if someone can make such a model, then I think it would only be wise and fine that it can continue and spread it to the extent that it is needed. This will then mean that this private company is responsible for some of the non-health professional tasks involved in running a general practice clinic: IT systems, pay, recruitment and such things. A strawman clinic is a privately run clinic where the outside number is owned by a doctor who is never present in the clinic and who is not present in any of the clinics as there are. I am not in favour of this, but again: let us get this fence properly in, so that, while we are doing away with sloppy clinics, we are not going to put a brake on the partnerships between doctors and private companies, which in fact today actually contribute to medical coverage in several parts of the country. A little history of the case: It has its origins in 2013, when the Folketing, with a actually fairly broad majority, was the parties Social Democracy, the Left, Radical Left and the SF, decided to give practitioners the opportunity to own up to 6 outer numbers. And I think that in itself was a wise decision. After all, the aim of the draft law, which at that time also provided opportunities for tender and regional clinics, was precisely to improve the ability of the regions, as a responsible authority, to fulfil the obligation to offer all citizens effective and high-quality access to general medical care. And medical coverage was also high on the agenda in 2013, and it is still gone, so it has to be said that this proposal has not been something that has in any way solved all the problems, and I think someone said that at the time. We must note that the problem still exists. Figures from January 2021 show that 56 per cent. of the practitioners had closed to the entry of new patients, and this is an increase from 40%. in 2014. The government is concerned that all Danes in all parts of the country have access to a general practitioner, and I have not heard any parties say that they are against it; on the contrary, let us work together to find solutions to it. I still believe that it should be the case that our regions should continue to have different opportunities, as a responsible authority, to fulfil the obligation to offer all citizens access to general medical care in an effective and high quality manner. So we still want our regions to be able to take advantage of the opportunity to be more flexible in their approach to things. But let's get it done in a way that we get the problem of these straw-man clinics and get done with that part of it without destroying the parts that actually work. So to conclude, I would like to repeat that I fully support the intention of this proposal, and I would like to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss various options, including a solution that ensures that the owner doctor has his primary activity in one of these clinics that he owns. I would like to say that we are preparing for discussions with the parliamentary rapporteurs, and then we will have to see if it is possible to find a solution to this problem. However, I also look forward to hearing the debate here at first reading, in relation to where the parties stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113338	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113343	Thank you, Minister. In fact, I agree with the Minister about everything the Minister says. Actually, I'm not quite sure if the thing about sloppy clinics is really a strawman. I understand that there are some who believe that this is a significant development. I simply have the merit of seeing how significant this development really is. But that's not what I wanted to entertain the Minister with. I would like to ask the Minister something. At the moment, there are such report texts running around among the rapporteurs. For the curious public, it is really a text that says something about whether we can come together on some common position on this issue. There's been a couple of lyrics running around. In the latest text we have received, the Social Democrat rapporteur is proposing that we should have a broader discussion of partnership clinics. So I would just be somewhat nervous about that, that is, that we start to poke our heads into that gap, so it will be such a very wide discussion of whether you think partnership clinics are generally a good idea. Could one insist that this, whether or not there is a problem with straw-man clinics, was about that, in other words about the matter of presence? I would like to ask the Minister that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113459	Yeah, I think that sounds smart. I'll tell you what. What we have now is also called a debate, so it is actually a debate we have here in Parliament. So my approach to the discussions with the parties will be precisely to get the issue covered, but also to get the idea figured out and mapped out to what extent we have a problem. To the extent that it is there and we can solve it, we must solve that problem without ending the possibility that a general practitioner has more outer numbers. Because I don't think there's any need to stop doing that. On the contrary, I think there are a number of positive elements in that. The same applies to other forms of partnership, which I mentioned just now in my speech, where you get help from private companies for office things that you as a doctor may not always be passionate about when you are fully trained. And we so want the graduates to come out and get a practice somewhere. There's gonna be different kinds of it so they can do that job. I think it is important that we do not start this whole thing and restrict it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113603	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113606	I think that's super fine. Could we not then confirm each other that this is, like it, what is also apparent from the text that we finally agree on, that is to say that this is what we are discussing? So, we need to look at the phenomenon of straw-man clinics in relation to that of presence or not presence in the clinics. This is like what we are concentrating on, and not a very broad discussion of six outer numbers and partnership clinics and the whole thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113634	Well, let us confirm each other that this must be what is on the agenda. That's what this proposal is about. So I guess it makes the best sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113642	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113647	Thank you. In fact, I would like to thank both Conservatives for presenting the proposal, but also the Minister for the speech and the announcement that some discussions should be convened on how we are doing it here. We must ensure that we have enough doctors, but I also think that the most important thing is to ensure that we continue to have the opportunity to create this close and coherent healthcare system. And apparently it's become a Gordian knot. If we look at the dentist area, for example, we know the strawman clinic, where the goal suddenly becomes to demand more and more customers, so more and more paradentosis treatments, more and more fillings. And that is one of the places where it is really difficult for the citizens themselves to keep track of it. So it is just for the Minister to be able to say whether or not we should also have looked at how to ensure incentives to keep people away from the general practitioner, that is to say, to prevent more and more citizens from having to receive more and more treatment, rather than having to demand more and more treatment in isolation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113753	Yeah, we definitely do. I do not know whether it can be included in this proposal and precisely this work, but I fully agree that all incentives and all structures in health care must be about and to a much greater extent than today must be turned towards early and preventive action. We are not good enough for that yet, and I also believe that, to be honest, we have to say that the rapporteur is pointing out a number of points in particular: there are structures which actually produce the opposite result. And then we end up late and not getting enough prevention. So I fully agree with that. Whether or not it should be in the context of this, I have some doubts, so let's think about it. However, in the further discussion of how to deal with inequalities in health, and of other very important issues, prevention is clearly what is crucial. And how do we ensure that there are some who lift that responsibility and that there are also incentives to shoulder that responsibility? That's a very good point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113857	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113901	Thank you to the Minister for his speech and thank you for the kindness that is also in relation to our proposal. I can't help but dwell a little bit on this with the six outside numbers. For continuity, which is so important for patients, a doctor with six outer numbers cannot do this per year. It's automatic, you know. So isn't the Minister worried that continuity will be compromised when you have the possibility of having the six outer numbers that we have seen have been used here in recent years? From 2013 it was not the big issue at all, but we have seen here lately that there are doctors who now have six outside numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326113949	Yes, I agree, and studies show that the continuity of the relationship between the patient and the practitioner has an impact on patient satisfaction and quality. We must also be honest and say that today we have many practitioners in PLO clinics, in other words, organized in medical houses with other practitioners, and that is only positive, because it means that it is easier to have time and they can spar professionally with each other. It also means that when I, as a patient, call our doctor about my children or myself, it is not always the same doctor we see, because there are more doctors in the medical center where we are, and that is how it has been in recent years. I think it is important that we do not make this a problem. In fact, it can be a strength for professionalism and for the maintenance of doctors and for the attraction to not least newly trained doctors that there is a professional sparring and some colleagues in this medical center.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114051	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114055	Now the Minister mentioned this problem with if there are young newly trained doctors who may not know if they are quite a hundred percent ready to take over a practice and that they may as well need to sniff out a little more about it. Could it not be solved simply by saying that it is okay that, in the case of generational change and that of trying it out, one has the opportunity to hire the young doctors in practice, rather than the doctor simply having up to six outer numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114126	It may well be that some solutions can be found and let us try to discuss them. But I cannot take a stand on such a proposal and what it would have of opportunities. But it is certainly true that the generational problem is really significant and a large part of the problem, and if we do not succeed in solving that problem, no matter how many doctors we get trained, we simply do not get those doctors out into Denmark where we need them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114155	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114201	Thank you, and thank you, the Minister, for not least the understanding of the problem here. There is no doubt that we in the Enhedslist might like to take the discussion, as Mr. Martin Geertsen traveled before, i.e. whether it is necessary to keep the number of outer numbers to that extent. However, even if we park that discussion, I would just like to be sure that when we start doing something few to prevent straw-man clinics and also prevent the increasing inequalities in health that this causes, because you have poor contact with your general practitioner or the general practitioner, we have a bad feeling for your individual patients that we do enough. And to say that you just have to have your primary function in one clinic doesn't prevent me from doing that, and maybe the minister can confirm that at first you're a strawman for five other clinics. So we have to make sure that you also have a responsibility for the other five external numbers you might have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114258	Practitioners have the opportunity to enter into cooperation and partnerships with others. private companies, but the responsibility for complying with the medical agreement lies with the doctor who owns the external number. If you then go ahead and say whether it is not enough and sensible that the doctor who owns the outer numbers should be present in one of the places, then I think that would be wise, because then you will be doing exactly that. But if you say the opposite, and that is what I hear the question a little, as if you should demand that the doctor be present everywhere continuously, then we do not have continuity, because then that doctor will have to be present in many different places. With all the patients a doctor has, it's hard enough even to remember them and get to know their personal history and all these things here. If you imagine that the same thing could happen to all the different clinics, then I think it would almost be an impossibility so I would not recommend that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114358	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114400	No, fortunately, there are also some intermediate ways. For example, the organization of practitioners suggests that they still help to hire and have a daily employer's responsibility towards the doctors who then work in the other clinics. After all, being responsible for the agreement on paper and never being present necessarily and so few shared their time over six different places and thus perhaps not even being present in some places is a middle way between them. So I just want to make sure that when we now agree that it is the straw-man clinics we want to combat, that the minister also has a position that it might well be that there should be a little more than just that one has one's primary activity in one of the clinics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114440	But let us try to have a discussion on it, namely on what it is that needs to be done. When I read about straw-man clinics in the media and about the fact that some clinics don't even have medical facilities anywhere, and that there are companies that buy or somehow take over these outside numbers and completely without contact with the doctor then drives them, at least that's not what the intention is, so we have to do away with that. So how to ensure that it becomes the doctor who is responsible for complying with these agreements etc. and that the doctor is present in one of the places is what I think the debate should be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114517	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114520	Thank you very much. Now the Minister himself mentioned 2013 when this arrangement had just been made, but those who remember also remember 2013 as the year when the government of that time made a legislative action that was supported by other parties except the Conservative and Danish People's Party. Looking back at that time, you can see that many of the doctors who were there at that time simply laid down their clinics; they dropped their outside number and sold it. And when you talk to doctors today, there are, in fact, many of them who have not yet recovered from 2013 when you actually went in with a legislative action and just changed many things, of which this is one of them. The only thing we have heard from the government and from the Minister for Health is that you now want to make a duty, so I think that is the way you want to go every time we talk about general practice: that you force something over the heads of doctors and believe that in this way you can get more people into general practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114621	No, it's not the only thing this government has done. We have, for example. In the first two years of economic agreements, funds were set aside to train more doctors, which is also part of the problem. And then it's quite correct that we've come to the polls that this medical coverage problem needs to be resolved. Also said openly: we are ready to do whatever it takes to resolve it. One of the elements we still have in front of us is a duty of service, which we have said we must discuss with the relevant parties. I look forward to doing so, and I have also noted that there is not much joy among doctors on the issue of duty. So it is not necessarily going to be an easy discussion, but nevertheless I stand by it. I also believe that we cannot as a government, but also as a Parliament, look the Danes back in the eyes of the next parliamentary elections, if we have this as a huge problem that is unresolved. After all, we have to solve the problem, even if it gives rise to some hugging.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114723	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114725	I do not think the Minister is listening, even to the doctors who are out there. These are the doctors we must try to preserve, because we know that the age of many general practitioners is quite high. In 2013 they warned that it would go badly if you did that legislative action, and it did. Have you not learned anything from it when you come and once again only want to do what you think looks very good on paper, even though the doctors say it will get fewer doctors out there and that we will have an even bigger problem? Wouldn't you take that contact and solve it with the doctors instead of solving it on your desk?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114805	Yes, we will make contact and do what we can to solve it with the doctors. We have also said this all the time: that of course we do not dictate anything, but that we have to negotiate it and agree to lift it here. I have also taken note of that, and I am very, very pleased that there have actually been some constructive suggestions from the Medical Association and from the PLO about what we can do to solve the problem of that there are areas in Denmark, too large and too many who still have problems with medical shortages All good ideas I bring along, but our idea of a duty is not put in the drawer. We must also have that on the table before we are sure that the problem has been resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114843	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister for Health, so now we have reached where we are going to start the rapporteur's line. And the first rapporteur to be on the platform is from the Social Democratic Party. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326114910	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Conservatives for raising the debate on an important issue. After all, we share the ambition that all Danes should have access to a general practitioner, no matter where they live in the country. That is why we also agree with many of the considerations contained in the motion for a resolution. We are currently faced with a major task in our health services. We must ensure medical coverage throughout the country so that all Danes have access to a permanent general practitioner. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Last year there were about 140,000 Danes who did not have access to it. And the figure is expected to increase in the coming years before we can see a fall. In particular, some areas of the country are severely affected by medical shortages. For social democracy, when we talk about free and equal access to health, it is absolutely crucial that everyone has access to a general practitioner, because precisely when it comes to our history of illness, it matters that it is a person that we know and trust, and the practitioners also play an important role as those who have to get us on to health care if anything is wrong. The purpose of the present system was precisely to ensure better medical coverage throughout the country. That's why there were, among other things, opened up that doctors could own up to six outer numbers. A number of new structures have emerged, including: the so-called partnership clinics. It is important to make it clear that not all partnership clinics are barbecue clinics. For example, one doctor may carry out the patient treatment while a private company is in charge of the administration. This can make good sense and help ensure better medical coverage. When faced with the great challenge of medical shortages, there must also be the possibility of creating different structures that can meet the challenge of medical shortages. It must also continue to be possible for doctors to purchase more than one external number. But it has not been intended that a doctor should be able to own several clinics without even working in any of them. That is why we agree that something needs to be done about these sloppy clinics. It is important for citizens to have transparency in medical choices, and it should not be possible for practitioners to act as strawmen who own outside numbers without having primarily worked in one of the clinics. So we support the fact that the Ministry of Health is working for a solution that ensures that the owner doctor has to have his primary activity in one of the clinics that he owns. We look forward to the Health Ministry's proposal for the most effective solution together with the Danish Parliament's parties, here the health rapporteurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115252	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115257	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Skovsby for your kindness with regard to the proposal we have put forward. Of course, I appreciate that very much. But I do not quite understand the point of holding onto the fact that you must be allowed to own six outside numbers, because there will be no more doctors who have six outside numbers, rather than just having the one that, in general, suits what you can do for yourself. So what is the reason why doctors should be allowed to own as many as six outside numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115336	As I said, we believe, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that partnership clinics also have their advantages and that they make sense. Where we do not think it makes sense is where there is a doctor who owns several outer numbers but does not himself work as a doctor under at least one of them. Conservatives have also attached an annex to the motion for a resolution, Annex No. 255, where it is just mentioned here that private companies have discovered that they can contact completely random doctors and ask them to become owners of up to six different clinics without even working as a medical practitioner in the day-to-day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115432	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115436	Thank you. However, the rapporteur would not prefer a structure such as this one. Six doctors, housed in the same house, each had their own external number, thus ensuring continuity for the patients, by simply having their own external number and patients, rather than having a construction where there is one doctor who may then have some staff and cannot ensure continuity in the same way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115506	I would prefer us to stick to the construction of partnership clinics where it works very well, and there are several examples of this. So it is our starting point that we stick to where it gives it really good flexibility and where it provides a professional environment for several different professional groups. And then we look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115537	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326115602	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Per Larsen to raise, moreover, a very, very important discussion of general practice and the situation in general practice. If we get up a bit in the helicopter and it's not because I don't think that everyone else hasn't also got up in the helicopter, but now I'm just doing it again... then I think that when you start this type of debate, it's very interesting to ask yourself the question: Why is it now that we have a relatively close health service in Denmark? There are at least two good reasons for this. First of all, it is because we want what can be done in the near health care sector and in this case, in general practice, to be dealt with in the near health care system. So, the individual patient can be solved and treated by the doctor in general practice, that is what needs to happen. Secondly, it is because general practice represents an invaluable entry into the rest of the health care system. It is our general practitioner who essentially refers us to health care if that is what is needed for the individual patient. So the main task for us politicians, at least as I see it, is to make sure that, in the absence of a better word, we have a background organization that can meet the Danes' desire to see a doctor when it is necessary: that you can get to a doctor outside a long wait; that it can happen when you have time for it as a patient; and, as something very important, I think, in this case, that you have access to a doctor, no matter where you live in the country. The vast majority of places in the country work in a traditional way, if I may say so, by the fact that a doctor has a so-called external number and a fixed number of patients and runs his own small business, his own practice. It may also be that the doctor operates his practice in cooperation with others in a doctor's home according to approximately the same recipe. So far, so good. Back in 2013 and other rapporteurs have already mentioned what was done by the Left in connection with the intervention of the then S-led government in the conflict between Danske Regions and PLO saw a political agreement to increase some additional handles to ensure medical coverage in Denmark. Among other things: We introduced the idea that if an outside number or practice, if one wishes to, cannot be filled by a traditional PLO doctor, the outer number must be put out to tender among other private suppliers, and if it does not succeed, the region can take over and run the clinic itself. And then it is sometimes that the Social Democrats and we are arguing a little about what we think is the coolest model of whether it is regional clinics or whether it's tender clinics, but that's what we agreed. We also agreed with the then government that it was a good idea to allow practitioners to own as many as six external numbers, i.e. in principle six practices, again to ensure that there are as many tools in the toolbox as possible to ensure medical coverage throughout the country. We're in the Left still 110 percent. behind the main features of the agreements we then made back in 2013, made with the Social Democrats and, for that matter, the Radicals and the SF. All right. In some cases you see so and, as I understand it, especially in cases where a practicing doctor owns several outer numbers that you then engage one of the other private suppliers on the market to stand for e.g. IT, staff, maintenance of buildings, what I know, and other practical questions. I therefore understand the Conservative proposal that what is then the problem is when the general practitioner does not have a daily patient contact, that is, the person who owns the external number, but only acts as a strawman and sits at home or where he is now sitting. Then that is the problem, and I understand that if it is a so-called strawman. I must be quite honest and say that I have not seen such an authoritative study or any other indication of whether it is a problem and, if so, how big the problem is in the real world. But that does not change the fact that, on the other hand, I can see that there is a great deal of discussion about the problem. In any case, we in the Left think that it is a good idea, so that there is no misunderstanding whatsoever, that the demands for presence in the clinic are tightened up when you, as a medical practitioner, own an outer number, and in the case of having more outer numbers, you have to have presence and primarily work in one of the clinics you own. I believe that, in the name of equality, we must also say that whatever the administrative or organisational setup is, any new rules on presence must apply regardless of whether you as a doctor form part of a partnership model or whether you run your practice or practice in such a more traditional way. The presence must be said to be important, regardless of how the clinic or clinics are operated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120122	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120126	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen for a fine speech. But I can, I think, ask the question whether the rapporteur does not see a great risk of accidental incidents in relation to strawmen. I have at least seen in North Jutland that a doctor, Class 51, will be attached to several outside numbers when they become available, and that it is then a company that actually runs the practice. A little back to the matter of continuity, because it does not, of course, happen, since it is a company that runs the clinic typically with changing doctors, temporary doctors, perhaps not even general medical practitioners, but that, because the clinic is run under the delegation of the doctor concerned, they can vouch for what is going on. But is the rapporteur's optics not losing the continuity of such a structure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120238	Well, the risk is, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Per Larsen that there are no doctors to fill the relevant outer numbers. Well, the construction is, of course, that it is a practicing doctor who, if I may say so, must front no matter what. So it is a general practitioner who is responsible for the up to six outer numbers that he owns. Then it may well be that behind there are some people to whom some of the administrative work has been outsourced, and it may also be employment, that is to say, that someone else is asked to do it, but it is after all the responsibility of the general practitioner to ensure that things are in order and that there is continuity in the individual clinics as well. I don't know what, sir. Peder Larsen imagines the alternative? The alternative may of course be regional clinics, and I think that would also be an inappropriate way to go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120338	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120340	Thank you. Then let me go further. For six outside numbers one could imagine that a couple of thousand patients had been connected per person. external number. So we have a construction like this with 12,000 patients just to take a number. If the company in question, which is actually running the clinics with a single doctor like the one who has medical responsibility for it, includes several doctors with outside numbers, then you can suddenly come up to a considerable number of clinics with 12,000 patients who could then perhaps be passed on to a capital fund, or whatever. Is this a development which is feared by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120424	No, it's a general practitioner who buys these outer numbers, so it's the general practitioner who fronts the system and, as such, also the patients and is responsible for the six outer numbers. What I fear is if we find ourselves in a situation where the alternative is a medical shortage. I think we should have some tools in the toolbox, including the question of the number of outer numbers, it may be tender clinics, it may be regional clinics and that we have a variety of tools to ensure that there is medical coverage both in North Jutland and down on Lolland, where I originally come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120504	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120508	Thank you. It has to be said that these are the same problems we are discussing today, which we also discussed three years ago and four years ago, and so I think that the Left is also giving the same answers: we have to do something. But none of the tools we have used have yet succeeded in securing relatively more practitioners. It is just as a prerequisite that it is the family doctor who knows me well, who must be a ropekeeper in relation to the close and coherent health care and make sure that I do not get lost myself, and it is the knowledge of me that qualifies the practicing doctor. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur what is the rapporteur's view of future medical practice, which may be manned by unknown staff, various alternate temporary workers: can the medical practice at all fulfil the role that medical practice must have in the future in order to be part of the close and coherent health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120613	At any rate, I believe that this presupposes that the SF throws itself into the battle for how many specialists we need to have trained for the future. It would be a place for SF to start if you like to enter and fill a room into that debate. I'll just have the benefit of seeing some of that, but maybe it's coming today. Then I have to say to Mrs Kirsten Normann that the alternative there could have been a 7-8 years ago was that we had done nothing, that is to say that we had not given these opportunities for supply clinics if a general practitioner could not fill an outside number and had not allowed one to own six outer numbers. It should be borne in mind here that not all general medical practitioners, or all general medical practitioners, want to operate in general practice who want to handle all the bureaucracy associated with it. It's not. So I think there has to be an alternative also for those who do not like to stand for all the administrative aspects of general practice themselves. This is, of course, possible here when it comes to the fact that you can ship yourself into a partnership setup of six external numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120717	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120719	Neither is it because I don't think you should look at opportunities. Regional clinics are also a good idea. But that does not change the fact that the less knowledge one has of the patient, the less one can take responsibility for oneself, and in the light of some of the experiences we have from, for example. The dentist business, I think, scares the tracks. When it is the case that you suddenly have targets for how many paradentosis treatments to do or how many fillings to do, then the whistle goes, that we really have to try to keep patients away from health care, because we are so good at preventing and treating, and we risk that in reality it will be economy isolated that will count.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120759	But I do not understand if Mrs Kirsten Normann imagines regional clinics as the answer to how to create continuity for the individual patient. I think that's perfect on the moon. I still think, in fact, to return to my answer from before that you will have to, if you want to ensure medical coverage for the alternative is that there is no medical coverage • on the one hand to train some more doctors, on the other hand to have some different options, some different tools down in the toolbox to answer the questions of the future. I look forward to Mrs. Kirsten Normann coming up to the platform in a moment and presenting SF's plan on how to ensure medical coverage throughout Denmark. It's gonna be exciting to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120843	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326120904	Who doesn't remember the good old days? At least I remember coming to a medical center where there were three permanent doctors and a nurse. It must have been modern at that time, because it was now a few years ago. We all knew three doctors, and we also had our favorites, but it was just like we came, and the times I came and had to be stitched either in the neck or in the chin, it was at the nurse's. But we were safe about it, and they knew the family, and those who stayed, they knew when they had children, and followed pregnancy and upbringing etc. That's what we popularly called the family doctor. You could say that we had three doctors to exchange between in our municipality, but it was enough to feel safe because you knew the three doctors. That's the dream I'm still working on to bring us into the future. It is true, as some have said, that we have been working on this problem for so many years now without trying to see what makes the difference and what it is that makes us unable to get general practitioners out. Especially where I come from, down at Lolland, it's really, really hard to attract doctors. Is the solution then that we do regional clinics? Is the solution that there are some doctors who can get six outside numbers? Is the solution that a private company will come and install itself? After all, we hate when public money is going to private companies that are going to make money from it. It's okay for a doctor to make money. We all do. We also make a lot of money by standing in here in Parliament and making legislation. I think it was Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen who spoke about dental clinics that were bought by foreign companies only to earn money to sell them on. It is frightening, and it is also some of the scary picture for us in the Danish People's Party. We do not want to close off options, but we also need to ensure that we do so with our eyes open and know what we are going to do. I want and we want in the Danish People's Party the family doctor concept that we knew from earlier, perhaps developed in some ways. How we get there are the steps we have to take. Then it can be said that it is unrealistic and that we are living in a different time. But still that's what we're working for, and we're gonna keep doing that. We did the same in 2013, when the government of that time, which we have previously talked about, made a legislative act together with a great many of the parties of the Danish Parliament, except the Conservative and Danish People's Party, which stood guard around the family doctor. At that time I was out talking to a lot of general practitioners. I think we were many health rapporteurs at the time. We heard about their problems and how new work was constantly being put out to the general practitioners, whom they had difficulty reaching, and when they had to hire someone, it was for their own money and so on. I mean, there were a lot of problems you didn't listen to. Some agreements have been made since then. We have been there, together with the previous government, to draw up an action plan on how we could get more doctors. But we just see that there are still some challenges. But I don't think you've been good at listening to those doctors either. That is also why I called on the Minister: listen now to some of those who are out there and who actually know a little about how to do it. Because, of course, you have to be able to own more than one clinic as a doctor. I would like there to be someone who had a clinic in the metropolitan area where there is popular to be, who then said: Well then I get a clinic also at Lolland, then I can be half the time every place. But I don't like having a clinic where you don't come at all. I don't know how much it's supposed to be, but at least you have to get there and be part of it, so patients know that when they have Mr. Larsen as a doctor or no, today it is probably Mrs Larsen as a doctor, so they also know that Mrs Larsen is responsible and can castle get the quality as there is and secure the doctors who are recruited. And then we hope that we will ensure that these jobs are not just small temporary workers. Everything is better than nothing, we know that, but neither should we be careful. So we think it's really good that we take up this issue and thank Conservatives for once again lifting this with general practice. The Danish People's Party also has two questions after Easter, on which I also hope we will have a debate and something concrete will come out, which I hope will also be done with this particular resolution. In any case, we warmly support the need for something to happen. The way things are going to be, is what the committee's work is going to go into. I know that the Socialists have sent a report which also sounds fine. We just have to be careful that it doesn't become something like that... maybe... and should... and we test... etc. We need something concrete to lift the area. In any case, that is what we are going to go into when we get it in committee. But we're positive, so let's get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121411	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121429	Well, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Conservatives for putting the proposal forward, and I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply to the proposal. I think it looks good. For SF, it is important that we ensure continuity and coherence in health care, and in this context it is also necessary that you can be seen by the same doctor when you visit your general practice, the same doctor who knows your disease history and what else you might have to deal with. However, it is also necessary to ensure that there is cooperation with the rest of the health services and local authorities. Practice is, and will remain, a prerequisite for us to be able to bind the health services together in the near and coherent health services of the future. This is particularly true for citizens who often go to the doctor and who have complex needs, including the need for treatment. For them it is strictly necessary, I think that the medical visit is a safe experience where you feel you are in good hands and where you again feel that there is a connection to the rest of the health care system. In the SF we are therefore also extremely concerned about a trend towards more straw-man clinics. In fact, current legislation means that practitioners have an economic incentive to name several clinics without having to be present themselves and without having to stand up for professionalism themselves, but where they still have a great interest in earnings. That is why we in the SF are not interested in general practice being taken over by clinics that build on capital fund structures and are taken over by capital funds. We want consideration of the needs of the citizen to be at the forefront, not the concern for profit. We recognise that there are medical coverage challenges and we made an agreement in 2013 which allowed regional and licensing clinics, respectively. However, we must note that we are not yet in the finish line, both because there are not enough doctors, but also because we have just never made the structure work properly, despite numerous attempts to solve the task and create the coherence that must be in the close and coherent health care with continuity and prevention as the focal point. I had the pleasure of visiting a doctor's clinic in Ringsted a year ago, or actually a few years ago, the last year just disappeared suddenly when four young doctors had joined forces to have their own joint clinic. They had prioritised that they also had very different competences, and this also enabled them to deal with a great many everyday problems, ranging from putting spirals up in women who needed it, to also being able to sew small wounds that the kids had got in the schoolyard. I think this is a picture of what a well-functioning medical practice should be able to do in the future, and I also believe that, in this situation, it would be possible to see itself more as part of the close and coherent health care system. I am listening to the fact that there is support for a joint report in committee, and I hope that the rapporteur can see this as a very good opportunity. And I have listened to the Minister actually inviting us to negotiations. There is hope ahead of us that we will get to grips with an important issue, so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121821	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121824	I just need to ask you how many straw-man clinics there are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121840	There are at least clinics which are owned by people other than those who are actually responsible, and what is crucial to the structure that we have today is precisely that there is a doctor who has the goal of the agreement concluded with the regions, about what kind of professionalism and quality you have to lay your back on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121856	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121858	That's how the system is set up. It is the case that it is a medical practitioner who fronts, and then you can own up to six outside numbers, and then you can hire some other staff, i.e. other doctors, to carry out the day-to-day operation in the five other clinics, and then I just have to hear about two things: Will Mrs Kirsten Normann abolish it, that is, eliminate the fact that you can own more than an outside number? And then I should just ask for some examples of what kind of capital funds have been inside to take over medical clinics in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326121934	I do not want to give the names of them here from the platform, but we know, and I think the rapporteur himself does, that there are capital funds which own medical clinics in Denmark. And I think it's a problem when it's such that it's not the doctors themselves who own the clinics. That is to compromise on the basis of the way in which we have medical clinics in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122001	Thank you for that and then there are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. Will the rapporteur prepare for the next rapporteur? Sir. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122025	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for drinking off. Thank you, too. Per Larsen and the Conservative People's Party to take up the matter. I can hear that there is a broad consensus in the House that we must ensure medical coverage throughout the country and continue to have very high professionalism in the clinics, and that is wonderful. If we are to be able to accommodate medical coverage throughout the country, we must also have a system that is flexible, and here we must be open to alternative ways of organizing ourselves. We can no longer expect all specialists in general medicine to end up like a Dr Hansen. There are new structures, new needs and new ways of organizing. As I said earlier, there are, for example: medical houses with more doctors appeared, and in my view it has a number of advantages. It is not all the doctors who want to practice general practice, who also have the same burning desire, as the Minister said, to carry out administration. They must have the opportunity to buy services from other private suppliers so that they can focus on what they can, namely to secure the medical part, and then they can leave other tasks to other parties. I don't have a problem with partnership clinics like that. On the contrary, this can help to ensure medical coverage throughout the country, as they are attractive to more doctors who might otherwise have gone another way. The important thing is that the owner of the outer number has the medical responsibility for the clinics and himself works primarily in general practice. But the problem, as Mr. Per Larsen points out, is real, namely, straw-man clinics where a doctor completely proforma owns one or more outer numbers without having any time in the clinic: no patient contact and no professional responsibility. This is a slippery slope which we must correct, because that is the only way to ensure professionalism and continuity in the treatment. This is also closely linked to inequality in health, because it affects especially those citizens who need to be closely involved in treatment and who have frequent contact with the doctor. In the Radical Left, we are pleased that the Minister has announced that we must now look at the extent of the problem, i.e. how many of these barren clinics are actually in the country, so that we can find a solution together that will solve the problem without creating new ones. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122241	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122303	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the rapporteur for spriting that was very nice. Thank you to the Conservatives for raising the debate, which we think is really, really important. We can recognise very many of the concerns of the Conservative People's Party in the resolution, as some of us also have in the Enhedslisten. And I think it is very good that we have this motion for a resolution and also have a talk with the Minister and the other parties about what we can do about these sloppy clinics. The other rapporteurs have been around it. I think it is important what the problems are here and also why they have arisen. I think it is important that we try to distinguish between having what we call a partnership clinic, where we hire someone else to take care of some administration and all sorts of other things... it can then be fine enough... and then the straw-man clinics, we start to see where there is no medical connection, and where I can at least also listen to the water pipes of some of the doctors who have been employed in different places, that it is extremely difficult also as a doctor in those houses to have proper patient contact and ensure the continuity that is needed. The problem is, and I would also like to mention this in addition to what many have already said, namely why the general practitioner is important in the near health care sector, but of course it is also a very important piece in trying to reduce the increasing social inequality that exists in health. For it is a doctor with an understanding of the community, with involvement in the community and understanding of the individual patient who is able to spot those who must have a phone call • those who need some extra help to get down there to the doctor and who can at all ensure that some of the people who are very little inclined to contact the health care system, although they should, get an outstretched hand. There I see the general practitioner as a very important piece, while the possibility of solving it with the straw-man clinics becomes smaller. On the other hand, of course, there is the excellent objection that several people have raised: do you want to own your own clinic immediately? It's not safe at all. And how do we ensure medical coverage throughout the country? I think we need to be creative in the approach. In addition to ensuring that you have a primary connection with at least one of the clinics to which you own the external number, you also have to be present to some extent and have some sort of daily responsibility towards the other clinics. doctor, instead of really getting rid of the problem. In the Enhedslisten, we also wanted to extend the possibility of establishing regional clinics so that the regions can create more clinics, own and run them, and also ensure medical coverage in some of the areas where as a newly trained doctor you may not be inclined to settle down immediately and own your own external number. It will also make it possible to create extra good conditions for the newly trained doctors in some of the areas where it can be seen politically that there is an extra great shortage of practitioners. So we support the Conservatives' proposals and would really like to work both with a text and with some negotiations on how to tackle the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122641	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from New Citizens, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122705	Thank you. One of the funny things about coming to Parliament was this discussion about medical shortages, because when you go back and try to look at how many years that discussion has actually been in Parliament, you see that it is a discussion that has taken place for a very, very many years. And I wondered so much about it. You have that approach when you're out there: Well, get it fixed. How hard can it be to look at a demographic projection and make sure there are enough doctors? That is also a little the approach I have to it. Of course, there are complications, there are constantly new challenges and developments with new approaches, which must be addressed to new structures on the political side too, in terms of how to organise health care. But one of the problems is that there are a number of doctors, for example. the other Scandinavian countries that come down here and I think that according to the latest inventory it was 48%, which after 3 years went back to the home country. It is not because it is an economic bad business that they come; it is that 48%. going back to their home countries, probably just making the medical shortage bigger. These are the things you should address. And I hope that, just as we have talked about making such a 10-year plan in the field of psychiatry, we will also start making long-term plans here and making proper demographic projections so that we can ensure that enough students are admitted to the medical school, who then apply to the general practice afterwards so that we can meet the needs of the general practitioner population. When it comes to this motion for a resolution on strawberry clinics, I must honestly admit that I do not know how many they are. So I hear the Minister wants to take a look at that. And if it's a problem, it needs to be addressed, but at this point I just don't know how big this problem is. That is why I look forward to having this clarified and we will have to look into whether, if there is a real problem in it, there is something that needs to be dealt with. If there is something that harms that there are not enough general practitioners out there, or if this company structure makes it inappropriate, in terms of how we basically want general practitioners to act on the Danish market, then of course I think we should deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122917	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326122942	Thank you for that, and thank you for the positive statements which, after all, have been made in relation to our proposals. We know what it means to have a doctor of our own. It may not mean so much if you are healthy, but if you are going to fail something and get sick, it is extremely important that you know your doctor and that the doctor knows your patients. If you suffer from pain in life, if you suffer from mental illness, if you are chronically ill, or if you suffer from chronic diseases at the same time, it is invaluable and of great importance that you have a doctor who you know and who you feel safe about. Similarly, when a well-known patient either calls the doctor or comes in through the door, the doctor is much easier to diagnose than it is a completely foreign patient that has not been seen before. General practice is unique with high patient satisfaction, high quality, high patient safety. Yes, the only thing you can almost mention, which is unfortunate, is that you have so much shortage of family doctors. I have also put forward proposals to train more doctors than are planned. Unfortunately, it was without the great support of the government. We know that a strong primary sector ensures lower mortality compared to a number of diseases. Longer life expectancy, less inequality and better quality of life, more relevant use of hospitals, with fewer in-patients, lower growth in health costs, and this brings to light a number of positive points by having a strong primary sector where there is continuity between the doctor and the patient. But it takes continuity to have a permanent doctor who has his permanent staff of nurses, secretaries, physiotherapists, and whatever else is in the clinic, which gives the patient the confidence to go to the general practitioner, i.e. a family doctor who has an outer number and a number of patients, typically 1,600-1,800. There are then some doctors who have more and who have taken on greater responsibility simply because we have a shortage of doctors. As has been said, we have too few practitioners, partly because far too few people have been trained over time, partly because it has been more attractive to seek employment in hospitals than it has been to be a medical practitioner. The truth is that we have never had as many doctors as we have today, but we still have a great deal of shortage on the front, out in general practice. This has meant that people have had to be provided with medical care in other ways. It may be through regional-run clinics or clinics that have been put out to tender, which are then so run by some companies. In 2013, as was also mentioned today, the majority of members of parliament amended the legislation so that one doctor could own up to six capacities, six outer numbers, i.e. outer numbers and associated patients. We in the Conservative People's Party did not like that at the time, because how could a doctor fit 10,000 patients, for example, since the norm number is 1,600? The Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance also voted against the amendment of the law. Now we are beginning to see the problems of straw-man clinics, in other words clinics, where the outer numbers are owned by a doctor, but where it is a company which is then in charge of operation. The company then staffs the clinic with staff employed, including some doctors who are typically on reduced time. It may be older doctors, doctors who are not necessarily trained as general medicine, but have a different specialty, but who work under the delegation of the owner's doctor, who may never be seen in the clinic. In the Conservative People's Party, we are fervently opposed to such constructions, where a single doctor, who may never appear himself in one of the clinics, leaves the operation to companies that actually practice, for example. 6 outer numbers of 1,200 patients. There is also the disadvantage that young doctors who are ready to get their feet under their own table and who dream of having their own practice are being neglected because the outer numbers suddenly become extremely expensive and costly. We now see company designs that offer millions of dollars on outside numbers that could previously be taken over by a young doctor even and freely. We therefore run the risk of extreme numbering kings who, with a sufficient number of strawmen, can sit on large parts of the primary sector. Then perhaps some will say that this problem does not exist and that we have not seen it yet. No, but the seeds have been added to it, and that is why we think it would be appropriate to put a stop to that gap, because soon we may see fund formations that go in and sit on it. We think it's scary, and we think it should be stopped. Patients lose because without continuity much of the quality is lost. There will be more hospitalizations and this will prove to be significantly more expensive for society and less quality for patients. After all, we have nothing against the fact that general practitioners form part of a community, perhaps 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 in a medical center. They are certainly allowed to organize themselves with a company that takes care of all sorts of things other than exactly the operation itself and the medical profession. They are allowed to take care of staff management, accounting and property management and other things. Doctors are free to hire assistance. However, in order to maintain continuity and quality, the starting point should be that a doctor has his own external number and not six outer numbers. Patients deserve the best, and it is their health that is at stake in the end. That is why I must, of course, ask the Danish Parliament to support our proposal that we should create barriers to barrage clinics in the constructions that you can see are under way. Otherwise, of course, I look forward to a constructive committee procedure in which we are taking a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326123651	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210326123714	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 6 April 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
