ParlaMint-DK_20210510100004	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510100037	The debate is open and I shall give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510100047	Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party proposes, with one of the motions for resolutions, that before the end of the parliamentary year, the government should draw up a bill which means that foreign citizens should be expelled if they commit violations of arms, drugs and criminal law. With the second motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that by the end of 2021 the government should draw up a bill that tightens the rules of the Aliens' Act on expulsion, so that foreigners who have committed gang-related crime are consistently expelled. The motion for a resolution must be understood to mean that the Danish People's Party proposes that foreigners should be deported consistently if they commit the crime referred to in Denmark. The authors of the motions for resolutions refer in particular to: to that Denmark cannot be served by having guests in the country who sign for our hospitality by committing crime. The authors also point out that it is all too often the case that criminal foreigners who have been given a prior warning of expulsion are not expelled if they commit new crimes. Against this background, the Danish People's Party wants no warning to be given of expulsion in cases of gang-related crime, but that there must be a consistent expulsion. In this context, the proposers state that the individual's personal circumstances should not be taken into account in the assessment of the possibility of expulsion in the case of gang crime. In addition, I understand the authors' comments on B 199 that it is the authors' view that the practice of the European Court of Human Rights should be interpreted in such a way that Denmark can introduce zero tolerance to foreigners who commit gang crimes. As I have already said, it is the government's very clear position that criminal foreigners should be expelled as far as possible. Of course, if you abuse your stay in Denmark to commit serious crime, you do not have much to do in Danish society. Crime must be combated, both in general terms when it comes to gangs and when it comes to access to expulsions. I think we can agree on that quickly. Having said that, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, and let me just say a few words about why. When we talk about expulsion, we cannot escape the fact that there is an interaction between our national rules and our international rules in this area. And although I agree on the bottom line with the Danish People's Party that foreigners who commit crime, including gang members, should be expelled as far as possible, we cannot simply turn a blind eye to our international obligations. This has also been commented on in the past, among other things. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. It is the government's view that we have a clear interest in a strong international legal order, and it is important for the government that we in Denmark live up to the rules we have assumed. This applies, among other things, to: the international conventions on expulsion to which Denmark has acceded. But within that framework, the government would very much like to look at the possibility of further tightening the expulsion rules. As the authors are already aware, work is currently being carried out in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, where we are just looking at whether there is room for further tightening of the expulsion rules. However, I can already say that, within the framework of our international obligations, no rules on consistent expulsion can be introduced. This applies in general and therefore also to gang-related crime. We are a community of law where the law is equal for all, and that means that we cannot simply ignore international obligations because it challenges our sense of justice if a criminal alien cannot be expelled. Human rights apply to all of us, both law-abiding citizens and criminals. This must be the case in a legal system. Therefore, we cannot escape the fact that a concrete and individual assessment must always be made as to whether Denmark can be expelled within the framework of our international obligations. However, we must of course use common sense and be sceptical and react if international rules and systems prevent us from acting in a way that is obviously right. And the conventions are not above debate. They are the expression of political negotiations, political compromises, and we must therefore continue to influence the interpretation of conventions and say so when we believe that the conventions do not lead to results that can be explained and defended. Having said that, there is, in fact, already a very wide scope for expelling criminal foreigners. Although the rules of the Aliens Act on expulsion are generally based in such a way that protection against expulsion increases in line with the length of the legal residence of foreigners in this country, there is also extended access to expulsion by a large number of specific crimes. This applies in particular to crimes against the security of the state, persons-dangerous crime, serious enrichment crimes, drug crimes and violations of arms law. If a foreigner is unconditionally sentenced to liberty for this type of crime, the alien may be expelled regardless of the duration of his/her stay in the country. As the rules are today, it is quite fundamental that if a criminal alien can be expelled from Denmark under the expulsion rules, he must be expelled unless it would certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. The actual assessment of the possibility of expulsion shall be carried out by the courts in the context of criminal proceedings. As I mentioned at the outset, the government's very clear position is that criminal foreigners should be expelled as far as possible, which is why the Social Democratic Party has also supported the tightening up of the expulsion rules in recent years. Among other things: In 2018, we helped establish guidelines on when the Danish courts could in general expel criminal foreigners. As legislators, we have thus provided the courts with an important tool for making maximum use of the expulsion rules within the framework of international obligations. With the reinforcements in 2018, the conditional expulsion clause was also abolished, which was replaced by a warning system. A warning shall be given in cases where it is considered that expulsion would certainly be contrary to international obligations and the warning shall in principle have no expiry date. In a later expulsion case, the warning system should place greater emphasis on whether the alien has previously been warned of the possibility of expulsion by repeated crime. Therefore, when the Danish People's Party believes that the warning system should be abolished by gang-related crime, I think it is overlooked that a warning of expulsion is precisely a promise in cases where there is no expulsion in relation to our international obligations and that the warning is actually given weight if the alien commits crime again. And we can see that the same applies when the Court of Human Rights makes its assessment in cases of expulsion. This leads me to dwell a little on the effect of the austerity measures in the field of expulsion in recent years. In the vast majority, if not in all cases where serious crime has been committed, there is already the right to expel, according to the law in force. The question will then be whether the actual expulsion can take place within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. And it is my very clear opinion that recent case law of the Supreme Court shows a tendency for more foreigners who have committed serious and repeated crime to be expelled, despite being born in Denmark or having come here as quite young people and therefore having a strong connection with the country. This suggests that the sharpenings that have taken place in recent years have had an effect. At the same time, we also see that in several cases against Denmark the Court of Human Rights has approved the Danish expulsions and that the court is reluctant to overrule national court rulings if there has been a thorough review of the circumstances of the case. And, as the authors themselves mention in the comments to B 199, the Court of Human Rights has, no later than two judgments of January this year, blue-stamped the expulsion by the Supreme Court of two criminal foreigners who had grown up in Denmark and which everything else had to be regarded as having a strong connection with this country. The Court pointed out, inter alia, that it is a matter of substance to stress the criminal history of a person in balancing the proportionality of expulsion. I believe that the more consistent line of the Supreme Court has come to stay and that the Court of Human Rights will continue to leave the individual countries more room for manoeuvre in the field of expulsion. I would also like to point out another issue which is extremely important, not just for the government, but for society as a whole. We must have a great focus on the home journey part, so that the aliens who are expelled actually also leave Denmark. In my opinion, the political debate should be much more concerned with precisely that, in other words, how to ensure effective and rapid enforcement of expulsions. And, as I have already stated in a number of contexts, it is a high priority for the government to ensure that criminal aliens who have been expelled actually also leave and that they leave as soon as possible. That is why last summer we have established a new board, the Home Travel Agency, which must be closer to the expelled criminals and rejected asylum seekers and get more people to go home. With the establishment of the Board, we have streamlined and strengthened the organisation of the work in order to focus more specifically on the return journey area. In this context, we have also taken back some advisory work previously carried out by Danish Refugee Aid. In addition, in March of this year the Government submitted a proposal for a new Return Travel Act which contains a number of new initiatives. The new initiatives must include: ensure closer follow-up and faster consistency towards foreigners without legal residence in Denmark, and the government will continue to work hard to ensure that more rejected asylum seekers and criminals expelled travel home. Although the government cannot support the motions for resolutions, we agree, of course, that if one cannot comply with the rules adopted by the Danish Parliament, then one should not be here. However, we must also be the good example and send a signal that, although we do not tolerate crime and hit it hard in terms of sanctions, prohibitions and penalties, we are a community of law, and that also includes respect for human rights. It has also been the prayer of entry when I have asked the lawyers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to examine whether there is room for further tightening the expulsion rules. The possibilities which may exist must be possible within the framework of the conventions. As I said earlier, this means, among other things, that we do not bypass the fact that a specific and individual assessment must always be made as to whether expulsion would be contrary to the international obligations which we, as a country, have undertaken. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101040	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101045	Thank you to the Minister for the speech here. What we have to learn from the Minister's speech is that the government will not support the fact that in all cases it is consistent when it comes to foreigners who have committed gang crime in Denmark. I would like to ask the Minister: if we do not want to ensure that all gang-related people who are not Danish citizens are expelled from Denmark, is it only because of the international conventions, or would the Minister like, in spite of some international conventions, to be able to expel all those who have committed gang-crime in Denmark who are not Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101127	In fact, I have some doubts as to what exactly is being asked, but let me try to answer as well as I can now. We are of the opinion that if people commit serious crime and they do not have Danish citizenship, they must be expelled as far as possible. When I say as much as possible, it is because it has to be done within the framework of the rules we normally have. This means, among other things, that a concrete assessment must be carried out in each case, where it must also be weighed against the rules laid down by the international conventions. Perhaps that is a yes to the question put by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101209	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101211	I guess it was almost a maybe that was said there. I'll try to repeat the question. After all, if you are a non-Danish national and commit gang-related crime in Denmark, does the Minister think, regardless of the existence of international conventions, that is, if you disregard their existence, but the Minister himself could decide that all non-Danish citizens who commit gang-related crime should be expelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101241	It does not really make any sense for me to say that international conventions should be disregarded. Nor would it make any sense for me to say that one should disregard the constitution or that one should disregard the division of power for us it is a premise to discuss politics within the framework of. And this means that individual assessments must be made in each case, which must be weighed against the considerations set out both in the constitution and also in international conventions. In concrete terms, this means that we do not want to adopt legislation that may conflict with what we consider to be the fundamental principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101317	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101320	Thank you. This is just a brief question following on from what the Minister has just said. Does the Minister believe that international conventions can be equated with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101333	After all, these are two very different things: one is the constitution of the country; the other is the international rules that we have agreed to. In this sense, it cannot be said that it is the same, but where there is something common about it is, after all, that it is some rules that Denmark has agreed to and that we as a government are happy that we have joined and that we are not on our way to leave. So in the sense that it provides the framework for the legislation that we believe should be adopted in the Folketing, there is something that is common: that we do not want to adopt legislation that is contrary to international rules or our constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101412	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101413	But the difference between the two, i.e. the constitution and our international conventions, is surely that international conventions are subject to a simple majority in the Folketing. If a majority in the Folketing wants something else, they have no other practice for Denmark than all other legislation. Then there are some conditions for what it takes if we step out and if we want to step in again and with reservations and so on. But I hope that the government recognises that after all, the constitution has something more gravity, something more weight and everything else just isn't something you just change. That is why it is a little strange when international conventions are often highlighted together with the constitution, as if it is something that is just such chiseled in stone as such a Western form of Sharia. Doesn't the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101503	Well, I certainly think there are some important points in what Mrs Pernille Vermund says here, namely that we cannot just equate the Danish constitution, our constitution, with the international conventions that we have signed up to. I also agree that we must be careful that they do not become something almost religious, which you are a bad person if you leave. We must remember that over the last few decades, many conventions we have signed up to have signed up to in my lifetime. And Denmark was not, of course, a complete banana republic until we joined those conventions. So I fully agree that it can be discussed and it needs to be discussed and challenged, I just say that when we assess whether to support legislation in Denmark, we consider that it should also be possible to do so within the framework of the conventions that we have acceded to. Then, of course, it is an honest talk whether we should step out of some conventions, and we can weigh the advantages and disadvantages against each other on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101554	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then the rapporteur's line can begin, and the first party to be represented is the Social Democrat by Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101610	Thank you. It must always be exciting what the Socialist rapporteur can think of after the Minister, but we do. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that foreigners be expelled if they violate the arms, drugs and criminal law. In addition, it is proposed to tighten up the rules of the Aliens' Act on expulsion so that foreigners who have committed gang-related crime are consistently expelled. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that legislation should be put in place so that criminal foreigners are expelled whenever possible. For crime among immigrants and descendants originating in the Middle East is one of the biggest integration problems facing us in Denmark. The figures speak their clear language; people from the Middle East are clearly over-represented in crime statistics. As I have also mentioned in the debate on a few similar motions for resolutions last week, it is a key priority for the Social Democratic Party to ensure that more criminal foreigners are expelled. In a few days' time, we will have to deal first with a legislative proposal which will allow the citizenship of persons who have committed serious gang crimes to be taken to their home countries. We hope that the Danish Parliament will support this, so that we can get more gang criminals thrown out of Denmark than is the case today. In addition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has a small study under way to clarify whether it is possible to tighten up the legislation further so that more criminal foreigners can be expelled within the framework of our international obligations. Social democracy therefore does not support the two proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101740	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101746	Thank you. In fact, I would like to put the same question that I asked Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Because I understand that the Socialists will not support the expulsion of foreign criminals who commit gang crimes from Denmark in all cases, and we in the Danish People's Party of course find this a pity, and we hope that we can get there at some point, that the government and the Socialists will. But having said that, I would like to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund: If we now imagined that there were no international conventions, that was not right and is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund does not agree that all foreign gang criminals should then be expelled from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101825	Well, in the best of all worlds justice should always be done, but we do not live in the best of all worlds, and I do not think, as the Minister said a little, that it makes so much sense to imagine a world that is significantly different from the world we now have. And in the world we now have, fortunately, we also have in an international context a set of rules on how states can act with each other, and I think that is in a small state such as Denmark's interest. Otherwise it could well be the law of the jungle that prevailed, and therefore I think it is both in Denmark's interest and also in the interests of Danish citizens who might get into trouble in different places in the world that there are some rules of the game. I would also like to say that, since it is in our interest to spread it here, so that more and more countries support this kind of thing, it will be very difficult for us to bring those arguments forward in the world if we start to compromise with them ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101921	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101923	But, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, can it not be that it becomes so unreasonable that we see that foreign gang criminals commit crime in Denmark and they can thus be allowed to stay almost indefinitely regardless of what and can continue to commit crime in Denmark because we have some international conventions? Can it simply not be too much at some point for the Socialists that international conventions, drawn up just after World War II, prevent us from doing the right thing for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510101956	There are examples that you might think of taking a head start on the consequences of very serious crime, including gang crime. That is why I was glad to see the legislation tightened up a few years ago, so that many gang criminals will only be released once they have become grey-haired. In other words, there has been considerable punishment in this area, and at the same time I do not think it is quite right to draw a picture that there is not a lot of expulsions also for gang criminals. In recent years, there have been around 1,500-2,000 expulsions a year, and the Supreme Court has confirmed several decisions, including where people with an even very large association with Denmark have been expelled. I think that is only a good thing and I hope for a number of such judgments in serious cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102039	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102100	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for not just one but two motions for resolutions which we are discussing here under the same hat. The fundamental position of the Left is quite clear: we believe that if you commit something rhyming with violence, weapons, drugs or rape, you should be thrown out of this country for the first time and there should be no warnings. That is what the Chairman of the Left said at the summer meeting of the Left in August last year, and we are, of course, still standing by that. That is why the Left is prepared to tighten the rules so that we can deport more criminal foreigners who have committed serious crimes, especially in these categories, and, of course, especially if this has happened in relation to the activities of a criminal gang. Of course, there must always be a small limit, and this must be done within the framework of our international commitments. But here we can also understand that the room for manoeuvre within the international commitments which have been accepted and which we in the Left are in favour of having joined is not a static room for manoeuvre, but a dynamic room for manoeuvre. For example: is the assessment right now that there is more room for the expulsion of foreigners who commit rape, and then it is actually just getting started and tightening the rules and rather today than tomorrow. And we are thus convinced that, if the government really did do this by deporting more criminal foreigners to a political priority, we do not see that, unfortunately, that has been done so could also come a good step further than today in relation to expulsions. Therefore, we can find a lot of positive elements in this proposal from the Danish People's Party, although we do not agree with everything, and therefore we are looking forward to a good and constructive committee reading, where we can discuss this issue and where we can get some questions and get some answers and have a constructive discussion on how we can ensure that more foreigners who commit serious crime can be expelled from Denmark. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102315	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and he is. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102336	Thank you for the floor. There are still integration problems in Denmark. Foreigners and persons with foreign backgrounds, as the authors also point out in one of the motions for resolutions, are over-represented in crime statistics. We, as elected representatives, have an obligation to take this seriously and to act on it. One of the ways to do this is to provide the courts with the tools they need in order to be able to expel more criminal foreigners. SF has therefore also helped to make a number of tightenings in the area earlier. We have done so since the Institute for Human Rights stated that the Danish courts showed fewer criminal foreigners than was possible within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. In a situation where so many people need our help, we should not use our powers on those who turn their backs on the community. It is important if we are to strike the hard balance between looking after Danish society on the one hand and helping those we can on the other, and we must. But it can also get too smart. The proposal to amend the Aliens Act so that foreigners who have committed gang-related crime are deported in every case and without exception, I find it difficult to see how it should be possible to implement within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. The two cases mentioned in the motion for a resolution probably help to develop case law in the right direction, but it seems to me unlikely that this alone would mean that the situation is now substantially different. In any case, this should be examined very carefully before any further progress is made on this proposal. With the proposal to table a legislative proposal to deport foreign nationals if they violate the law on arms, drugs or criminals, I believe that the authors of the motion go too far. The last time the right-wing tightened the arms bill blindly, we saw a man being punished more severely for the illegal possession of weapons than his attacker who attacked him with an axe. The SF cannot therefore support these motions for resolutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102535	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102541	I would like to ask SF, who is so obviously opposed to us expelling criminal gang members who are not Danish citizens, what SF then intends to do in relation to the foreign gang members who use Denmark as a playground for their criminal activities. It's drugs, it's blackmail, it's threats that these people get into. Are we just gonna look at it like nothing's happened? Should it be without charge that you can make crime as a foreign national in Denmark, when we can now see that there are so many Denmark who are allowed to stay, even if they really should have been expelled if it stood at a majority in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102623	No, of course it shouldn't be without a bill to commit gang crime. Well, it isn't. After all, we have a legal system and we, in the Socialist People's Party, would like to do what we can to combat gang crime. There is no doubt that there has been a routing of the gang environment in recent years. I can, among other things. recommend the podcast called "Bandeland" which finely explains what developments have been in recent years with e.g.: Loyal To Familia and other gangs who have betrayed gang crime in Denmark, which I think it is important that we take action against both in relation to punishment, but also with the expulsion of them where appropriate and where we can do so within the framework of the legislation. That is why, as a matter of fact, we are also open to tightening up legislation in relation to sending out more criminal foreigners, but, of course, it must be within the framework of international obligations. So we would like to do plenty to strengthen integration and combat gang crime, etc., and so we have seen a constructive approach to it and have had it for many years in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102716	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102717	I should just like to be absolutely sure whether I understood the SF rapporteur correctly when it is said that we want to be involved in tightening the legislation on the expulsion of gang members. Where, if so, is it that the SF imagines that we can tighten up so that more people are expelled than is the case today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102737	In fact, I find this difficult because we have been working on it a great deal in recent years and have actually tightened the legislation. So I do not think I can say exactly how to make some tightenings that are within the framework of what one can afford to do, but we would like to take a look at it. I also understand that the government is working in such a way to see where we can do it within the framework of international law, and we would like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102759	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510102845	Thank you for the floor, President. If you commit a crime that violates the law on arms, the law on drugs or the criminal code, then you have to have a severe punishment. If you commit gang-related crime and thus create insecurity in public space, then the hammer must fall. Part of that punishment can be expulsion, and if you meet the conditions for it, you must, of course, have a deportment sentence. I have the impression that the prosecution is already making a great deal of accusations about expulsion in cases involving foreigners who are criminals, so this is a legal issue that is regularly tested. This was also seen recently when Shuaib Khan's expulsion was confirmed by the Court of Human Rights. So Denmark has legislation that we have the opportunity to have and that we have. I also think it is important to speak openly about the fact that foreigners are over-represented in crime statistics and under-represented in employment statistics. We have to do something about that. However, we do not support this resolution, as it is our view that we are already going to the edge of our legal obligations. And I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they do not support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103020	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103025	Thank you to the radical rapporteur for the speech. The Radicals say that we are already going to the edge of being able to expel foreign gang criminals, as is the case today, so we cannot tighten any more if we are to comply with the conventions. Kristian Hegaard. But I'd like to hear what Mr. Kristian Hegaard believes that not long ago the Minister for Integration said that it was possible to tighten the expulsion rules further and that he had set his officials in motion. How does Mr. Kristian Hegaard on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103108	However, if some officials are looking into it, I think we should look at it when the work is available, and then we should see how it is in relation to the legal obligations that Denmark is bound by and must be bound by.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103123	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103125	But Mr. Kristian Hegaard just said that one could not tighten any more and that one was against it on the part of the Radical Left and also on the part of other parties. But what does Mr. Kristian Hegaard saw that the Minister still thinks that one can tighten and where could it be, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard sees it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103147	It is my view that we are going to the edge of the legal obligations in which we are, and I can then note that there are some who will examine whether there is any further that we can do. And, of course, when it is available, we will look into it. Secondly, it is difficult to say at this stage when the work in question is not finally completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103208	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103228	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for two very good suggestions. In fact, we are a little too sorry that the two proposals are being considered together, as they are quite different. B 176 on expulsion from the country of origin on the basis of drugs, weapons, etc. have some really, really good intentions. However, we read the proposal and the Danish People's Party must correct me if we are wrong as that even a fine for the possession of a very, very small amount of material, for example. a joint for own consumption, will automatically lead to expulsion. And let me give you a slightly square example of a Chinese exchange student who smokes a joint at a Danish high school; it is perhaps a little much to say that he must be deported automatically. Having said that, however, we would very much like to see the rules tightened up in relation to expulsion when it comes to the sale of drugs, weapons and so on. With those words, we cannot vote in favour of B 176. On the other hand, we are happy to support the B 199 on the expulsion of gang crimes. Gang crime is an evil in Danish society, and when you move at that level, you don't belong in Denmark. The proposal praises and builds on the three gang packages, which, after all, have also greatly increased in Conservatives' gardens. Of course, the proposal will have to be included in international commitments. The proposal itself uses the example of Khan from the LTF as an example that expulsion can well take place within our obligations. In addition, we would point out that the proposal would, of course, have to be introduced in a way in which, in relation to the subject of warnings, it would not have to result in fewer expulsions, but in more expulsions. With these words, we can support B 199.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103409	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103429	I would like to thank the DF for two good proposals: a proposal on the expulsion of criminal foreigners who violate the arms, drugs or criminal law; and a proposal on the consistent expulsion of foreigners who have committed gang-related crime. I shall be brief: New citizens believe that foreigners convicted of crime in Denmark must be shown consistently and after the first sentence, and that is why we naturally support both resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103456	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund, there are no brief remarks to the rapporteur. Thus, I can give the floor to the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, since I do not see the rapporteurs of other parties present in the Chamber. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103517	As we have previously mentioned in the Danish People's Party, it is a bad thing that the parties of the Danish Parliament are not all present when we discuss motions for resolutions, legislative proposals and questions here in the Danish Parliament. Let it be said at the outset. After all, we should not criticise those who then turn up and take part in the debate. Of course, we would have liked a majority in favour of this proposal. The SF and the Radical Left are a little tighter, which must be said to be against, and the government, which also says that it is opposed to these two proposals, which I do not understand. After all, it is a co-examination of two proposals that we in the Danish People's Party think are absolutely necessary when we look at the judgments handed down by our courts. Both proposals are about sending criminals out of the country, and it is actually relatively simple, because it should not be the case that you can stay in Denmark if you are doing crime and not drug crime or gang crime at all. Unfortunately, we have seen that there have been very many negative consequences of the immigration that Denmark has received in particular from the Middle East and North Africa. And among other things... in writing. - (FR) After all, crime is one of the recurring issues on which attention is focused, because the groups that come from the countries such as immigrants are very clearly over-represented, in fact, very dominant in criminal statistics. So it should not really be a proposal we dealt with here in the Folketing; it should actually be something that happened all by itself, because it is surely not right for a guest in a country to choose not to comply with the laws of the country. So it happens when you are in Denmark as a guest and do not comply with the laws of the country that if you do not leave the country of your own motion you do not and if the courts do not judge you either, yes, then we must act in this Parliament. That's why I'm surprised the government doesn't just say, "Okay, that's the way it must be." Although we have some international conventions, we cannot even here in the Folketing from the Minister's and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's side would answer whether, if there were not the conventions, they would be expelled. This is a piece of talk, yes, one would almost think that the two Social Democratic representatives had gone in Mr. The school of Kristian Hegaard and the Radicals, because it is simply impossible to find out what they really think if there were no international conventions, i.e. whether they would remain or not. I find this disturbing when you pretend to want to tighten up these rules and think that there is a need for austerity, that you cannot say very clearly that, of course, there must not be international conventions from the 1950s which barricade that we cannot expel those concerned. Then it is quite in principle that we in the Danish People's Party believe that we should like to expel the people who do crime here in Denmark. This is not least for the sake of the victims, because if you live in Denmark, you have to be protected from crime, and the best way we can do this is to put the criminals away and let them disappear from the streets and straits and by ensuring that if you are a guest in Denmark, you should not be allowed to be in Denmark at all. Then you are a foreigner and at the same time have made a choice that you want to be part of a gang group, so you ask yourself that the end of Denmark is even shorter, so that the fuse will be even shorter towards you. So very briefly: Criminal foreigners should not be in Denmark at all. If you're in Denmark, you have to behave. If you can't do that, you have to go out again. It's simple and consistent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510103952	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the two proposals be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104009	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104031	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council for giving me the floor, and thank you to the new citizens for putting forward this motion for a resolution, which calls for the government to bring forward legislation before the end of the parliamentary year, which means that any criminal conviction of social fraud will in future lead to expulsion for foreigners and that expulsion will be forever. The authors of the motion for a resolution write, among other things, that foreigners account for a large part of the social fraud in Denmark and that the foreigners convicted are not expelled. In this context, the proposers refer inter alia to: It is also important to ensure that the social fraud penalty is low, which means that there is no right of expulsion under the law on aliens. In support of the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution refer, inter alia, to: that the Danish community feeling is under pressure from immigration and that it is a prerequisite for continued support for a modern welfare society in Denmark that citizens understand the Danish community. I would like to start by stating that social fraud is, of course, totally unacceptable, and it is a pity that some people are trying to cheat the community and thereby abuse the mutual trust we have in each other in this country, which is very much the basis of the welfare society we know. The government agrees with the proposers that it is important to maintain confidence and support for the welfare society, and it is clear that it weakens support and confidence if we find that tax-financed welfare benefits are paid to people who are not entitled to them. Those who cheat and deceive break the social contract, and that must of course have consequences. Here too, the government has tightened the rules by requiring that certain serious forms of social fraud involving services should always be reported to the police, for example. if persons for a long time wrongly and against a better knowledge recipient, it could be cash assistance abroad. If you are convicted of social fraud, that can be done, among other things. have the right of residence consequences. As the authors of the motion for a resolution are already aware, it is in fact the case that, in accordance with the current rules on expulsion, there is an extension of the right to expel foreigners who are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for social fraud. That is the way it should be and, of course, I am pleased with it. As I have repeated several times, it is the government's very clear position that criminal foreigners should be expelled as far as possible. This also applies, of course, to foreigners who commit social fraud. As you know, however, we cannot escape the fact that, in the field of expulsion, there is an interaction between our national rules and our international obligations. This means that national expulsion rules must be possible within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order, and it is important for the government that we live up to the rules that we as a country have agreed to. As I have already mentioned in connection with the examination of the two previous motions for resolutions tabled by the Danish People's Party, no rules on consistent expulsion can be introduced within the framework of the conventions. This also applies to the proposal from the New Citizens' Party that social fraud should always and forever lead to expulsion. As I mentioned at the outset, the legislation in force provides for the extension of the right to expel foreigners who are convicted of social fraud. This applies to foreigners who are sentenced to unconditional prison sentences. In such cases, foreigners may be expelled regardless of the duration of their stay in the country. It is, in fact, a derogation from the general principle of the expulsion rules that protection against expulsion increases as the length of the alien's legal residence increases. Let me just put a few words on the stairwell model we have. For foreigners who have been in Denmark for less than five years, expulsion may also take place by the imposition of a conditional penalty. It is basically the case that if, under the expulsion rules, a criminal alien can be expelled from Denmark, the person concerned must be expelled unless it will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. It is a concrete assessment that is carried out by the courts. New citizens point out in the motion for a resolution that Danish courts rarely show criminal foreigners in connection with convictions for social fraud. The authors point out that part of the explanation is that the vast majority of judgments are conditional and therefore there is no right of expulsion after the extended expulsion. I do not want to start dealing here with the level of punishment in cases of social fraud, but I would like to make it clear that social fraud is an area on which we in the government are focused. This also bears witness to the multi-year agreement on the finances of the police and prosecutors, to which the proposers refer in the motion for a resolution. This is precisely where money has been set aside to strengthen the fight against social fraud. In this context, the parties to the agreement agree to launch a pilot project of two years duration, in which three selected police circles are strengthened with a total of six years' work dedicated teams for the fight against social fraud. At the end of the text of the agreement, it states that in parallel, a review of the level of penalties must be carried out in cases of social fraud, including the possibility of making a claim for expulsion. This is a police agreement, including this section, which we are very pleased about, and we would like to wait for that work before we deal with the level of punishment for social fraud. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104545	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104548	Thank you. I have to say that I had hoped for a little more, what to say, interplay by the government. Because, as the Minister himself says, it is part of our agreement that we entered into in the police settlement. When you look at the figures, you can see that only one person has been expelled for the last 20 years for committing social fraud, and here are foreigners • when we speak foreign nationals • violently over-represented compared to others. It is people who come here and consume solidarity without contributing to the community, and quietly it undermines the support that we in New Citizens would like to have for what we call bourgeois solidarity, so that we help each other across social and geographical divides, because we share a community of values. It's being quietly undermined by these people. So I just have to ask if what the Minister is saying is that now you've shot this thing to the corner and then you wait for something. Or does the Minister think what we have agreed in the police conciliation, namely that we must ensure that the punishment is tightened up, so that foreigners are expelled to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104701	Well, we mean every word in the text of the agreement that I have here, including a review of the level of punishment in cases of social fraud, including the possibility of claiming expulsion. Of course that's clear. That inspection isn't a jam jar. It must, of course, be implemented, and it is not for fun; it is for the purpose of discussing whether the rules should be changed. I would also like to say that, in relation to the work we have started in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, on the expulsion rules in the Aliens Act, where we consider that there is some air between the existing expulsion rules and what is the case law of the international courts, we would also be able to be inspired by some of what New Citizens write in this resolution, which is of course about whether there is any possibility of going further when it comes to social fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104758	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104800	Thank you. Can the Minister say anything about when this study is expected to be ready? How far is one with the work and has one gone at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104811	I will probably have to refer here to the Ministry of Justice, which is the Ministry which has concluded the agreement. But these annual work to be devoted to the police circles is about setting up some dedicated teams for the fight against social fraud. Now I'm just trying to read quickly whether it's actually in the deal: mid 2021. It can't be long. I guess we're already with one leg inside mid 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104847	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. This is how the rapporteur can begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510104909	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, new citizens are proposing that necessary legislation be put in place so that in future any criminal conviction of social fraud will lead to the expulsion of foreigners. In social democracy, we believe that social fraud undermines our welfare model. The social benefits are financed by taxpayers and are based on a temporary period for people who are in a situation where they need help. If taxpayers do not trust the legitimate use of their tax dollars, then, of course, the willingness to contribute disappears. In other words, this is an extremely important issue which new citizens address with the resolution. Foreigners' law is clear in comparison with foreigners who commit social fraud. If you receive an unconditional sentence for social fraud, you will be expelled from Denmark no matter how long you have been here in Denmark. If a foreigner has resided in Denmark for less than 5 years and receives a suspended sentence for social fraud, he or she will also be expelled. As I have already mentioned in connection with other motions for resolutions to tighten the rules on expulsion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is examining whether there is a possibility of further tightening the legislation so that more criminal foreigners can be expelled within the framework of our international obligations. Social democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105034	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Yeah, that's when I thought they'd be on their way, too. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105046	Thank you. Following on from what the Minister says, I actually think that we are dealing here with something that we have almost agreed to do. I agree that the motion for a resolution then says 'always' and that it must be consistent, and that is when the government says that there are international conventions that protect people who come here, live on passive support and cheat on the Danish tax dollars. It is, of course, the decision of the government and the Social Democrats, but the question is whether, in this case, one could not land somewhere else, namely in a report. We have a common starting point, which is that this has to be investigated. And I also hear that there is a willingness that these people should not let go without having real consequences. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105134	As part of the committee's work, we have to see whether we can find common ground in a report. I am not going to reject that in advance, but I would also just like to say that it is one of the things that counts for us perhaps to be able to land a report, because it is not, of course, because we are so different in this way, whether social fraud should have consequences. In other words, there are already people who are being deported for social fraud, and we shall be doing so both in terms of unconditional and conditional sentences, even if we have been here for a short time, and that is the way it should be. If we can manage to arrive at a report, then I think that would be a fine solution, but we will have to discuss this in committee and see if it is a viable way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105216	So, thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Now there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. Rasmus Stoklund Pernille Vermund has only had one). I'm sorry, that was just the first one to apologize. Rasmus Stoklund I just thought it was because I got off cheaply). Of course, there is another point. It's the President's fault. Here is another comment for Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105242	It's okay. Well, it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that people can already be expelled today, but when I look at the figures here and these are figures from the Criminal Register I see that there is only one case in the last 19 years when a foreigner has been sentenced to expulsion for social fraud, and that is in spite of the fact that in the years 2001-2019 there are 764 foreigners who have received at least one conviction for social fraud. In other words, if you care both about our welfare system and if you think that there is something wrong in foreign policy, I think this should be an eye-opener, including for social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105324	I also think it sounds like some spectacular figures. I do not know them enough for me to take too much care of them here from the platform, but we certainly need to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105335	Then I can say thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Morten Dahlin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105350	Thank you, President, and thank you to the new citizens for tabling this motion for a resolution. Social fraud is a pretty serious offense, and it is because it is a breach of the social contract that we have with each other in Denmark, which is that you should not leave your house and home if you lose your job. It's like what society signed in the contract. What you sign for yourself is so in return that you are available for the labour market and that you take the job that comes and that you comply with the rules that are too few paid social benefits. If we then see that there are people and that there are people in the debate we are having right now, who are breaking this social contract and thus usurping some money that is not due them, then it must have a consequence, and it should be a tough consequence. We just have to remember who's the real victim here. It can often be the case that when it comes to the fact that it is the Treasury that is the victim, it gets a little faceless. In reality, however, they are the people most in need of help, in other words, those we have set up our social system for, who are most cheated when social fraud is committed, because time and money and resources are spent on paying out funds to people who are not entitled to them. And it is then time and money and resources that are being taken from people who actually need help and whom we have jointly adopted in here a set of rules to help and support. Therefore, there must be a tough consequence when you commit social fraud. Of course, if you are a foreigner, and that is why I am glad that we in the Left, at least in part, had our demands through the citizenship negotiations that have just taken place, that foreigners who commit social fraud should have considerably more difficulty in obtaining Danish citizenship. That was a demand on the part of the Left, and it was at least partially met by the other parties to the agreement, so we are, of course, pleased about that. We also take a positive view of what is in this motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party. Especially when we look at the figures and see that there are very, very few foreigners who are actually being expelled for social fraud. Because we believe that if you come to Denmark and commit gross social fraud, for example. systematic, organized undeclared work while receiving cash benefits, so we have to take part, and the Left would like to do so to a much greater extent than today show these people out of Denmark. That is why I hope that was also a bit of what I could hear in the debate between Mr. Rasmus Stoklund and Mrs Pernille Vermund before that one might actually end this resolution in a report that points in the right direction in terms of getting more people shown out. Because I would also like to be honest and say that, as it stands here, we cannot fully support the proposal. And why can't we? It is because we believe that there are parts that are disproportionately, and I think Pernille Vermund knows what parts it is. And it is with the fact that in the motion for a resolution and in the comments on the motion for a resolution there is every sentence of conviction. I have done some field work in the area and found out, for example, that in 2016 someone in Denmark was fined 900 DKK. for social fraud. This does not mean that he or she has committed nothing serious; after all, it is an offense that is so serious that the court has imposed a fine on him or her. But I'm gonna have to pay 900 kroner. is there a need for expulsion? We don't think that's proportional. So to sum up: We have a problem with social fraud in Denmark. We also have a separate problem of social fraud committed by foreigners. It is a serious offense because it is a breach of the social contract. We think that more of those who commit this offence should be deported and, in particular, those who commit gross and systematic social fraud, we are all too mild today. We hope so, and after the exchange that took place just now, perhaps I also have a belief that it is possible to do so, so that we can find a political lead towards having more of the foreigners who commit such offences expelled from Denmark. So let me finish off on the positive note and say, and I hope we can agree on that in the committee process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105817	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105822	Thank you for that and thank you for coming to a positive conclusion. And we know that there is a large majority in the Folketing who see these conventions as almost such sacred writings. And that's what it is. If we can land it here in a report which means that we are moving over there, where more people are being expelled to commit social fraud, then we are some way down the road, after all. I'd like to ask you about this case from 2016 and a fine of DKK 900. For some of the problem today is that social fraud is being judged very mildly. We distinguish quite clearly, and also in the comments on the motion for a resolution, between errors, i.e. people who are going to write one and think something else, everything that can happen to every fraud and then the real fraud, that is, real fraud. However, when we talk about real fraud and fraud, there are very mild penalties today. Could the rapporteur not tell us: what was the offence? What had been done, that is, the person who received a verdict in 2016 and who was fined 900 DKK.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510105926	I wish I could. The verdicts are anonymized in the parliamentary reply I have here. So I do not have a list of the minimum and maximum penalties that have been granted in relation to social fraud alone. And I can also reveal, that is, at the other end, where I believe that Mrs Pernille Vermund and I fully agree that someone has been fined EUR 356 000. So we're up in something that's pretty rough coming, so it ranges in the years I've found numbers from 900 kr. for 356,000 kroner. And the idea of punishing social fraud harder and ensuring that we get rid of the mild sentences is one that we fully agree to. In fact, we ourselves were also in favour of the change in employment legislation which, some years ago, made it easier for municipalities to manage how to sanction social fraud. And, as such, a limit was also laid on when to report it, thereby taking up the time of the police and the courts, so that, to be honest, a little more over with some of the minor cases where one could well see that this was a mistake or at least something that would have been a very, very mild sanction, so that instead of using the time and resources to strike where it is gross and systematic. And I think we should go further on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110038	Then there were no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110100	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the motion for a resolution, which we very much welcome. After all, we in the Danish People's Party have long fought for a strict immigration policy, and in many respects it is by succeeding in stopping the influx. We are not in the end, but very much progress has been made. So where the real debate and the real problem lie today is, after all, to have people repatriated, to have foreigners repatriated and to have criminal foreigners expelled. So the aim of striking down on social fraud, which is a subversive crime against our Danish country, where we have a great deal of sympathy with each other, is to crack down on this type of crime. We have great sympathy for this, and we must ensure that foreigners who commit this type of crime can actually be expelled at the same time. This is precisely something that we are very much in favour of, and there is, in reality, not the big problem that some people are looking at too softly on social fraud as crime. The major problem is the international conventions, and that is where the new debate lies. That is what new border controls are, if I may say so, in the future. For now, fortunately, we have temporary border controls at least, but in the field of aliens, it is the conventions that are the very big hurdle for a long-term solution to the problem. So it is the conventions that we have to do away with, and that is also what makes many parties in here unable to support this proposal: it goes across the international conventions. But we believe that the international conventions are less important than Denmark's freedom and the Danes' security. So we would very much like to help put the international conventions aside, get out of them in a sensible way, so that we can exactly expel people who commit crime in Denmark. So in those words, we are very much in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110331	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110335	Thank you. Firstly, I would just like to thank you for your support, and secondly, I would like to say that I fully agree. I have already said, and there I think we also agree, that maintaining international conventions when we talk about the expulsion of criminal foreigners can mean quietly losing our support for the legal system we have, because the Danes are sitting out there thinking why they are not being expelled. There were 794 offenses, as this case revealed a few weeks ago. There are two foreigners who are being convicted and they are not being expelled. Then there is some EU relationship that means that they cannot be sent out. Here I would venture to claim that we are also in danger of losing support for our welfare system in such a fundamental way, because we are seeing calmly how control, bureaucracy and so on. Sneaking in as there are people who come from outside, finding holes and finding out what to say, swindling at the Danes' money. And if we once again have a situation here where international conventions are allowed to dictate how we fit in, could I agree with the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110450	I fully agree with that. There are many devastating consequences of international conventions, and one of them is precisely to undermine confidence that we have a functioning legal system when a criminal's human rights or the possibility of being with his family are higher than the Danes' security. Then it is clear that you cannot trust the Danish legal system. It's making fun of people. There are also many other negative consequences of the international conventions, for example. It is, of course, an undermining of our democracy that we in the Folketing cannot change the international conventions and that those who can change the international conventions are some who sit outside Denmark. And these are very often judges, because they are the ones who are developing the activist parts of international conventions. So it is also a huge democratic problem. This must be done if we are to be able to pursue a pragmatic and sensible foreign policy which will save Denmark in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110557	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare the platform for the next rapporteur? Thank you. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110618	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that social fraud is deeply subversive to society. That is what the authors of the motion for a resolution says, unsolidarous. I would also like to make it clear, as I did earlier in my speech to the other motions for resolutions, that we in the SF do not believe that foreigners who commit serious crime have anything to do in Denmark. We want to help look at how more criminal foreigners can be expelled, but this must be done within the framework of Denmark's international obligations and after careful consideration. What matters is that we find the right balance. However, this motion for a resolution hits next to the dial. Firstly, I am very sceptical about whether this proposal can be adopted here without us going against human rights. New citizens have made this clear in the past that they do not think it is so important, but there I do not surprisingly disagree. Human rights are one of the most precious things we have. Secondly, I believe that the resolution will kick down. The proposal is aimed at some of society's most vulnerable citizens. What about the many clever financiers, tax advisors and business owners who deliberately cheat on taxes or cynically exploit regulatory gaps in order to avoid paying to the community? But the worst thing about the proposal is that it risks hitting people who make mistakes with immensely severe consequences. However, I am pleased and surprised that the proposers are suddenly very concerned about solidarity. I would like to remind Mrs Pernille Vermund and her colleagues of this about the next time we discuss welfare or taxation or the reform of the financial sector. The SF cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110755	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110759	Thank you. I have full respect for the fact that the SF sits on the other side of this Chamber and means something other than New Citizens. But frankly, it is quite clear from the comments here that we are clearly distinguishing between errors and real fraud. So why come up with a strawman saying that this risks hitting ordinary, innocent people at the bottom of society when we point out precisely in the comments that they are not the ones that need to be hit? And, by the way, they are not being hit either, as the system is today. That was one question. The next question is: does the rapporteur really think it is right to draw international conventions into an area where we can see that there are very, very mild penalties for people who, for a large part, also commit all kinds of other forms of crime? In other words, there is a huge correlation between people who cheat on public services and gang members etc. etc. In other words, does the rapporteur and the SF really not think that there is room for moving on to something here? Do we always have to hold on to achieving, yes, something called international conventions, while we are blind to the fact that there are some people who are precisely subversive to the weak people in our society, who particularly need help, and when there are these gang members and others who are scamming public services? Well, why do you want to take care of that segment of our population? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510110928	SF has no particular desire to look after gang members. Moreover, I think that is a strawman speaking of what the rapporteur accused me of earlier. And in relation to errors versus fraud, I would like to say that I am in favour of making a distinction on the part of New Citizens, but it may be difficult in some situations, and there may be people who make mistakes, who then end up in a category of fraud, and that may have some very violent consequences, and we are concerned about that. Yes, I think it is, because we should not break human rights. This is one of the most precious things we have, and we think it is very important that we take this into account when we make legislation here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111009	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111010	However, when I mention gang criminals, for example, it is clear from the motion for a resolution that a very large proportion of those convicted of social fraud, i.e. not errors, but social fraud, are also convicted of other matters, namely serious matters. It is almost half, and then it is not the single mother who is going to put a flybone wrong on citizen.dk. I think we can all recognise the types of things we are talking about here, and it's crazy from our perspective if you on the left say that now we have this system, and then you just have to be allowed to have to go and go with it. In other words, do you not at all recognise that there is a risk that support for our welfare system will disappear if we do not take hard action against those who deceive and deceive with social means?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111104	Yes, I accept that it can threaten our welfare societies if we do not take a hard stand against social fraud. And that is also why I believe that social fraud is a major problem, especially when it is gang members who do it, in other words, criminalising while they are on cash aid. Well, I take that very, very seriously. But that does not mean that a proposal should be adopted in exactly the form proposed by the new citizens here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111128	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111209	Thank you for the floor, President. The motion for a resolution here proposes that in future any criminal conviction of social fraud should lead to expulsion of foreigners. When the courts determine a judgment, it may be an unconditional judgment, a conditional sentence or a penalty. Social fraud is a serious type of crime I am sure we all agree in here that Denmark is built on the fact that we have a social security network that grabs those who need special help. That is why it weakens the confidence in the social contract when someone cheats on public services and thereby cheats the community because we jointly pay taxes, taxes and other things to help those who need help, not those who cheat the treasury. We have just had two other motions for resolutions on expulsions, and that is why I am not going to repeat everything I said in the last debate we had, but it is the opinion of the Radical Left that we are currently going very close to our obligations under international law. We have no desire to protect any person who has to do with this kind of crime, but we do have a wish that we respect our legal obligations, of course. That is why the Radical Left is not going to support this resolution, and I welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they do not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111401	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111405	Thank you. It is true that in a number of areas, for example. gang-related crime and other things have tightened up the penalties in recent years, but this is actually an area in which virtually nothing has been done, in other words where we can clearly see that there is an increasing proportion of special foreigners who are scamming us not making mistakes, but are scamming us by social means, and where we have some provisions in our criminal law that make it virtually impossible for there to be any consequence. Then there are some of them who get a fine, but to be so completely indifferent to how to cheat on other people's money and then be allowed to just stay in Denmark and maybe even be allowed to continue living on passive support, does it not arouse some kind of, if not outrage then after all wonder in the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111507	I'd say I'm not offended by it when someone cheats. I am deeply appalled by it. I think it is unacceptable for someone to cheat on public services and on public funds, basically because that is what our social contract is built on. We are paying into the welfare society so that the people who need help, the elderly, people with disabilities, people who are in hospital, etc. can get the help they need. So it is, of course, deeply unacceptable with people who cheat on it or cheat on the corona aid packages. In relation to what the questioner asks, among other things. I would like to say that I think we must look at this, but that is not what the resolution is about here; it is about expulsions in particular. However, if there are some examples of judgments where it can be seen that there is a system in which the penalty framework is generally too low for social fraud, then of course we need to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111611	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111612	Well, things are kind of connected. Well, it's typical that if you get a very mild sentence or punishment and if you get a suspended sentence, it's harder to do too. On the other hand, in the areas we talked about earlier, rape, violence and so on, it is easier to demonstrate, because there are proportions between the punishment you are given and then a demand for expulsion. So in this way, you have to, like, push our perception of whether this is something where you can just say that yes, it is also a pity that he is doing this with our means, but that he is getting away with it, or whether we are actually taking this seriously, partly because it is other people's money, partly because it is also a prerequisite for us to have a welfare system that works in 5, 10 or 50 years' time for those who most need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111710-2	I don't think it's just bad for somebody to cheat on public services. I think that is deeply unacceptable. But I'm really happy with the word slave, because I think it covers a lot of facets, and you can use the word slave when it's really hard, and you can also use it to such a slightly milder degree, when something is just a slave. I think we agree that it should be used here in such a very sharp form when we mention the word slavery. The questioner also mentioned that some people who commit social fraud may also commit gang-related crime, and if you do, there is a much higher penalty for it, and that means that if the conditions are there, it can result in expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111750	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111818	Thank you, President. And thank you to New Citizens for a very nice proposal here. I think that the examples of New Citizens speak their very clear language. In fact, one of the most glaring examples in the proposal here concerns a woman who had cheated on the rules of child pay and threatened her daughter with a kitchen knife, and the reason why the woman was not expelled was apparently that she had been in Denmark for over 5 years. Exactly the time discount, that is, the attenuating fact that a criminal alien has been in the country for over either 5 or 9 years, wants Conservatives to remove. In fact, we will have that on the agenda shortly in this Chamber. But we also read the proposal here, as that even a simple fine for violating the rules for example. We must automatically lead to expulsion. I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund used the example before that it could be by putting a flybone wrong on citizen.dk. We may just think that this is violent enough, but we are happy to support the strengthening and expulsion of serious social fraud. And exactly that balance we hope to find with New Citizens in committee very much like in a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111926	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510111931	Thank you. Thank you for your support. But now it has been mentioned here sometimes, so I have to say that the comments on the motion for a resolution, which I expect everyone has and has also read, say quite clearly: the authors of the proposals note that citizens who receive social benefits are not, of course, prosecuted and should not be prosecuted for errors or error. Nothing in this resolution changes the fact that citizens who make mistakes are not social impostors. I just want to make that clear. And then it says: 'In the case of social fraud, it must be proved without any reasonable doubt that a citizen has deliberately tried to cheat on a service to which the citizen knew that the citizen was not entitled. I am just saying this to make it clear that this is not the purpose of the resolution, nor is the purpose of the resolution, that the jungle of a system of benefits that we have should have the consequence for citizens. Well, if you make a mistake, which I think is natural, as the trouble as it is, so we also want you to correct it, then of course it should not result in severe punishment, or that it is a fraud. So that was just a comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510112036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510112037	Thank you. I think we are in agreement on this, but the reason why we say that we want to discuss it here in committee is, among other things, that if there is a minor offence which results in a fine, then perhaps we should look at exactly where we are going to cut the cut. However, I think that this proposal is a very clear example of the need to tighten up significantly, especially when it comes to serious social fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510112101	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Since I do not see any more rapporteurs from other parties in the Chamber, it has already become the rapporteur for the proposers' turn to put on the floor. Welcome to Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510112122	Over the centuries, citizens have together created the moral code and the values that we share with each other in Denmark today. This solidarity between citizens is the result of a national attitude shaped by both our geographical borders and our common history. When we Danes feel a community across the country, it is because we can see ourselves in each other. We share something bigger than ourselves. We feel instinctively connected in a sense of solidarity. Therefore, it is a prerequisite for continued support for a modern welfare society in Denmark that citizens have an understanding of the Danish community. If the feeling of community disappears, then solidarity across geography and social classes also disappears. And solidarity is the Community feeling which is the prerequisite for solidarity between citizens is today under pressure from immigration and a welfare state that has lost sight of its purpose. When we absorb too many people who do not understand and respect and contribute to the community, we lose the cohesion and sense of belonging to each other. Civil solidarity crumbles when too many abuse and exploit it to receive public services without becoming or being part of society. Trust between citizens is being reduced to the detriment of individuals and the community, but the need for laws, rules and controls is increasing. It is essential for the legal perception of citizens and for the economy that social benefits are not paid to citizens who are not entitled to benefits. In Denmark, foreigners account for a large part of the social fraud, but they are virtually never deported for their fraud with Danish tax dollars. That is why we in the New Citizens' Party are today putting forward proposals to tighten up the penalties, so that in future convictions for social fraud will lead to expulsions for foreigners. Since 2010, there have been approximately 1,200 charges for social fraud committed by foreigners. In the period 2010-2019, 444 foreigners have received a verdict on social fraud. Sampling at Copenhagen Airport in 2019 showed that 53.8%. of those who were exposed in travelling on holiday, at the same time as raising either cash benefits, cash benefits or integration benefits, had a foreign background, i.e. more than half. Over the years 2001-2019, 764 foreigners have received at least one conviction for social fraud. Of the 764 persons, 335, when they received the latest judgment on social fraud, either in the past or in the context of the latest judgment on social fraud, received a judgment on other crime. This means that almost half of the foreigners convicted of social fraud are already criminals. Exhibiting social fraud can therefore not only help to beat welfare benefits to the weakest in society but also prevent other crime. The courts have the possibility of expelling fraud, but unfortunately there is only one case in the last 19 years in which a foreigner has been sentenced to expulsion for social fraud according to the criminal record's information based on promulgated judgments. This is due to the fact that the vast majority of sentences are conditional and that unconditional imprisonment is, in practice, confined to cases where more crimes are committed at the same time. Any foreigner who receives a social fraud conviction must in future be expelled, regardless of whether the judgment is conditional or unconditional. When it has been proved by a court that a foreigner has deliberately fraudulentd social security benefits, the social impostor must, of course, leave the country. We would like to make it clear that citizens who receive social benefits will not, of course, be prosecuted and should not be prosecuted for errors or error. Nothing in the resolution we are tabling today changes the fact that citizens who make mistakes are not social impostors. In the case of social fraud, it must be proved without any doubt that a citizen has deliberately tried to cheat on a service to which the citizen knew the citizen was not entitled. For new citizens, increased efforts were made against foreigners who cheat on social benefits, an important part of the agreement on the police and prosecution economy that we entered into this winter. With the agreement, we set aside funds to strengthen the fight against social fraud. The aim is to ensure that citizens, including gang members who are frauds by social means, are more exposed and prosecuted. The agreement also provided for us to look subsequently at how we can ensure that more foreigners convicted of social fraud can be expelled. But the government has not yet made a proposal. That is why we are now putting forward ours, and we hope and believe that it can quietly speed things up. I would like to thank the DF for its full support and to the Left, Conservative and Social Democrats for their positive approach, though with some reservations. In the light of today's debate, we will try in committee to arrive at a joint report, a report which says that more foreigners than today must of course be expelled if they are convicted of social fraud. For us in New Citizens, the goal is clear: Foreigners should not be allowed to come here and cheat on social benefits. If they do, they must be judged and judged consistently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510112734	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510112803	The debate is open. I notice that it is approaching 11.30 a.m. About 2:00 a.m. 12.00 there will be a lunch break, but now we see how the momentum is here in the treatment. I can now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510112822	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council and thank the Radical Left for tabling this motion for a resolution to reinstate the previous rule of the law of citizenship, so that young foreigners born and raised in Denmark again have easy access to Danish citizenship. It is less than a year since we last stood in this Chamber and dealt with a similar proposal, and our view has continued in the government that we cannot support the resolution. I would like to reiterate that, in the view of the government, the previous access to the declaration did not work well enough. There were, for example: no training or character requirements were made for persons aged between 18 and 19. In addition, it was not included in the assessment that the Police Intelligence Service should assess whether young foreigners could be a threat to the security of the State, nor was it a requirement that those persons should have a permanent residence permit. The motion for a resolution states that police intelligence must assess whether young foreigners may be a threat to the security of the state, so I would just like to say a few words about it. Paragraph 44 of the Constitution contains what is called a delegation ban, which means that it cannot be left to administrative authorities to decide on the granting of citizenship. Paragraph 44 of the Basic Law does not prevent the adoption of legislation which allows a person to obtain Danish citizenship by declaration when certain objectively verifiable conditions are met and no discretion is left to the authority responsible for deciding whether the conditions are met. However, in the case of applications for citizenship by naturalisation, the Police Intelligence Service makes an assessment of whether applicants may be a threat to the security of the State. It is therefore an assessment and such an assessment will not be based solely on objectively verifiable facts. Therefore, there will be no requirement for PET to have considered that the young person who wishes to declare himself Danish is not a threat to the security of the state, as proposed. It is the government's view that it makes sense to seek Danish citizenship on the basis of pre-established criteria that support language requirements, social understanding, democracy, crime, self-reliance, loyalty you know them. The rules on the granting of citizenship are based on a political agreement on which I am pleased that the government, together with the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, has just agreed. Part of that agreement is that the rules on the granting of citizenship also apply to this group of young people. The current rules already take account to a certain extent of young people born and raised in Denmark. It is already the case today that if you have completed the 9th or 10th grade of primary school with a total grade average of 02, then you meet the language requirement. In addition, there are relaxed residence requirements for people who have entered Denmark before the age of 15, including, of course, for those who were born here. The Government is therefore not planning to change the conditions for becoming a Danish citizen. As I have mentioned earlier, I personally would not regard it as either dismissive or discriminatory if I lived in a country and my child, who was born and raised in that country, had to meet certain requirements in order to obtain the nationality of that country. That is why I think it is right for us to make demands on young people who have been born and raised here in Denmark and who want Danish citizenship. There are already, as I said, relaxed rules on access to citizenship for young people born and raised in Denmark. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal. We look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113157	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113203	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. The Minister believes that the government meets the convention requirement that it should be easier for children born in the country to obtain citizenship than for adults coming to the country. However, the Institute for Human Rights believes the opposite. They come to the opposite conclusion: Denmark does not fulfil international obligations that it should be easier to obtain citizenship for people born in the country. There are in several European countries what we call a limited jus soli, for example. in France, where a child born in France by foreign parents becomes a national at the age of 18, provided that the child lives in France and has lived in the country for five years. There are also Germany, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal and England. So could the Minister consider following the European Convention and the examples of the European countries mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113312-2	In fact, I was just browsing around the report from the Institute for Human Rights, and I would like to maintain that we in Denmark live up to the commitments we have in this area. I also think that I mention in the speech that there is a relaxed access for young people to obtain citizenship than there is for the rest, in relation to the residence requirement, and we recognise that they comply with the language requirement if they have passed the 9th or 10th class of 02. But that is the law in the discussion we have now, which is of course relevant, because we must abide by the rules that we have agreed to. But I also think that there is the political debate, and there I myself feel that sometimes it is very healthy to turn the debate upside down and to imagine that we were foreigners and lived in another country with our children. I usually think of Portugal, and I don't know why. Let us assume that I lived in Lisbon, and I have just had a daughter a year and a half ago. If she were born in Portugal, she would have been born a Danish citizen. If, at some point, she wanted to become a Portuguese national or a double citizen, would it not be fair to say that she had to go to a test in Portugal and show that she knew a little about Portuguese society before she gained Portuguese citizenship? I wouldn't consider it dismissive. I wouldn't consider it an assault on her. I would consider it quite natural that the Portuguese made that demand. So I also think it is fair that we make that demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113434	Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113435	In Portugal they actually have a system similar to that proposed by the Radical Left here today. The minister mentions the fact that there is a more relaxed residence requirement, but it does not matter because the children covered by our resolution are children who, by their very nature, have been in Denmark for 18 years. So a relaxation from 9 to 8 years doesn't matter. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can explain why the Minister regulates the area of citizenship with agreements, when Article 44 of the Constitution requires legislation, and there is a requirement for regulation in section 43 of the Constitution? Paragraph 43 states that no tax may be imposed, changed or abolished outside the law, and Paragraph 44 similarly states that no foreigner may have the right of entry outside the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113546	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113546-2	I fully understand the question, because it is a rather unnatural procedure and administration that we have in the area of citizenship, but it is precisely because of the provision of the constitution to which the questioner himself refers. That is why every six months a bill is tabled here in the Danish Parliament with an awful lot of names on it. In fact, I believe that last week we have just dealt with a bill of this kind. It is clear that, when the ministry is drafting the bill, we would like to know roughly that there is support in the Folketing for the names appearing on the bill. Therefore, we have concluded a political agreement in advance with a majority in the Folketing, which says that if people otherwise comply with these conditions, you can put the name of the bill, and then the majority in the Folketing can feel confident that the names contained in the bill have either lived up to those conditions or have been granted a derogation in the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Parliament. After all, it is an attempt to avoid that every year we have to adopt 2,000 or 5,000 different legislative proposals here in the Folketing in order to grant citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113646	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113648	Thank you, Minister. As on many other issues in the field of foreigners and refugees, the Free Greens and the government also disagree completely here. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on something. In his speech, the Minister says that when people come here, it is quite fair that demands are made on their children in relation to citizenship tests etc. But is it not the Minister's view that the children born and raised in Denmark are therefore Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113727	I wish it was like that. I really would. But I think that this is not only natural. If I moved to Germany with my children, it would not just be possible to claim that they have become Germans. A great many children born in this country have parents who acquire citizenship, and then children get it automatically with their parents. But there are some people who move to Denmark and are here for 10, 20, 30, 40 years without obtaining Danish citizenship, and it is true that this means that when the children are 18, they are not Danes, but they themselves must apply for it. There are plenty of people who do that every year. Some people do it on these relaxed rules that I told you about before, and they get Danish citizenship. But I think it is important that we do not have an automatic built-in here, but that it is something that is sought and that you meet some requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113817	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113818	But Mr. Minister, it is true that those who come here are not per. automatic are Danes, but the government's approach is a bit like telling those who were born here that we treat you in the wake of your parents. If you are an ethnic Danish and born in Rigshospitalet and you are a Dane with a different background and born in Rigshospitalet, then everything else must apply the same rules. Surely it is not to be blamed for the fact that your parents are from abroad or have come here at some point in time. So I just have to ask one more question: is it the Minister's view that if you were born in Denmark you are of course Danish and not Pakistani, Jordanian, Palestinian or Turkish?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113907	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510113909	With all due respect, I do not think that argument is connected. What if I moved with my wife to France and had a child born in Paris? If there was a Member of Parliament in the National Assembly of France who said that child is not Danish, but per year. definition is French because it was born in Paris, so I'd say, what are you talking about? This is my daughter, she was born of two Danish citizens. I'll decide if she's Danish or not Danish. That's what I'd say. However, as the questioner also says, there are two ways of granting citizenship in the world. There's one by blood, and there's one by dirt, you say popularly. There are some countries that say: If you were born in our territory, you are pr. definition of our citizen. It will typically be countries that also have an immigration history. Then there are other states that say it follows the lineage. And that's how it's always been in Denmark. And I think that, especially in a time of migration and many who move, it is important to stick to the fact that we do not distribute citizenship per year. automatic, but that's something people have lived up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114009	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then the rapporteur begins, and the first party is the Social Democratic Party, so that is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114030	With this resolution, the Radical Left is proposing to enable young foreigners born and raised in Denmark to have easy access to Danish citizenship. In the Social Democratic Party we think it is quite reasonable that we make high demands on people who seek Danish citizenship. One does not necessarily become Danish to be born and raised in Denmark. If you grow up in families in parallel societies in some places in Denmark, it is limited how good the conditions are for becoming Danish. As the rules have been set up today, young people born and raised in Denmark already meet with more lenient requirements, such as: easier language requirements. Here alone they will have completed the primary school's graduation exam with a total average of 02. In the social democracy we believe that people are doing a massive disservice when they fail to make demands on them. We have high expectations of the individual. We have great faith that young people born and raised in Denmark are perfectly capable of meeting the demands that are made when they apply to become Danish citizens. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114133	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114137	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur think that young people should pay just under DKr 4 000? to apply for citizenship? That would not mean much to me or to the rapporteur, but to a young person who, out of a very modest budget, has to find a comparatively huge amount, it seems very unreasonable. After all, this proposal concerns children born and raised in Denmark, i.e. some who have not come here, but children who have been born and raised and, in our opinion, must have the opportunity to become Danish citizens by declaration without having to go through a hedge race are obstacles, while at the same time they hand in school assignments, go to the exam, have leisure and leisure jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114238	I think it is good to have a discussion on the subject, as to whether you were born in Denmark, but the economic side of that I do not understand. Is it less stressful financially if you've come at 4 and then have to pay it than if you were born here? I don't quite understand that. I guess we are discussing citizenship in general and not the economic side of it. I'd like to relate to that, but I don't really see the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114258	Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114259	Well, I quite agree with sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen in that it is quite unreasonable that as a young person who fights with it all on a very, very small su, more than half of the modest budget available for a month should be found. You have to find money for books as well as for food. The question is whether you have any money at all for the rest of the month. But I'd like to ask Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, about Lars Aslan Rasmussen, has a remark that there are more young people with a foreign background in education than the average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114347	The radical rapporteur said that I agreed that it was too expensive. Actually, I wasn't. Now there was a little Kristian Hegaard in it. Actually, that's not what I said. I think it is quite unreasonable that you should pay an amount when you are going to be a Danish citizen. I just said that it must be equally stressful, regardless of who you are, if we are talking about the budget. But to put some money, I think it's fair. I agree that there are young people who have an education and who are seeking Danish citizenship. I just think it's quite fine that this is something you actively want and choose for yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114414	The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114418	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can make us wise or at least comment on something. Is it the rapporteur's view that having citizenship gives absolutely fundamental rights to democracy, and that is to be able to vote, to be able to participate? This is probably the most fundamental right one can have in a democratic society. Is that the rapporteur's view? Can the rapporteur comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114454	For me, democracy is not just to vote in parliamentary elections, because you can also be on a school board, you can vote in municipal elections if you want what you can be active in a union, all sorts of things at a workplace if you are a citizen of another country. In fact, you can also vote in the parliamentary elections in the country where you have citizenship, and that could be done, for example. be Turkey, as many people do. So I do not think we are being democratically excluded. But I understand that you want to have citizenship in the country in which you live, and I hope that there are more people who want to actively choose it when they turn 18, either because their parents have not chosen, they have to have it or because they have a long time to get started. We also see some who are up in the 20s before they seek the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114534	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114535	So let me try to ask in another way: can the rapporteur confirm that you can work in Denmark, go to school in Denmark, create a life in Denmark, contribute to Denmark, but if you do not have a Danish passport, you cannot decide how the country should be developed nationally, parliamentaryally, and you cannot be involved in influencing the society to which you contribute, paying taxes and working and living in and everything? Is it not true that, in this way, the most fundamental right of democracy has been deprived of, because you cannot go down and vote in a parliamentary election and you cannot stand for a parliamentary election if you do not have Danish citizenship? Can the rapporteur confirm that there is a fundamental inequality in the fact that one can participate, one can contribute, but one cannot exercise one's right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114626	No, because you can't vote for a parliamentary election if you're under 18. This means that when you are 18, you can apply for Danish citizenship, and then for the vast majority of people born and raised in Denmark it will be relatively easy to get it. Some think it's too easy, some think it's too difficult, but you could get it, and then you'll be able to participate. I would say that the vast majority of people who do not have Danish citizenship have an excellent life in Denmark, and there are also some who do not want it, and there are some who would like to have double citizenship, so I do not think you can put it up so black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114650	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114654	Thank you. I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether the Social Democrats do not believe that it is essential for integration, whether you are a Danish citizen or not, i.e. whether you are welcome in the country in which you were born and raised, as proposed by the Radical Left. Is it not important for integration to have easy access to citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114719	I find that hard to say. Now we have three people in here who come from Nørrebro, and I think I meet people who are Danish citizens and who are very unintegrated and are a member of Hizb ut-Tahrir, and then I know some at my father's age who do not speak very well Danish and who do not have Danish citizenship but who are quite well integrated. Well, I don't think you can say it so black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114751	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114752	It is certainly not my intention to turn this into a black-and-white question rather quite the opposite. Let's try to have a slightly more open-minded dialogue about what citizenship really means to people for all of us and what it means for people who are born and raised Denmark and who have a very, very difficult access to Danish citizenship, an access which only becomes more difficult now following the agreement that Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen's party just made. I think it is a positive factor for integration that it is easier to become a Danish citizen if you are born and raised in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114828	It's not a question of what I think. I have no intention of making any prejudices in the debate, but I just think it is very nuanced. I think there are people who feel like Danish, but who are happy to have their Turkish citizenship, and I think there are some who have Danish citizenship who feel that they Turks. I don't think it's black and white. I'm just saying that I would say that when you're born and raised in Denmark, it's all other things relatively easy to get a Danish citizenship if you meet the general criteria when you're 18.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114853	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510114913	Thank you for that, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left will reinstate the former section 3A of the law on citizenship, which gives foreigners born in Denmark privileged access to Danish citizenship, i.e. citizenship by declaration. This is not the first time we have this discussion in Parliament. We discussed it when the Social Democratic Party sat in government and thought this was an excellent idea. We discussed it when the Left joined the Prime Minister's Office and thought it was such a bad idea that we removed it. Then we discussed it in 2017, when the SF tabled a similar motion for a resolution, and we discussed it as such last year too, when the Radical Left put forward a proposal that without me having to put my head on the block word for word reminds us of what we are discussing here today. Like all the other times, the Left is opposed to this proposal... we have not changed our position. And why don't we? Yes, it is because we think it is quite fair that we make a number of demands on those people who want to be part of the Danish community. The Danish citizenship is something very unique, it is something special, and therefore it is right and proper that we make demands on the foreigners who want to become Danish citizens even if they are born on Danish soil. That is why, like all the other times this proposal has been tabled, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115046	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it is Mrs Susan Kronborg, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115047	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. What is the rapporteur's view that the Left's aim is not to give citizenship by declaration system to young people born and raised in Denmark? What misunderstanding is there in the other European countries that they can find out about giving citizenship to children born and raised in the respective European countries after a limited jus soli? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115117	To that I would like to say two things. So, first of all, the position of the Left is that the reason why we should not do this is that we must have strict requirements for Danish citizenship. What lies in this proposal is that if you were born on Danish soil, but not by Danish parents, then you should have easier access, so that you can obtain citizenship by declaration. We are against this because we think it is a good idea to make strict demands on Danish citizenship. Secondly, the rapporteur asks: what have the other European countries understood that we have not understood in Denmark? Here I think we will come down to a part of the core, in the disagreement between the Radical Left and the Left, when it comes to immigration and integration policy, namely that the Radical Left has a number of European countries as a model for how Danish immigration policy should be. The rapporteur has mentioned France in the past. In other words, I think that France has been pursuing a terrible immigration policy for many years, which has caused France to have massive problems which, fortunately, we do not know to the same extent in Denmark. That is why I simply do not agree with the Radical Left that there are such a large number of European countries where it can be said that they have hit the wrong side of integration policy, and we just have to copy them, so we have to do almost the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115220	Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115222	Thank you very much. I should also like to ask here about the rapporteur's indictment and reference to citizenship as a gift on several occasions. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's comment on whether it really is not to compare a little with getting on the high horse and giving gifts without anyone really knowing when to get that gift. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem that there is no predictability when talking about citizenship as a gift?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115308	No, I don't think so. The rules for obtaining Danish citizenship are quite clear, so it is not the case that you cannot look up the law on citizenship and the right of citizenship circular and read what it takes to become a Danish citizen. So I completely disagree with that. And I think it has been a good tradition, which is also provided for in the Constitution, that ever since the first chairman of the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Fellowship he was called Grundtvig, we have granted citizenship by law in Denmark. I think that is a sensible and wise way of doing that, and I do not think we should change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115338	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115341	Thank you, Mr President, thank you to the rapporteur. It is quite true, as the rapporteur said, that we have discussed this very many times. I know the rapporteur's position, and the rapporteur knows my position. We know where we stand in relation to the proposal. That is why I would like to learn a little more about something else, and I think that applies to people out there too, in order to have a nuanced debate. If the Left, the rapporteur thinks, acknowledges the Left, the rapporteur recognizes, despite the position that we now have and have come to the conclusion that there must of course be a lot, indeed thousands of young people, out there thinking: Hey, I was born in Denmark. This is my country. That's what I know. Why, then, is it that I cannot automatically have what ethnic Danish children can have? This is my country. I am not asking about the position; I just want to know whether the rapporteur can recognise and can follow that there must be some young people out there who simply cannot understand this and who think: why is it that I cannot get it like everyone else? Why is it that you look at me differently? You may then have the position you have, but can the rapporteur put some words on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115446	I would hope that there are a lot of young people out there with foreign citizenship, but who were born and raised in Denmark, thinking: Denmark is my country. I'm a Dane. This is where I belong. The values on which we have built this society for generations, I feel a great attachment. In fact, I feel so attached to them that I feel Danish. I would hope that there are lots of people who do, and I also know that a lot of people do. And my message to them must just be: so make sure you live up to the demands, and apply for Danish citizenship, then you can have it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115520	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115520-2	It is fine that this should be the way it should be, but does the rapporteur recognise that some people have to sit out there and think that this is not fair? I have another question that I will be quick to ask, and I hope that the rapporteur will try to answer both my questions. Will the rapporteur recognise that whatever is right to do here and where you stand, we are making a fundamental difference here between those who are ethnically Danish and those who have Danish minority backgrounds and were born here? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115600-2	First: No, I do not recognise that it is unfair because we think it is fair to impose strict requirements in order to obtain Danish citizenship. So basically: No, it is not unfair that we have the rules that we have today. And for the second part: Well there is You have one set of rights when you are a Danish citizen, and you have one set of rights when you are not a Danish citizen. So there's a difference, and that's fair too. That's how it's supposed to be. So to talk that discrimination up like it's a problem, I don't think you should. If you did discrimination based on people's skin color or something, it would be a huge problem, and then we would shout guardly in arms. But of course there is a difference between whether you are a Danish citizen or whether you are not a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115647	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. We will also bring the next rapporteur here before the lunch break, if Members agree that it will be just a few minutes over 12 minutes, at least to be expected. Welcome to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115707	Thank you. I can hear there is no expectation that I will give a very long speech to the rapporteur, and I will then try to live up to those expectations. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution. We do not think that citizenship should be given to people who are not known to be Danish. I have lived abroad for years with young children. We lived in Russia, and my little children did not become Russians by living there for three years. Nor was it intended, for my family was a small piece of Denmark that was posted to Russia for a period of time. Unfortunately, it is the case in Denmark today that we have a lot of people from the Middle East who feel posted in Denmark without any desire to absorb the Danish culture. If those families have children in Denmark, their children do not necessarily become Danish. Some do because the parents themselves actively do what they can to become Danish and become Danish citizens, and then their children also become Danish, because they then follow as secondarys and get Danish citizenship. But if you do not, it is clear that you do not become a Danish citizen, and why should you also become a Danish citizen. That is why I think it is quite reasonable to have abolished the access to the declaration and to have made it a little harder to become a citizen. Of course, you have to prove some things to get citizenship, because it is not the case that you are a Dane, just because you were born in Denmark. It's not like that anymore. We have ghettos where the vast majority are not Danes at all, do not want to be and may not be. So we cannot under any circumstances support this resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115856	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a desire for short comments. It's for Mrs. Susan Kronborg, in the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115902	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. It is about the children who have been born and raised in Denmark that the rapporteur believes that it must be crucial to obtain citizenship, whether their parents have succeeded in becoming Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510115919	It is, of course, already so, so it is the case that if their parents become citizens, the children will be included as bi-participants, so that is crucial. I myself think that too many people are given citizenship in Denmark, so I would like to see greater demands made. I mean, I think it's too easy to come as a second person, for example, who I would like to have that when people are born in a foreign family, you might have made extra demands, because you cannot be sure that people are Danish when they, for example, are Danish. was born in a ghetto in Denmark. But it is clear that what parents do is important for their children. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510120000	Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510120001	At the risk of asking a little rhetorical questions, I would still like to know whether Mrs Marie Krarup believes that children born and raised here in Denmark should be supported in becoming nationals as self-employed persons, whether their parents have wanted citizenship and whether their parents have been able to pass Danish examination 2 or 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510120027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510120028	I do not think I fully understood that question. I think we have some rules that are largely sensible. So there are some things missing, and that is also why the Danish People's Party ended up not being part of the last agreement in the area of citizenship, but I do not really see what kind of support one should have. One can fairly easily become a Danish citizen if one is born in Denmark and also wants to become a Danish citizen, and I do not think it should be easier than it already is, so I am not fully aware of what kind of support one is thinking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510120104	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I shall now suspend the sitting. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130006	We will resume the sitting, and we are at item 4 on the agenda, namely a motion for a resolution on the citizenship of young people born and raised in Denmark. We have come to the SF in the rapporteur's series. I welcome Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go, SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130040	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the SF supports the fact that young people born and raised in Denmark must have access to citizenship by declaration. It is a motion for a resolution which the SF has tabled in the past. And yes, there is something special about getting a Danish citizenship and becoming part of the community on an equal footing with the native Danes. It is a privilege and demands must be made on the one who wants to achieve it. But here we are talking about young people born and raised in this country. It is young people who have Danish friends, have gone to a Danish kindergarten and in the Danish school and know nothing else. In this light, it is only fair for them to have Danish citizenship, and for me it is positive about the proposal that young people can feel it from childhood, but also the resulting responsibility, so they will be able to say to themselves that they are becoming Danes and that this is their country. In this way, they do not grow up in an identity vacuum, but gain an understanding of ownership in relation to the country and the understanding that they should take care of the country. The last time Radicals tabled this proposal, we voted against it on the grounds that there was no demand for a clean criminal record and for a PET assessment. It has been included in the resolution, and I am pleased about that. In principle, then, we know whether young people can be radicalised or commit themselves in radicalised environments. It is for me to see a very important detail to include. Because if that is the case, the young person must not be a Danish citizen. The young person will have already renounced this by turning his back on the Danish values and would not want Denmark. Then I would like to inform you that, with these new additions to the motion for a resolution, the SF can support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130241	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130245	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I am very pleased that the SF is positive. I would therefore very much like to hear the rapporteur's comments on the fact that it turns out that these extremely strict rules we have in Denmark actually mean that Denmark is at the bottom. If you compare it with 23 European countries, Denmark is the country at the bottom of the list when it comes to citizenship of refugees and immigrants. Austria actually gave more citizenship than Denmark. By way of comparison, to highlight the percentages of 0.6%. by foreigners in Denmark gained citizenship in 2018, while in Luxembourg it was 4.2 per cent. In addition, I would also like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur has to say about the fact that there are municipalities in Denmark that actually lack labour. For example, in Skanderborg Municipality, the companies are desperate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130352	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130355	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I would say that, to me, it is not about how many citizenships we distribute, but who we give them to. I think that there must clearly be requirements and rules in relation to being granted citizenship and becoming part of the community in one of the world's best countries, for me to see. I also think it is unreasonable to say that Denmark does not provide citizenship. So we have also given citizenship to people who should never have had it. So I clearly believe that there must be reasonable demands for citizenship, because that is the most valuable thing to be able to acquire.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130445	Here you go, Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130447	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that the government has a tighter policy that is counter-productive to our Danish companies, such as Skanderborg Municipality, where companies are really desperate because they do not have enough hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130507	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130508	I think that instead of opening up to foreign labour, perhaps we should try to invest in our own citizens who are outside the labour market, perhaps with an in-service training. We are clearly in the SF advocates that it is our own that we must first and foremost ensure that we get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130534	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That's why we need to get the booze off. Thank you to Halime Oguz, and we shall welcome Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130601	Thank you. Sir. Unfortunately, Peder Hvelplund could not be in the Chamber today, which is why I am here. I would like to begin by thanking the Radical Left for presenting this resolution. I have to say that these are very few times that I have been in the Chamber on motions for resolutions on citizenship, but the other motions for resolutions on which I have been in the Chamber have had a completely different tone and an entirely different agenda. I think it is wonderful that we can also spend some time discussing how it can actually be easier to become a Danish citizen. That young people born and raised in Denmark can obtain Danish citizenship by declaration is an old, well-tested rule. That was all that was missing, because of course young people are Danish when they have had their whole lives in this country. They must have the right to a red-bellied passport and the right to vote, which the rest of us also enjoy. The declaration access system was introduced back in 1950 and until 2004 the VK government, which sat on the Danish People's Party's seats, abolished the scheme for all non-Nordic citizens. When the SRSF government arrived in 2011, it was written into the government base that the declaration access should be reinstated. The flower had apparently not grown in the garden of the Social Democratic Party, so the Social Democratic Justice Ministers took their time to establish this arrangement. In fact, it did not come until 2014, but due to difficulties with an applicant's solution from a previous nationality, the scheme did not work until 2015. That is why it only came to work fully for a few months before the Left Government, as one of the first, took the initiative to abolish the system again, with the support of the Social Democrats. From 2016, young people born and raised in Denmark have again had to go through the heavy, bureaucratic and very expensive procedure to get full civil rights in this country, which is actually the only country they know. When we are to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship for young people, it is not just a political concept that the Radical Left has and which we have in the Enhedslisten. Many others also have that view, and this is something that Denmark has committed itself to in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the Rights of Citizens. After the Left Government has abolished the declaration access for young people born and raised in Denmark, it is frankly difficult to see how we can live up to this obligation, especially when you look at the last birthright agreement entered into by the government with the right wing. With that agreement we have actually ended up in a situation where young people born and raised in Denmark may never be able to become Danish citizens if they are going to make a mistake when they are 15 years old. In order to rectify this agreement, I think that Parliament should adopt this resolution as soon as possible, and I would like to end the speech with a quote from the press release issued by Mrs Karen Hækkerrup, then Minister for Social Affairs, when she presented the SR Government's bill in March 2014 and I quote: Young foreigners born and raised in Denmark who have taken part in Danish society now have the opportunity to declare themselves Danish. The government believes that this group of well-integrated young people should be given easier access to citizenship. It promotes integration. I fully agree with the then Socialist Minister, whom I hope the current Socialist Minister will be inspired by. The Enhedslisten may support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130937	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510130942	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the fact that Denmark's front staff, our social assistants, nurses, doctors, kindergarten teachers, bus drivers, train drivers, are being thanked for their efforts in the national corona situation by being referred to as huge problems in the debate that is and that, thank you, they are told that their children, born in Denmark, should not have citizenship, regardless of the fact that the children in other European countries would have acquired citizenship by means of a limited jus soli.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131033	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131035	Well, of course I am extremely outraged about this, and that is why the Enhedslisten also suggested last year at this time that both exemptions from the handshake requirement were made when you are to become a Danish citizen, but in this way also made exemptions from the employment requirements, both when you apply for Danish citizenship, but also when you apply for permanent residence permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131058	I do not think there are any more brief comments, and I would like to thank Mrs Rosa Lund and welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131122	Thank you, President. Let me start by saying that Conservatives cannot support the proposal here. On the other hand, we are very pleased with the new agreement on citizenship, which we made together with the Social Democracy, the Left and the Liberal Alliance, and if I may put it this way, with at least indirect support that we tightened up, from the New Civil and Danish People's Party, in relation to who can obtain Danish citizenship, or rather who can apply for Danish citizenship. I use the word'seek' here because citizenship is not a right; it is a gift that a majority of this Parliament can grant. We do not think that you should have Danish citizenship if you have received a prison sentence, even if you do not speak properly Danish, nor if you have not had a permanent job for a long time. We would have liked our agreement on citizenship to have made even higher demands, not least for everyone to pass the Danish test 3. We would also like to see individual treatment of each individual case in committee, and we also hope to be able in future to include conversations as part of the process of seeking Danish citizenship. And, of course, we also have a desire to have a ceiling on the number of nationals granted annually for persons outside the EU and the Nordic countries. However, the agreement we reached a few weeks ago is a major step in the right direction. The proposal from the Radical Left will be a major step in the wrong direction and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131248	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131253	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur. We in the Radical Left have as a guiding principle that we adhere to the conventions which Denmark has signed up to, partly because we support the rule of law, including the international ones, partly because a small country like Denmark would be unfavorable if larger and stronger powers, inspired by Denmark, started an international free-booting chaos without regard to international agreements. So I would like to ask: does the rapporteur have a view that the motion for a resolution by Radicals is the way in which other European countries comply with the National Convention that we should make it easier for children born and raised in Denmark on the basis of the jus soli principle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131343	Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131344	After all, there are now different laws on citizenship in the various European countries. In Denmark, citizenship is granted by law by the Danish Parliament here, and that is the only thing that is the overriding principle for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131359	Here you go for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131405	Thank you. I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has a view that military service is one of the most important pillars in Denmark, but that these young people who have been born and raised in Denmark are not included in military service because they do not have citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131428	I really think the minister said very well about the example that if he moved to France with his Danish wife and had a child there, the child was not only automatically French and should not be during the French, but the Danish military service I am not actually aware of whether they have military service in France, but in that case it would be the case. I really think that explains it very well, and I have to say that I agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131453	Thank you. And then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, Outside the Groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131456	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur's speech was mostly about the new agreement that has been reached, rather than about the proposals of radicals. It can be said that the example that the Minister has given and the rapporteur is now following up is, of course, in relation to the fact that you belong to the majority and are not affected by this rule. I am sure that if the rapporteur walked down the street with me anywhere in the country and asked the people who are actually suffering, they would have a completely different approach to this. I just want to hear one thing that I also asked the rapporteur of the Left. We know what our positions are, so I don't think there's anything new in that. But does the rapporteur recognise that in relation to Ole, who was born in the Rigshospitalet, and Fatima, who was born in the Rigshospitalet, there is a fundamental inequality in their rights, in other words in relation to the way in which we have our citizenship rules today? Whether you think it is right or wrong, will the rapporteur not recognise that there is a fundamental inequality? Both are born in Denmark, one is called Fatima, the other is called Ole Ole has automatic citizenship; Fatima doesn't get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131600	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131601	That's not how I look at it. Because if Fatima is born of parents who are not Danish • if they are Somali, to put it that way • well then she is pr. the Minister and his wife move to France.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131621	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131622	But there's a difference there is. You may not want to admit it, but there is a difference. Well, you were born in the country, you go to Danish nursery, kindergarten, school. You work, you get your first boyfriend here, you get married here, you get divorced, you contribute, you can do anything. Then there are choices every four years, and then sit and look at all your fellow human beings; you cannot go down and vote; you cannot go down and press the button to create a better life for your children and your grandchildren. Does the rapporteur not think that there is a difference there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131658	But if that's the way it is, sir. Sikandar Siddique says that you have been born and raised here and actually have taken Denmark to heart and can do the Danish language and contribute to it now the rapporteur himself used that word and, of course, has not committed crime, but then you can get Danish citizenship if you apply for it and the Danish Parliament can feel backing up. It's not like you're cut off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131717	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And then we have to get the alcohol off before we say welcome to the New Citizens' rapporteur. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510131743	For decades a broad majority in the Folketing has thrown around with Danish citizenships to quite incredible many who should never have had it. A little has been tightened up, but in no way imaginable enough. The Danish citizenship is a gift which must be the very, very few for granted. I don't want it to be something that's easy to get. Denmark is already heavily affected by decades of failed immigration policy. It must and must be stopped. And that is why, of course, we must also severely restrict the granting of Danish citizenship. We cannot possibly support this motion for a resolution, because this resolution is an expression of the usual radical naivety. In a judgment of the Copenhagen City Court on 20 April, two young men were convicted of hundreds of different situations, including the rape of a 14-year-old girl. The rape they filmed, just as they subsequently shared the video material on the Internet. If access to citizenship is reinstated under Section 3A, as Radicals here propose, one of the perpetrators would actually be qualified for citizenship under Section 3A. The fact that the perpetrator couldn't get it anyway would only depend on whether the police had discovered the crime in time. In this case, the police could reach it, among other things. because the two foreigners had a habit of filming their crimes, including the rape of the only 14-year-old girl. For a scheme which grants young citizenship, if they have resided in Denmark for 12 years, passed the primary school by 02, is of course not a good assessment of whether some deserve Danish citizenship. And that is why this proposal simply makes no sense. It did not make sense the last time it was put forward, nor does it make any sense now. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries where we know that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here. We do not believe that Danish citizenship should be granted frivolously, but with care and to significantly fewer people than today only to the few who really benefit Denmark. We believe that if you commit crime and get an unconditional sentence of liberty, you should have taken away your Danish citizenship. This is an important part of the task that we have undertaken, namely to resolve foreign policy from the bottom up. It is our duty and our responsibility to ensure that Denmark is also Danish in 100 years' time; we owe it to our children and grandchildren. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132022	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go to Mrs Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132026	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would just like to make it clear that it is not a radical priority to ensure special care for the access of criminals to citizenship as such. This resolution actually excludes criminals. But I would also like to add that the rhetoric in this area is an expression of something very sad and a thought which is approaching an indictment that may seem a little hysterical, because there are a number of blunders. It is, for example. very popular, that one refers to this right of birth as a gift given to selected foreigners; but we very rarely hear about what the gift contains. And that is, of course, if you get citizenship, right of residence, right to vote and obligations such as military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132136	Here you go, Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132137	I couldn't quite see if there was a question in it. I really think that in my rapporteur's speech I quite clearly chalked up relations with him here that he would be qualified, but fortunately this crime was discovered. It is not everyone who, fortunately, was able to say that unfortunately I have the habit of filming their crimes, because that was at least what happened here that he was taken. But I firmly believe that this is an expression of total naivety when one thinks that one is going to relax the allocation of citizenship. It is And far too many citizenships have been distributed for too many years to too many people who should never have had it, and it must simply stop now. And that you can still be so naive in 2021, when you see the crime statistics, you see the unemployment statistics, and when you see what this misguided immigration policy, which has been going on for decades, has massively imposed on Denmark, then you have to get to the head.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132242	Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132243	Thank you very much. I would just like to hear how much the rapporteur talks about criminals, as the resolution does not deal with whether New Citizens will consider helping a girl like Sarah Alsandi. She is a girl who has been forced away from her family, yet has been lured into Iraq by her parents and has fled and is sitting in a safehouse in Iraq. Is this a girl that New Citizen wants to help with citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132321	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132322	I think it's really weird that I have to deal with this. No, I certainly don't think we should. No one needs help with citizenship. Nationality is a gift given to the select few. But, I mean, this specific example; I actually think I saw the programme which dealt precisely with Sarah Alsandi. This is, of course, a concrete example of what this failed immigration policy has brought with it for decades in the form of this rather massive immigration from mostly Muslim countries. Then, unfortunately, we see examples of girls who, as in Sarah's case, are subject to social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132356	Thank you. Here you go, Sikandar Siddique. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132358	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the rapporteur. Nor do I think that the rapporteur's speech was clear; I was in any case in doubt. That is why I would like to ask a question and I hope that we can clarify it. The rapporteur says that Denmark should also be Danish in 100 years' time. Should not minority citizens born and raised in Denmark be granted citizenship because they are not Danish, or should they not be granted citizenship because they commit crime? Both were said. So I just want to clarify why it is that this proposal is not supported. So it is said that Denmark will be Danish in 100 years' time, and at the same time there will be talk of crime. So what's the reason? What are these reasons, or are they both? There was simply a lack of clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132446	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132447	Well, it's always a pleasure to be able to explain again what it is. It's both. In other words, we do not want to allocate citizenship to those who come from Muslim countries that we can see are over-represented in crime statistics. And, of course, it goes without saying that criminal foreigners should not, of course, have Danish citizenship either. It's just common sense. Well, it's self-evident. So it's both.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132508	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132508-2	Okay. So it's also about whether you're a Muslim, and it's also about which country you come from. So this isn't just about crime. It is very good to know that it is also the basis for whether or not to have citizenship. In conclusion, I would like to ask a question and I hope that I can get a correct answer and not a politician's answer. Mrs Pernille Vermund often says when there are rapporteurs up there: let us have a concrete answer and not a politician's answer. I hope I can get that now. Will the rapporteur confirm that the vast majority of people who have acquired citizenship in the last 50 years have not committed crime and have complied with normal rules? It's a small number of people who have committed crime. Will the rapporteur confirm that just yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132552	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132554	No, I don't want to confirm that. I would also like to say that, as far as gang criminals, for example, are concerned, we can see a violent over-representation of descendants from Muslim countries who have been granted Danish citizenship. So, no, the figures speak quite clearly for themselves. It is always a pleasure to be able to say things again, but now I think it has been said very, very many times. It can be said that crime statistics, unemployment statistics, etc. Unfortunately, it speaks for itself, and far too many citizenships have been distributed to too many people who should never have had it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132634	Then there are no more brief comments, and we need to get the alcohol off. Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Well, then it's true that we're going over to sir's office. Sikandar Siddique (UFG) as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132655	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I can tell you that, of course, the Greens support the proposal. We even think we should go further. If you are born and raised in Denmark, you must of course per. automatically have a Danish citizenship. After all, this is essentially about whether or not we see our minority citizens born in this country as equal, as equal citizens, and thus as equal rights. That is, in principle, what this is all about. Young people born and raised in Denmark, who have attended school in Denmark, who work in Denmark, are married in Denmark, whose family is in Denmark, who practice sports in Denmark, who live life in Denmark, must of course have the same rights as everyone else. Try to think about if you were told not to go down and vote in a parliamentary election, try to think about if you were told not to run for a parliamentary election, that you should not be politically active at national level, and that even if you live here, even if your everyday life is here, and that's where your world is going. It is simply unfair, and basically we are talking about inequality. This is inequality. It should not be the case that Ole, who is born in the Rigshospitalet, can automatically acquire citizenship, but that Fatima, born in the Rigshospitalet, cannot have it. That is a fundamental inequality. Two children are born in the same hospital, and one is born with more and better opportunities than the other. That is fundamental inequality, and I would say that it is fundamental discrimination. Therefore, we in the Free Greens believe that minority children born in Denmark should of course have Danish citizenship, so that they can become an even more active part of society, so that they are not excluded from the community, so that we do not make an A and B team, so that we do not say: you may pay taxes and contribute, but rights you should not have, you should not be involved in deciding what your children's future should look like, what the next Denmark should look like. Because it is a fundamental injustice, it is a fundamental discrimination that we must have done away with. So I would just like to thank the proposers and that the Free Greens naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132942	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment here. Here you go, Mrs. Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510132946	Thank you for the floor, thank you to the rapporteur, and thank you for the positive words. We are very pleased about this in the Radical Left. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has any comments on the fact that it appears from the report by the Institute for Human Rights that it concludes that the long way to Danish citizenship is alien to young people, which means that, when you are born and raised in Denmark, I have heard that from several young people, when you find out that you do not have citizenship, and you find that you cannot vote in parliamentary elections. Can the rapporteur comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133033	I absolutely can. I am constantly getting young people on the phone, if not every day, asking me what to do in terms of citizenship. The other day I talked to a 26-year-old young man who is a law student, and he said he doesn't have Danish citizenship. He really, really wanted to participate at national level, but he can't because he doesn't have Danish citizenship, and I think he can only apply for it for a few years because he is studying. Not long ago, I talked to a Danish-somal girl from Aarhus who said she's sorry and it's embarrassing for her that when they go on a study trip, she has a foreign passport and she can't tell why she can't leave the EU, and she's so depressed, and she doesn't know what to do. I could come up with thousands of stories where young people who would like to participate in society are kept out because we privileged people in here have some idea that we are protecting Denmark by keeping them out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133135	Susan Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133136	Thank you. As I have said, I have spoken to many young people who really feel desperate and alienated when it is the case that they discover that they have not citizenship, regardless of the fact that they have been born and raised in Denmark. For example, I have a good friend named Ilknur, who was born and raised in Denmark, she is a trained teacher and has been engaged in volunteering since she was 13 years old. She's even got the Left Freedom Prize. But what is the thanks? None. Ilknur still has to get away from the long road to citizenship. Does the rapporteur have a comment on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133215	If it stood to me, you should invite the citizen in here, give her a citizenship and give her a medal and say a thousand thanks for her efforts, just as we should be doing it to the many, many minority young people who, together with ethnic Danish youths right now, stand at the test centres and take care of us and make an effort, just like all the taxi drivers who are driving around and making sure that the wheels drive around the community while all of us other privileged people are in a protected state at home with our family.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133247	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133251	This is actually a clear question for the rapporteur. I just have to understand: is the policy of the Free Greens that citizenship should be granted to all born on Danish soil?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133304	As a starting point, we believe that all citizens born and raised in Denmark should be granted citizenship, and so I know that the rapporteur very probably wonders: does this mean that you can get on a tourist visa to Denmark, give birth to a child and then say that it should now have Danish citizenship? We are willing to look at how it can be prevented, but basically we believe that the many, many thousands of children and young people born in Denmark, of course per year. A Danish citizenship must be granted automatically.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133338	Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133339	Thank you to the rapporteur for his reply. How long do you have to be here before it is enough to grow up in Denmark in the eyes of the Free Greens? The second question is that, since you have the policy that I believe will be profoundly damaging to Denmark, you must also have an idea of how many additional citizenships it would mean that we should allocate annually.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133406	There are two things. On Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 1: The rules are right now so tight that the Free Greens will agree to any period of time that the Left will set. So if the Left says that you know what it should be for 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, we say in the Free Greens that it is quite fine, we agree, because the rules are as bad as they are today. In addition, the Free Greens believe that citizenship is an inclusion. This means that it will ensure that more citizens enter society, and that is why we have no problem with how many citizenships are allocated. This is about the young people who have been born and raised here, and they must of course have the fundamental right to be able to go down and vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133446	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Will the rapporteur also just take the table down? I think that will be a good gesture for the next speaker, because it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion and she is not quite as high as Mr Tugendhat. Sikandar Siddique. That's great, thank you. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133522	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. In the Radical Left, we believe that children and young people who have been born and raised in this country and who have not committed crime should have easier access to Danish citizenship when they reach the age of 18 or pass the elementary school's graduation examination. The Social Democratic Party and its foreign political support parties, instead of the rule of law, confirm somewhat unconventionally that the granting of citizenship is not a right, but, on the contrary, with their somewhat uncertain wording, is something to be earned, just as one must have chosen Denmark and basic Danish values and legal principles, and that one must be an active part of Danish society, without the parties having bothered to define Danish values and Danish legal principles. A fundamental principle of the Danish rule of law, however, is that the state favours non-elected citizens. Citizens are granted and deprived of rights on the basis of objective, transparent and predictable criteria and never on the basis of an assessment of the applicant's disposition. This applies when we apply for a building permit when we take a driving licence when we are given vaccines, and that will also apply when applying for citizenship. There is a separate requirement for a legal basis in the Constitution. This applies to taxes, and it applies to citizenship, because the constitutional giver knows his lice on the trotting: citizenship must not only be given to those we like, and taxes must not only be imposed on those we do not like, and vice versa. So today, and as always, the Radical Left will defend the rule of law and, of course, cannot support the marked weakening of the fundamental principles that we are hearing about in this debate. I have to say that it appears involuntaryly comical that the government and its foreign political support parties demand that the applicant have opted for Danish legal principles when the parties themselves have obviously not understood what the legal principles cover. Whether the government's citizenship agreement mostly gives reminders of Kafka's trial or King Minos' labyrinth is a matter of taste. The result is the same: that children who are born and raised in Denmark and who become skilled citizens, for example. as front staff during the corona crisis or as my colleagues in the Danish Treasury and Ministry are citizens that Denmark needs. In conclusion, in the Radical Left, we believe that we in the Folketing must show confidence in young people who have been born and raised in Denmark. Denmark is their country, so they must be able to participate in our democratic community. That is why we call on all parties to vote in favour of reintroducing the former section 3A of the birthright law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133834	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133839	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for making this very good proposal. I would just like to say that I have not had the opportunity to work long with the rapporteur, but I am extremely pleased and proud to have a colleague like Mrs Susan Kronborg in the Folketing. What I have seen so far has been really, really good policy. So thank you so much. So I also have to be a little critical, because the rapporteur belongs to a party which is a support party for the government, and even though the rapporteur's speech tried to push away responsibility a little and say that it is the others, it is the rapporteur's party that is the support party. So I have to ask: this is going on on your watch, so how far will the Radical Left let the government go? When does the Radical Left draw a line in the sand and say: no longer than here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133936	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510133937	Thank you very much for the question. This is where the pin falls to the ground! No, it should not be today that we are drawing the support, but I can at least tell the questioner that it hurts right into my legal heart when I see how this area is being completely neglected. So, one will never ever accept in the tax field that agreements are made where there is no legal basis, and that is exactly the same provision in the Basic Law, Article 43 and Article 44, which requires a legal basis. This is simply a scandal. It is a legal vacuum that I am shocked by.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134036	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134036-2	Yes, because the problem is that although the argument from the Radical Left and other supporting parties is usually that there is a large majority in the Danish Parliament about this immigration policy, the truth is that it is also because you do not put your foot down and say: We cannot be a support party for you if you conduct the Danish People's Party's immigration policy. And what's the alternative? Should support be withdrawn from the government, from the Minister? Well, if you don't do it, we're just gonna go on like this, and this development is gonna just keep going. So the support parties have to make up for themselves how long they want to give the government. But thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134115	Thank you. Yeah, these are exciting times we live in. And I hope and believe that if nothing else can change the ship, so that at some point we will follow the conventions we have concluded that we are complying with the agreements to which we have committed ourselves at international level. These are our humble demands, and they are our humble expectation. If we succeed, the question is, and I understand Mr. President. Sikandar Siddique's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134154	Then I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the new citizens and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134159	Thank you so much. I would just like to hear from the Radical Left whether the Radical Left believes that it is a right to have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134209	Thank you very much for the question which I think is really, very interesting. What lies in paragraphs 43 and 44 of the Constitution is that, when you have the power of government, you cannot just say that this Danish group does not have to pay taxes, because we like them and that all those named Sørensen can get a transport allowance. That is, of course, what is very specifically mentioned in the Constitution, so it is incredibly important that there is a legal basis, and the same applies in the area of citizenship. There is exactly the same wording, which is exactly the same requirement for there to be a legal basis. Then it is said that there is a legal home because we have the birth certificate, and that is really nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134314	Mette Thiesen for another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134316	It was a very long answer or it was actually not really an answer. I would just like the rapporteur to be very brief. Does the Radical Left really believe that it is a right to obtain Danish citizenship for foreigners in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134329	Mrs. Susan Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134330	Well, that is a right understood in the sense that we have actually acceded to the Convention on Civil Liberties, which means that when we have that convention, there are certain areas where children are to be born and raised in a country. As to whether that is a right, I would say that it is a right in the constitution that there should be a legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134407	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Susan Kronborg. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134431	The debate is open. We must first welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134501	Thank you to the President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting this motion for a resolution on the simplification of the rules of the Aliens' Act on expulsion, so that the stay of an alien in Denmark as a starting point is not an intermediary in relation to judgments on the expulsion of Denmark. I therefore agree with the authors of the motion that whoever is the victim of a crime is equally affected, regardless of how long the perpetrator has been in this country. As the proposers correctly mention, the rules of the Aliens Act on expulsion are based on a so-called stairwell model, in which the conditions for expulsion are tightened as the duration of the alien's stay in Denmark. The stairwell model implies that foreigners with more than 9 years of legal residence enjoy the most far-reaching protection against expulsion, foreigners with more than 5 years of residence enjoy the second best protection against expulsion, and foreigners with less than 5 years of residence enjoy the lowest level of protection against expulsion. In history, however, the stepping stone model is supplemented by rules which extend the right of expulsion in particular by the most serious crimes. This applies, among other things, to: crimes against the security of the state, crimes against persons, serious crimes of enrichment and drug crime, and violations of arms law. The purpose of the supplementary rules is to ensure that certain crimes can result in expulsion regardless of the duration of the alien's stay in the country and regardless of the length of the sentence. In other words, the stepstep approach is to be deported, which means that in these cases there must be expulsion, unless the expulsion will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. When we talk about the fact that expulsion must not be contrary to international obligations, Article 8, in particular, on the right to respect for private and family life in the European Convention on Human Rights, is relevant. It follows that the infringement of that right must be proportionate to the purpose for which it is intended. In other words, a balance of proportionality must be made when assessing whether a convicted foreigner can be expelled. The proportionality balance includes a number of different factors, including e.g.: the nature and gravity of crime, but in particular: also the duration of the stay of the alien in the country of residence. As I have already mentioned earlier today, I have asked the lawyers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to look into the possibilities that might exist for us to tighten up the expulsion rules within the framework of those conventions. It is a work that takes some time and we need to think about the options that may be properly. I look forward to the further work being completed, and I also look forward to presenting it to the Danish Parliament. Against this background, the government cannot support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134806	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134810	Thank you very much. I do not see the logic of the fact that a criminal alien has been in Denmark for a long time. If the Minister agrees that the victim is being hit equally hard, regardless of whether the criminal aliens have just come to Denmark or have been in Denmark for several years, why not just remove these two paragraphs that make it an attenuating circumstance and simply get it out of Danish legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134836	The short answer is that we are looking at these expulsion rules, and that is one of them. We would just like to be sure that when a proposal is put forward, it is not only the legal that is the most thought-out but also the political one, so that we get as far as possible with it. We are not there yet where we can conclude anything from the study, and therefore I also tried to say in the end in my speech now I shall try to read it again that: Against this background, the government currently cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134911	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134912	I am glad of that, because it is certainly a step in the right direction, but if you simply removed these three paragraphs and then left it to the international conventions, which were the bottlenecks, then we would probably all be able to expel more criminal foreigners. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134932	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510134933	At any rate, I cannot deny that, because I think it is true that there are some who are today being protected by the ladder of stairs and not by the conventions, in other words some who would actually be able to be expelled within the framework of the international conventions. But before I put two lines in that conclusion, I would like to be absolutely sure, and that is in fact one of them. Therefore, a work is being carried out in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135006	Thank you, Minister. A brief comment was made at the end. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135011	Thank you. As a result, I would like to hear something about the case, which has been referred to a number of times now, with these 794 offences committed by two foreigners. The two foreigners will not be expelled. The judgment we have read says that the two foreigners are well integrated in Denmark, and that is one of the reasons why they are not expelled. They are also EU citizens, and there is something EU law that stands in the way. But it seems to me that there is something crazy about having a judicial system, some courts that see it as such that as long as you have lived in Denmark, you are well integrated. That speaks a little bit into what the authors of the motion for a resolution are pointing out. And I miss all sorts of sound logic, in that the mere fact that you have been in one of the world's best countries for me to see the world's best country for a long time has had access to tax paid health and education, all the privileges you have in Denmark, means that you get a penalty discount if you commit a crime. It seems crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135113	In fact, that is also what is being discussed with this motion for a resolution, i.e. whether it should be regarded as an extenuating fact that one has had such and so far a stay in Denmark. That is actually what I am trying to agree with in my speech, in other words that there is a relevant political debate here. I am also trying to say in my speech that there are limits to how far we can go, at least if we want to comply with the rule of the European Convention on Human Rights to have a balance of proportionality. In fact, I believe that we can come a little bit, but in fact I also think that Mrs Pernille Vermund's question is a little out of the question as to why this is a little complicated as well. For example: EU citizens are better protected than third-country nationals. I have not read the specific judgment, but I know only from the media, and as far as I can understand from the media, it is precisely about the fact that they are EU citizens and that they are better protected than you would be if you came from Asia, Africa or Latin America.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135213	Is there another brief comment? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135216	Well my point is just: I think that most Danes, and also a majority in the Folketing here, have it the case that one is obviously not well integrated into our society if one is convicted in a case of 794 offenses, including rape, street robbery, and what else is. And then we have a legal system which, because you have been in Denmark for a long time, talks about well-integrated citizens. In other words, we simply have to make it clear in some way that being well integrated is not just about how long you have been here. There's more to it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135255	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135256	Finally, I can say that I agree with that. Duration seems to me to be a relevant moment to put into that balance, but that cannot be the only thing. It must also be about other things, and there it must also be important whether, for example, we are going to have to deal with them. have been convicted in the past of infringements of the law. Surely this must also have an impact on whether or not we consider people to be integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135318	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and first it is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135335	Thank you, President. The Conservative People's Party proposes to simplify sections 22-24 of the Aliens Act, so the length of a foreigner's stay in Denmark as a starting point is not an attenuating circumstance in relation to convictions of expulsion. In the Social Democratic Party we believe as a starting point that foreigners who commit crime in Denmark do not belong in Denmark. They must be deported, and preferably in a hurry. Male immigrants and descendants originating in the Middle East are, according to Statistics Denmark, greatly over-represented in crime statistics; they commit far more crime than other men in the population. As the legislation has been put in place today, criminal foreigners who receive a sentence must be deported by Denmark in accordance with the rules on expulsion as a starting point, unless it will certainly conflict with our international obligations. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has an investigation under way in which he looks at the expulsion rules, looking at whether they can be tightened up so that more criminal foreigners are expelled as far as possible. In addition, that study will reveal whether there are grounds for changing the periods of residence in Articles 22 and 23 of the Aliens Act. The Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal, as we would like to await the outcome of the study being carried out by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135455	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is also a brief comment to make here. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135457	Thank you. Well, if the Social Democratic Party believes that criminal foreigners should not be in Denmark as a starting point, why can't the Social Democracy support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135510	On the one hand, the legislation is already such that you commit serious crime, you have to be deported unless it is contrary to our international obligations, and that is why we are already very far ahead of you, and on the other hand the Minister is on the way with a study of whether there is any possibility of further tightening it up, and finally, there are examples from the Supreme Court that foreigners with even very great ties with Denmark have actually been expelled from Denmark. And this follows on from the fact that, every year, there are also relatively many foreigners, sometimes you can get the impression in the public debate that it hardly ever happens, and sometimes I can take my own head over some of the cases you hear about in the media where you cannot avoid being indignant and outraged, but after all there are somewhere between 1,500 and 2,000 foreigners a year who are expelled from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135605	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135606	But there are those who think that this is a good example of the fact that it is entirely the conventions that are the bottlenecks. I think this is a good example of Danish legislation being the bottlenecks. I am well aware that there is also a point of departure in the conventions, but if they were even removed here, Danish legislation would no longer be the brake block. And now, in fact, with the motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party on social fraud, we saw that there was just one example of a woman who had cheated and threatened her daughter with a knife and so on and who was not expelled because she had been here for more than five years. So why not just remove these two rules so that it is not Danish legislation that is the bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135639	Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135640	On the one hand, we are now in the process of clarifying whether there is any basis for further tightening up these rules, that is what the Minister is examining for us and, on the other hand, I think it is worth noting that there is indeed the expulsion of people with very great ties. I have taken a concrete example. There is a ruling by the Supreme Court, which is not so old, where a 30-year-old stateless Palestinians were given 8 months of unconditional imprisonment and expulsion with entry ban for 6 years for witness threats and blackmail, and so he went in when he was only 4 years old. After all, I think that is evidence of being able to be deported, even if you have a strong connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135714	Thank you for that, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. Then we're on to the left. It's sir. Morten Dahlin. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510135735	Thank you for that, President. This motion for a resolution proposes that the length of a foreigner's stay in Denmark should no longer be an attenuating circumstance in relation to the judgments that fall on expulsion. I mean, we have to abolish what is popularly known as the stair ladder model. I think that is actually a very good proposal. For we in the Left believe that it is quite basic that strict demands are made on foreigners who wish to reside in Denmark, and we think it is more than reasonable that those who commit crime should also be expelled from Denmark and returned to their country of origin. And especially when it comes to violence, drugs, rape, gang crime, that is, crime in this direction, the sentence must fall hard, and it must fall consistently. Fortunately, the rules have also been tightened up with the Left leading the way, which means that more criminal foreigners can be expelled from Denmark. This is positive, and it is good, and we also see the consequences coming quietly into our legal system, namely that a great many foreigners are being expelled from Denmark for serious crime. But not enough is still being deported, and we are still experiencing cases where, to put it bluntly, we are laughing at our own money and where respect for the victim and the general sense of justice plus security in Denmark must give way. And there we would have liked to see more criminal foreigners expelled. That's why we think the government should make this a top priority. After all, we have seen in other foreign policy areas that the government has set aside annual work and funds and prestige projects to travel the world to secure other foreign policy prestige projects. So there we also think that the expulsion of criminal foreigners should be of the highest priority to the government, and it would certainly be if the Left were to sit in government offices. Because ensuring that foreigners who commit serious crime are expelled from Denmark is essential. So we look forward, of course, to the investigation initiated by the Minister, that is to say, that they are beginning to report. But in the meantime, we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140005	There are no brief comments, so I should like to thank Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin, rapporteur of the Left. And the next in line is DF's rapporteur, Mrs Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140030	Thank you for the floor. We in the Danish People's Party welcome this proposal. It is a question of more deporting people when they have committed crime. That's a really good idea. As I mentioned in one of my previous rapporteur's speeches today on another proposal, the second half of the debate on foreigners is about legal policy; it is about repatriating and expelling criminal foreigners. We can only support that. What we then find interesting in this resolution by the Conservative People's Party is that one is so afraid of going against the international conventions, however. And there we just have to say that if there are other parties that will carry on the foreign policy torch from the Danish People's Party, and there are a lot of parties that are currently falling over their own feet to do so, because fortunately it has become a popular matter to conduct a strict immigration policy. So you have to man up and dare to break up with international conventions, because otherwise you won't get far enough. So I would like to say that this has been very well tried by the Conservative People's Party. The fact that you want to start pursuing a tighter immigration policy is a good thing, and we are pleased about that, but that is just not enough. We have to challenge international conventions and find some way to get out of them, because as long as it is the international conventions that determine our legal policy, we will not get to grips with criminal foreigners who should be expelled in any case not sufficiently. However, the motion for a resolution on a dispute with the so-called stairwell model can be welcomed and supported. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140224	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments. While we are just getting drunk, we must welcome SF's rapporteur, Mr President. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140241	Thank you. Now I have repeated many times today that SF and, as I see it, I personally believe that with so many people on the run, as there are all over the world, Denmark's solidarity should not be put primarily to people who commit serious crime. That is why we have been instigators in the past to tighten up the law, and that is why we will also be positive about proposals that have the right balance in showing more criminal foreigners, without this chamber in symbol politics. In fact, I think Mr. Marcus Knuth and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen with this proposal, because if I am to be quite honest, I myself have raised my eyebrows over the stairwell model before, when I heard about it, because I really have quite a lot of confidence in our legal system, so if they think that a sentence in a given case calls for expulsion, despite the fact that the penalty is modest in relation to the number of years you have to inhale, then it has to be up to their assessment. That is why I can see the sense of changing the model so that the courts get a wider framework for showing where it makes sense. In the SF we basically believe that we must do what we can to allow the courts to expel criminal foreigners who commit crime repeatedly or commit very hard crimes. It is essential for us to be able to solve the problems of integration in Denmark that we do not spend our resources on those who have turned their backs on the community. I understand, however, that the government is already examining the possibility of expelling more criminals, and I think that has also been said quite a few times today from the platform. And whatever the outcome of these investigations, I think it would be sensible to have a debate among the parties of the Folketing once the results of that study are available, and there we can also discuss this specific proposal and possibly others that can better guarantee the possibility of expelling foreigners who commit serious crime. The study will, as I understand it, contribute to, among other things. This proposal can be made within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands right now, but, as I said, we are open to discussing, when the study is available, a model that is similar to, or at least close to, what the Conservative People's Party is proposing here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140448	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140451	But, frankly, this is a good example of people from outside shaking their heads when they look at Christiansborg, because the rapporteur says that this proposal makes good sense, and we even write that it should be possible to implement it within international conventions. If it is the case that the rapporteur agreed with us here, I believe that we would actually now have not heard LA have a majority in favour of this, and then we could already get a job started to remove this stairwell model, which the rapporteur himself thinks should be removed. I do not understand the logic why the rapporteur does not just support us instead of saying that it is a good idea, but one cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140528	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140528-2	It's because I think it's important that we make a qualified decision in this parliament. And I have not said that I support the proposal either, but overall I think that the proposal that is before us strikes an excellent balance, and that is why we are open to looking at how it can be implemented. However, it is also important to me that we take proper decisions which are within the framework of our international commitments, and I think that the government is actually setting out a fairly serious course of action on this when it examines the possibilities and, hopefully, then calls for some negotiations on how we could tighten the legislation within the international conventions. So I really do not think there is anything very awkward about going up and saying that you think there are some positive tactics in a legislative proposal, but at the same time you cannot support it just as it is, because you want to support a serious process in which the possibilities of amending the legislation are examined.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140616	Thank you. This is a resolution we are discussing here. Carl Valentin Yes, I'm sorry. Thank you. ) Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140619	Precisely because it is a motion for a resolution and not a legislative proposal, the whole implementation of it would have to take place in the future together with all the parties of the Folketing here with a first, a second and a third reading, and there would of course be an opportunity for the SF and all of us to influence exactly how it is implemented. This is more of a direction than a bill, so why not? That would then be in line with what the rapporteur actually wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140650	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140651	No, I think it is a very fine process that the government has set up, and although it is not a legislative proposal, but a resolution, it also sets a very clear direction, and it may well be that it is a different model to what the Conservative People's Party is proposing here, and that is why I think it is good to continue the process that the government has set up by looking at how to change the legislation within that framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140712	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the speech is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510140755	Thank you. In Denmark we have a set of rules that everyone must observe. This means that we must not commit crime, we must not steal, we must not commit violence and what else is contained in both the criminal code and other legislation which regulates what is worthy of punishment. Of course, serious crime can lead to a harsh sentence. That's what I'm talking about. Part of that sentence may be that you get a deportee's sentence, and that must be the case if the criteria that apply to it are met, because there can be no two opinions that people who commit severe, serious crime should be severely punished, because their behaviour we, as a society, take a strong stand against. When it comes to the issue of expulsion, we have, as has been the subject of the debate here, and what is the subject of the resolution, a so-called stairwell model, which means that there is a difference between when expulsion can take place if you have been resident for more than five and nine years respectively. Such a stepping stone model seems to the Radical Left to be a good tool, because it is also about both proportionality, it is about the attachment that you have, and in this way it gives a sensible approach to the overall picture when also these things are taken into account. But it is clear that we have all come across stairs in our lives, and stairs can be more or less steep, they can walk in different facets, and therefore, of course, you can always discuss how this ladder should be. And here it is put up to it not to be there. From the point of view of the Radical Left, it makes sense to have such a stairwell so as to look at the proportionality of one's stay and therefore the Radical Left cannot support this resolution. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that we strongly reject the actions of those who commit serious crime. Finally, I should also like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they do not support this motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141025	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141028	I just wanted to say that this is so typical Radical Left. You think it is sensible to have a stepping stone model, but at the same time you say that you are strongly opposed to criminals. Does the rapporteur really think that it is all right for a person who has been sentenced to up to 3 years in prison to stay in Denmark alone because this criminal alien has lived in Denmark for more than 9 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141053	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141054	That seems to me to be based on the specific case. I am not going to sit and take a stand on such examples there. But I can at least say that if you commit very serious crime like the one mentioned by the questioner, it is clear that there is a greater chance of being expelled, and that is how it should be. And that is because, as a society, we are strongly opposed to serious crime. It is important to do so and it increases the risk of expulsion, and it makes sense to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141124	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141124-2	However, the rapporteur does not see the hypocrisy of the rapporteur using words such as 'we are strongly opposed to serious crime', but when it comes to actually doing something about it, it is all of a sudden said that this legislation, which makes it an attenuating circumstance to have lived in Denmark for a long time, is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141145	No, I think it is very real to say that I do not think there are two opinions about this Parliament among the few who are present, but also if there were more present that we, as politicians, are strongly opposed to serious crime. At the same time, however, it is also important to bear in mind that expulsion is a severe sanction, and so must it be. Therefore, it does not matter that there is proportionality in it. But you can discuss whether the stair ladder that is now is the right one. However, it makes sense that the conditions of your stay up to now are also reflected in the sanction you are given.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141222	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments. Since we have been greeted by the Enhedslisten, we must welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141246	Thank you. Criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. We believe so in the new citizens. With this resolution, the Conservatives will abolish the temporal rebate for foreigners with 5 and 9 years of residence respectively in Denmark. In the law on aliens there is the so-called step-up model, which means that the length of aliens' stay in Denmark is important for expulsions if they are convicted of crime. Today, in other words, criminal foreigners are allowed to stay in Denmark because they have already been allowed to be here for a long time. We are a peaceful country with free access to, among others. tax-financed education and health. It lacks all logic. That foreigners have been allowed to live here for a number of years, they should be happy. I don't want it to trigger a penalty discount if they commit crime. If you are a foreign national and want to live in Denmark, you must comply with our legislation and support yourself. If you don't, you have to go. That is the position of the new citizens, and on that basis we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141406	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the proposers. It's sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141433	Thank you, President. When you are a victim of crime, it makes no difference whether the criminal alien has been in Denmark for 1 week or 5 years or 9 years. And, in fact, our courts today actually have a very good opportunity to expel criminal foreigners already by conditional or unconditional judgment. However, as soon as a foreigner has been in Denmark for 5 years, the criminal foreigner must be sentenced to as much as 1 year in prison before he or she can be expelled. And if a criminal foreigner has been in Denmark for over 9 years, the sentence must be as high as 3 years in prison. That doesn't make any sense at all. We Conservatives believe that our courts should have the widest possible power to expel criminal foreigners. Therefore, in paragraphs 22 to 24 of the Aliens Act, we want to be simplified so that criminal foreigners can be expelled as far as possible, regardless of how long they have been in this country. I am very pleased with the support of all the blue parties... the Left, the New Civil and the Danish People's Party... but of course I am sorry that the government cannot see the same common sense in this as we can. We're glad there's some work going on that's looking at this. We think you should do a little more than look at the fact that you should just get started. And you could do that if you supported this bill. But at least that is something that we blue parties see equally, and it gives me a certain amount of calm in my stomach, because before then we will have the opportunity to rectify this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141605	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go to Mrs. Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141610	Thank you. I would like to know why it is that the Conservative People's Party is so devoted to international conventions, since they now know that they do so, so much is being done when it comes to the expulsion of criminal foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141624	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141626	Well, we think this is a good example of Danish legislation being the bottlenecks. Now we could also see the earlier resolution from New Citizens on expulsions in social fraud; there I would also say that Danish legislation is the bottlenecks far along the way. So let us remove the bottlenecks in Danish legislation. At least that is our first ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141650	Thank you. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141651	But it is, of course, to put the voters in the eye when you do not want to admit that if you make it easier to condemn people to expulsion, then at the same time you do not make it easier to have them expelled because, in the end, international conventions can be appealed to, so that nothing can be moved at all. That is why we should seek a freer relationship with international conventions, instead of claiming to the electorate: now we are doing something for a strict foreign policy, and now, like the Social Democratic Party, we want to take over the strict immigration policy of the Danish People's Party. You are very, very welcome to do so, but you just have to do it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141731	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141733	We don't want to take over anyone's policy. We are trying to put forward our own policy. And as I remember, I actually think the minister has been asked whether it is possible to raise any of these two time limits and still be within the dial, if you can put it that way. I think the Minister has answered yes to that, so I look forward very much to the work being done in the ministry. We believe that action should be taken more quickly than that, but at least that is a step on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141800	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141819	The debate is open. First, we must again welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510141849	Thank you to the Conservative People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. How do we stop the spread of extreme Islamism in Denmark, and how do we prevent certain mosques in Denmark from being abused to spread hatred? These are issues which are of great concern to the government and, I know, to the whole parliament. Extreme Islamism obviously has no place in Denmark. I simply do not see what to do in this country if you think that women's oppression, Sharia and religious anti-democratic fundamentalism are the way forward. Then I think you're not just in the wrong country, but also that you've landed in the wrong century. We also have a challenge with certain mosques in Denmark. Some of them are too closed, and for too long it has turned a blind eye that the mosques can be used to spread hatred and continue homeland conflicts here on Danish soil. Society's anxiety about those questions has left too many to take the fight alone. 30 years ago it was the citizens and mayors of the West who were beaten up by politicians here from the Assembly Hall, and now it is also Danish democratic Muslims who have long since embraced democratic values, but who are too often left to fight for them on their own, and it must of course be different. I am therefore very pleased that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has adopted the law prohibiting the receipt of anti-democratic donations, just as I am pleased that we in Denmark have the opportunity to grant hate preachers an entry ban. I both hope and believe that this Parliament will provide the government with more tools in the new value struggle because we are not finished yet; more action needs to be taken. I would like to stress that if the people who are part of the environment around a particular mosque move on the wrong side of the law, then the response of society must be consistent. And if, within the framework of the constitution, there is any possibility of dissolution, I think it is a perfectly natural possibility that we, as a society, must make use of as quickly as possible. The question of the dissolution of associations is governed by Article 78 of the Constitution. First of all, it means that citizens can form associations for any legitimate purpose without first having to ask for permission. So in the Danish constitution there is a fundamental ban on the association censorship, and that is a good provision that we have there in the constitution. Conversely, the provision provides for the possibility of the dissolution of an association which has already been formed. The dissolution can be done by judgment and presupposes an association within the meaning of the Constitution. If it is not an association, there is, if you may say so, nothing to dissolve. Resolution therefore requires the association to have an illegal purpose, for example. by seeking to achieve its objective by violence and proof of it in connection with any dissolution proceedings. Whether or not an association has an illegal purpose depends on an overall assessment of all available material. The dissolution of an association by judgment on the ground that the association has an illegal purpose will generally be possible only if the association or its members, as a general part of the association's activities, violate or intend to violate the law. For example: to be able to monitor closely whether a case for the dissolution of a specific association arises, the Ministry of Justice in February 2019 asked the Attorney General to establish a reporting system for breaches of Article 236 of the Criminal Code. 3 on the explicit approval of a number of acts of religious education. The scheme ensures that the Attorney General has the necessary information on a regular basis to assess whether there are grounds for examining whether there are criminal offences justifying the dissolution of a possible association by judgment. There should be no doubt that I believe that if it can be proved that associations behind certain mosques are intended to promote criminal statements or acts, they should also be dissolved. The Attorney General has stated that since the introduction of Section 136 of the Criminal Code. 3 is registered as a single judgment for infringement of the provision. In addition, the National Police have also reported that a further charge has been made. In their motion for a resolution, the authors state that there are similarities between the motion for a resolution and the case against Loyal To Familia. It is rare that the courts have dissolved associations on the basis of the Constitution, but in September 2020 Østre Landsret, however, confirmed the Copenhagen City Court judgment on the dissolution of Loyal To Familia. The Land Court considered it proven that Loyal To Familia is an association which acts by violence and thus has no legitimate purpose. The Land Court therefore considered it necessary to dissolve the Loyal To Familia in order to counter the widespread violent crime which is very much related to the association. Loyal To Familia, however, has appealed to the Supreme Court, where it is scheduled for consideration in August 2021. As you know, this is a matter of principle, and I believe that many of us are eagerly waiting and seeing what the final outcome will be. So there are several elements that need to be weighed against each other when it comes to assessing whether it makes sense to launch a major study. In this context, it is of course important whether the forthcoming Supreme Court ruling on Loyal To Familia can make us more aware of the framework and limitations of the Constitution, and another is the very low number of reports to the Attorney General. Today, when the government makes the overall balance, we do not believe that at this stage there is any basis for asking the Attorney General to look at the possibility of a resolution case against any associations behind specific mosques. The government cannot therefore support the resolution at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142441	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142445	Thank you. I want to say that I am really, really sorry that the government cannot support us in this. Well, we do have some mosques that are helping radicalise people who are helping to support the Islamic State and who may even have contributed to some of the Syrians that we do not want to come back right now, going to Syria at all. That is where we agree with the Social Democratic Party. But when it comes to just checking to see if you can close some of these mosques, just check to see if you can shut down the Social Democratic Party already says no to it. Isn't that a little bit to talk to two tongues?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142519	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142520	No, I don't think so. I am also trying to argue that an arrangement has actually been made whereby the courts report to the Attorney General when there have been violations of it here, and now I am looking for it, § 136 specifically approving a number of acts of religious training, and since it has been introduced, one judgment has been registered for violation of that provision. The National Police have also announced that there is also one further charge on the way. I think that also has to be part of the discussion, just as I think it has to be part of the discussion that we in the Supreme Court have a case in August. It is therefore in three months' time that is about Loyal To Familia. It is the old court judgment that has been appealed and is now to be decided in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142616	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142616-2	It is precisely on the basis of Loyal To Familia that a verdict has already been handed down at the Court of Justice which will enable the association to be closed down. And yes, of course we wait eagerly for what the Supreme Court says, but everything else just indicates that judgment by the High Court, after all, that, as many said, we could not, because there was a Conservative Minister of Justice. So why not start starting from that and just start to see if we can do something similar in relation to the extremist mosques?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142646	But I also think that it should be part of the discussion that the ruling that has been handed down at the Court of Justice has been appealed and must now be decided by the Supreme Court and that, of course, it is also a judgment of principle that falls there and that perhaps makes us wiser on some of the provisions of the Constitution, just as it should interest us a tiny bit that almost no representations have been made to the Attorney General on the basis of this section 136 which deals with religious training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142719	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142720	One of those who has spoken most interestingly about what we are actually discussing in connection with this resolution, that is, on the one hand, the Western worldly values and, on the other hand, such advanced Islamic separatism, is the French President Macron. And his government has at least gone some way down the road to the path proposed in this motion for a resolution, in other words to look at whether there are no environments around some mosques where there are taught and preached and also in some cases carried out actions which, in his essence, are intended to damage, in his case, the French society and the values on which it is based, and in the Danish case, it is the Danish society and the values on which the Danish society is based. And I really think that the Minister made a fine speech in which the Minister said some things that were quite reasonable. But what I just can't quite understand is what's the worst thing that can happen by investigating this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142826	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142827	It is also a question of spending resources on what is right. As I also tried to say in my speech: for an association to be dissolved by judgment, it must exist; there must be a union. And it is just not always the case that the people we want to fight because they are an expression of extreme fundamentalism have sat down, just as I am sure that both the rapporteur and I would do. Because we grew up in an association culture, and then we set up an association and make some statutes and choose a box and register with the municipality and borrow some rooms and stuff. It doesn't always work like that. And that is why we are not convinced that the right thing to do at this stage is to carry out such an investigation, especially when we can see that there are so few reports to the system created by the Attorney General, and especially when we are still awaiting the judgment of the Supreme Court, which has therefore already been set here in August.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142922	Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510142923	No, but the part that deals with whether or not one has made an association is one of the things one could examine in such a study, that is, how one should approach it, if one has not sat down and in the best Hal Koch spirit made some kind of democratic set of values and made some rules of association, etc. You could check that out. Then the Minister says that it is a question of using the resources correctly. I just have to ask: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that there are many other areas in which resources could be used that are more important than combating the anti-democratic and Danish values that we can see are being preached in some parallel societies around some mosques in Denmark? What's more important than that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143000	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143001	It is not really so much a question that there are some other areas that may be important. That is more what is the right way to go about what is the political objective, which I think we agree to pursue, namely that if someone breaks that rule of law, then of course cases must be brought in order to dissolve those associations by judgment. Yeah, let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143023	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143024	Thank you. The proposal here is to close mosques or associations where we can prove that this is a real problem. One could also go the other way and ask: does it even make sense that we grant special privileges to Islamic religions, which we know are in conflict with them, what are we to say, values, the freedom, the fundamental culture on which our society is based? We have a number of mosques, and one of them is also mentioned in the comments here, the Taibamosque on Nørrebro, which has, of course, brought to Denmark what you would probably call the preachers of hatred. Why do they do that, and how can they do so? Well, they can, because recognition of religions in Denmark among others. means that you have easier access to it, that is to say you have easier conditions for inviting preachers to Denmark. After all, they also have some financial advantages... they can deduct their quotas from taxes, and then they have the right to marry. Could the Minister consider looking into that area instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143133	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143134	Well we are happy with the rules we have about the registration of religions, because it also makes it possible to look some of the religions over the shoulder if they register. What is then the carrot for registering is that they gain a little more rights as a religion. But the discussion we are having here is also really about the freedom of religion in Denmark, which means that everyone can stand in the carport of a beer box and give a sermon. This should not be recorded at the local authority level, and I think that is a really important principle to hold on to. And it has also helped create a living religious life in Denmark. What is just the challenge here is that we can adopt all the legislation we want, which is about associations, but all those people who do not register and who hold cellar sermons or backyard sermons, we do not get anywhere near the initiatives we would normally be working on in the Parliamentary Chamber. That is also why I appeal to us not to focus less on this area or focus less on it, but to try to find a way where it actually also has a practical meaning in the real world, and that is something in relation to this with anti-democratic donations, hate preachers and, I hope, also more measures that would actually work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143243	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143244	Well, it sounds rather hollow to say that you give them recognition and now I must hurry to say that it is by no means all religions that are recognised and thus the possibility that you can look over their shoulders, and then at the same time maintain that they can continue to have it, despite knowing that they have invited these hate preachers here, that they have a worse turn of Islamists among themselves and also Islamists such as, among other things, Islamists. Omar el-Hussein, who was the man who committed terror in Denmark. Well, if you're not going to do anything with it anyway, when you look over their shoulders, is it reasonable that the Danes should spend money on this and that you should give them special privileges?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143321	Thank you. Then we'll get the minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143322	So, we think it is a good idea to register and be recognised as a religion. Of course, that recognition can also be lost, and I must admit that I am not quite in the details, but I am quite sure that the church minister would be very happy to have a discussion about that. But I think it is a good principle that we have the constitution that describes something about the church and that other religions can be recognised if they meet certain conditions, and then they get some privileges, but they can also lose that recognition if they break some rules that I do not know the details of. I think that is a good way of organizing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143356	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We shall then proceed to the rapporteur's round, and that is first, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143410	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party proposes that an investigation be carried out on the legal basis in order to close mosques and other religious associations that encourage violence, behave extremistly or disrupt public order. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that we must exercise strict control over mosques in Denmark, which preach hatred, among other things. which we saw after the revelations in the TV 2 documentary... the mosques behind the veil. Here it emerged that double-toned imams in mosques in Denmark advise Danish Muslims that women should not take work where there are men, that Danish Muslims should beat their children if they do not pray to Allah, and there were other examples. That is why we, the Social Democrats, have supported and helped to take a number of initiatives. We have taken action against hate preachers and anti-democratic donations, and we will ensure greater transparency with the sermons held in the mosques. Within the framework of the Constitution, it is only possible to dissolve an association by judgment if the association has an illegal purpose or if the association acts by violence or tries to achieve its goal by violence. The Social Democrats therefore do not support the proposal because in practice it will not be possible to close any mosques, since their purpose is not to act by violence or fall under any of the other provisions. A study will therefore be a value-policy blow in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143531	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143533	I think that is a strange way of formulating things. When we started work to ban Loyal To Familia, there were also people who said that it could not be done, but it could be done. Hopefully this will also be confirmed by the Supreme Court here in August. But since it was possible to do what people said was not possible when it came to Loyal To Familia, why just reject this in advance? Why not use resources to start an investigation so that we can see if that is possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143605	I am only rapporteur yet! I think that with Loyal To Familia, this is different from this proposal, because Loyal To Familia was a criminal gang that worked in the drug trade, which had countless violent convictions and everything else. It was almost like there were organizational diagrams that showed how this gang terrorized Copenhagen and surroundings. Fortunately, that is what has been confirmed in the Court of Justice, but we are waiting for the final decision. For as Mr. Marcus Knuth is aware that it is extremely complex and difficult within the framework of the Constitution to find out whether it is possible and legal and whether it is sufficiently documented. That's why it's got this principle that's going to the Supreme Court. It will of course be exciting to see how it falls out in August. But comparing Loyal To Familia to a mosque, I don't think it's entirely accurate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143701	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143701-2	I very much think it is right, not least because we have seen some of the mosques being the hot spot for people who have gone to Syria and committed terror. So I think it is a very fair thing to compare them. Perhaps everything else is equal, because the mosques are also a hotbed of incitement to murder, etc., then there are illegal acts. So why don't you spend your resources trying to find out if you can close these mosques?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143733-2	It has to be proven that this is the very purpose of the mosque. I think sir... Marcus Knuth is right in saying that many of those who have been promoted as examples of radicalised types who have shed hatred incited violence and backed up the Islamic State and the kind that individuals can be judged by the penal code for the crimes they may have been involved in. There I think it is true that it is comparable to Loyal To Familia.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143807	We thank the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143810	Thank you. But that is exactly what the problem is, that is to say, that we often get into the discussion, whether it is the responsibility of the association or the responsibility of individuals. I just think that the dilemma and the problem are apologies, I make the same thing as I have done to the Minister that what the Danish state is doing is giving some special privileges to a number of these associations and mosques when you recognise them as a religion. And one of the privileges is that they are given the opportunity to invite preachers on particularly lenient terms. In other words, if we now know that these mosques are very much involved in radicalising indigenous Muslims and that they are as bad as a young Muslim said to me at some point that his mother has never allowed him to enter a Danish mosque because they are simply too radicalized, can the rapporteur and the Social Democrats not see that there is something wrong in our recognition of the Islamic religions when we now give them some privileges which, of course, allow them to directly import hate preachers into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143916	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510143917	I really think that Mrs Pernille Vermund has some relevant considerations here, but I just do not have the means at hand to assess exactly where this cut should be in relation to the religion, i.e. when one is recognized and when one is not. As I know, and that is where I am a little on uncertain ground now there are also some advantages to a religious community being recognised, because then there is greater transparency about what they are doing in relation to their economy and things like that. But I'm not good enough inside; I think it's the church minister we should try to get to help us drill it out. But I also believe that some of what we are dealing with here is that the fathers of the Constitution had not really taken into account the fact that we wanted to fight today with a religion of law called Islam, which unfortunately abuses the tolerance and freedom which the Constitution gave us for freedom of religion and assembly, freedom of association. It was difficult to predict there in the mid 1800s that it would be a problem today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144021	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144022	I am very glad that the rapporteur says that, because that is precisely what the problem is: the core of this is Islam; it is Islam that the arrow points to. Now we have had this discussion many times and the dilemma in foreign policy is that foreign policy, legal policy or foreign policy and church policy are often linked, and then one minister and rapporteur is familiar with one but not with the other. Could the Social Democrats not ask the three ministers to sit down and then really get into depth with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144056	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144057	I am not going to be able to decide that, but perhaps we could start by asking some committee questions in order to clarify what Mrs Pernille Vermund referred to in the first question, because it might be that it would make the discussion • what should be more enlightened for all of us if we had a little more facts to stand on in this respect; it could at least do so for myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144121	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144137	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution which, of course, the Left supports. There should be no doubt that the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, of course values freedom. This means that we wholeheartedly support freedom of association as well as freedom of belief and freedom of expression. On the other hand, the Left is also prepared to defend our freedoms, whatever the threat comes against them from within or from outside. As far as the substance of this resolution is concerned, it is unfortunately true that there is a threat to our freedoms, just as it is true that this threat comes from within and that, among other things, it does exist. emanate from extreme mosques. The threat is working on the foundations on which our democracy is so well founded. We all probably know about the crazy stories of imams who have preached violence and hatred in the mosques; about the young people who have been radicalized in the very same mosques before they went to Syria or ran out as perpetrators. Basically, it is stories about people who have exploited the freedoms granted by Danish democracy to undermine the very same freedoms. It's deeply, deeply disheartening. That is why, of course, we need to examine whether we can establish a legal basis for closing radical mosques and other extremist associations that call for violence or the like. The Left simply refuses to look from the sidelines, while Islamists and others benefit from freedom of association and religion here in Denmark, while the very same people speak dunder against democracy and call for violence every time they get the opportunity to do so. We must, and must, put an end to this. As the audience in this Chamber today probably and hopefully will agree with the Left, the prerequisite for a viable democracy is, of course, that the majority of citizens are in favour of democratic rights and appreciate the freedoms and duties of democracy. And even if a democracy such as ours is characterised by dealing with conflicts peacefully, properly, with a spirit of law and justice, that does not mean that we are blind to where the line between just and unjustly goes. And if an anti-democratic minority deliberately tries to overthrow democracy by calling for violence, then I would say that the democratic majority has the right to respond and close the associations and organisations from which the calls for death and destruction come. So, once again, I would like to thank the Conservatives for the motion for a resolution which, of course, the Left supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144438	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144501	The Danish People's Party supports examining the legal basis for closing mosques and other religious associations that encourage violence, behave extremistly or disrupt public order. Of course. We have wanted this for a long time, and we ourselves have tabled several resolutions in this area. It is primarily Islam that is a problem in foreign policy and integration policy, and therefore it is necessary to be very, very thorough and very, very careful when it comes to various Islamic associations or congregations. So it's only good to get a closer look at them. One of the things that has been used in the past is the law on the recognition of religious religions. And the law and the register you have there have to some extent increased control of the religious congregations in Denmark, and that is good. However, there are a great many who are outside it and who pose problems. There are also some of those who are in what constitute problems, but in general it is better to know something about people than to let them work in the dark. It is clear that we in the Danish People's Party support a proposal which is so similar to the many proposals we have put forward. I do not think I remember that the Conservative People's Party has ever supported any of the many proposals we have put forward in this area, but it may of course be that after the party has been enriched with Mr. Marcus Knuth has changed the policy in this area. I'm not gonna be able to say that. At any rate, we see it as very positive that the Conservative People's Party wants to do something in this area. So we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144710	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510144728	Thank you. We must crack down on extremism and dogmatic, anti-democratic attitudes, including Sharia and women's oppression. And I admit that we have a challenge in relation to certain mosques in Denmark. I remember clearly the indignation it aroused when an imam in the documentary series • The mosques behind the veil • For hidden camera taught women rules about whipping and stoning. It has also aroused indignation that an imam has taught how and when to beat your children. One might then ask how far in these cases is from words to deeds. I would say that the indignation was entirely justified, but we must not just be outraged by the Imams as isolated, extreme cases, but over all the parallel communities that support them. In this context, I would also like to take the liberty of criticising our own society. For have we been good enough to promote the democratic tale among these people, or have we been firm enough about the dissemination of this democratic tale? We have had far too superficial and uncritical relations with these other communities under the multicultural cover of that it is oh so beautiful. We have thus cultivated the story that the stranger is always exotic. If the Danes had settled in good time on these matters, they would not have been allowed to grow. I cannot express my indignation at the disloyalty of these extremists to the country that has given them and like-minded security, financial support and freedom. And as far as freedom is concerned, they have also been given the freedom to cultivate their own faith. The fact that they then return this gesture with racism and resistance to the very same Danes who have worked hard and worked a certain body part out of their pants to support them makes me furious. Following on from that, I would like to say to the authors of the motion that we have already taken a number of necessary steps. The mosques must be opened up to the outside world, whether it is about hate preachers, donations from anti-democratic forces, marriage of minors or anything else. However, I would rather call for us instead of compromising on our freedoms, which include, among other things, freedom. This means freedom of religion, strengthening democratic and cultural education starting from childhood. And here we need to strengthen our day care institutions, primary school and educational institutions. It will be the best protection against extremism, and it will strengthen the country's cohesion. With regard to the possibility of closing mosques, I can say that within the framework of the constitution it is only possible to dissolve an association by judgment if the association has an illegal purpose or if the association works by or seeks to achieve its objective of violence or incitement to violence. And to control these matters, we have the police and our intelligence service. So, on this basis, I would like to say that the SF does not support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145043	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145044	It sounds rather hollow that the rapporteur expresses such indignation at what is going on in some of these mosques, but then will not support the proposal. Well, take the Grimhøjmosque. It has helped to inspire, I do not know how many, to go to Syria and to commit terrorist attacks, or at least to the Islamic State, which has committed terrorist attacks, and then there is all the evil that comes with it. In other words, the rapporteur can explain to me why we do not want to start work to see if a mosque such as this can be closed down. The ugly mosque?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145117	I think the best way to get an insight into these environments is openness. And that is why we have the knowledge that we have; it is precisely because we have this openness. That's one. The second is that I think that the way we should go is to strengthen the police intelligence service. In fact, police intelligence has prevented a number of acts of terrorism, and these are the ones we need strengthened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145149	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145150	Now the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Morten Dahlin, precisely France, where, in the wake of terrorist attacks, we have actually had to close mosques and religious associations. So does the rapporteur really not think that there is an upper limit to how much extremism and malice can come from a mosque, but that de facto they should always be kept open? Is that really SF's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145211	No, I don't think it's fair to give me and SF some opinions that we don't have at all. We believe in the SF that we have a constitutional right in relation to freedom of religion and the rapporteur should also know that. We have to cherish it. At the same time, we must strike down very hard on anti-democratic forces, and I actually think that we, as a society, do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145247	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145331	Thank you for the floor. To call for violence, to behave extremistly or to disturb public order is deeply, deeply unacceptable, and that is why, of course, it is already illegal today, and so it must be. We do not tolerate this in Denmark, it is part of our common ground rules. The motion for a resolution also proposes that the legal basis for inter alia: Closer religious associations are being investigated. There I would like to draw attention to section 78 of the Constitution, which states that it is possible to disband associations which have their primary function by violence. So that part of the proposal may not be so necessary, because there you can just read a certain paragraph and say that you can. In any case, there is little reason to examine the legal basis for this. We have seen this most recently with a ruling of the Court of Justice on Loyal To Familia, which has now been appealed to the Supreme Court, and that is why, of course, we should not talk about it so much politically. But we can at least say in general terms that when the courts find occasion to dissolve an association in accordance with the rules governing it, it must of course take place. Then there is another part of the resolution which deals with the legal basis for closing mosques. In this connection, I would like to say that if there are people calling for violence that behaves extremely or disturbs public order, they must be prosecuted individually, whether in a mosque, on the street or anywhere else. I believe that the most important thing is that we should punish those who commit these illegal acts and not necessarily punish the buildings. Because if we just shut down the buildings and don't punish the people who are doing this and persecute them, then this can just go on somewhere else. So what is important in this respect is that we go after the people rather than the buildings. That is why the Radical Left sees no reason to support this motion for a resolution, but, of course, we can continuously follow what is on the legal basis for taking various decisions. However, since the most important thing is to take action against those who do this, who do not have to take place, it must be more important than punishing buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145633	Sir. Marcus Knuth, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145634	It's just right, so I understand Radical Left here. In other words, could there be an example where a mosque resorts to enough violence or calls for enough violence or terror, and where we came up in a category where the Radical Left actually thought that something should be done to close a mosque?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145653	It is clear that if people commit violent crime and acts of violence, we must come after them. Whether this will lead to the closure of a particular building so that action cannot be taken in that building, I will not stand here and explain it further. I think others have to do that, some lawyers have to do it. However, I do not see a basis for us to create a greater legal basis for this at this stage. I think it is more important that we put our political forces in place to ensure that those who commit illegal acts are prosecuted so that this does not happen. Because the crucial thing is to get rid of those people who do something illegal, because then it doesn't happen, and otherwise you can do what you do in buildings around Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145736	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145736-2	Well, if sir... Kristian Hegaard believes that this is not a political issue, but that it should be up to some lawyers, so it is indeed among other things. What we are proposing here is to set some lawyers in motion to see if a mosque can be closed. So why is it that Mr. Kristian Hegaard cannot support it when he says that this is something that lawyers should investigate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145756	It was, as I said, because I think the important thing is that we come after those people who do something illegal if they call for violence, show extremist behaviour and do something that we do not want to take place in our democracy, so that they take action against it, so that we obviously have to go after them. I think that's far more important than closing buildings. Because if you concentrate on closing buildings and doing some lawyers around it, these terrible acts can just happen somewhere else, and they shouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145829	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510145851	Thank you. I must admit that at this point in the debate, now that I have been listening to my colleagues, I still do not fully understand the purpose of this resolution. I would like to start by making it clear that I consider it quite serious if someone calls on others to commit violence, and that is whether it is religiously motivated, politically motivated or just generally motivated by hatred. It is never okay when it happens, and if it happens through an association or from a powerful position, then it is really only even worse. Unfortunately, we have seen examples that imams in Denmark have called for illegal acts, for violence and death, and that is by no means acceptable. Fortunately, however, we have also seen examples of the police investigating the cases and prosecuting them, because it is precisely a crime to call on others to commit illegal acts. In addition to the general clause on participation, section 23 of the criminal code, we also have special provisions in, among others. the basic law, which the proposers themselves put forward in the comments on this motion for a resolution. Paragraph 67 of the Constitution states: "Citizens have the right to unite in society in order to worship God in the manner consistent with their beliefs, however, that nothing is taught or done that is contrary to morality or public order. We have seen in the proposal, as the proposers themselves note, the Court of Justice ban the Loyal To Familia association precisely because it, among other things, bans it. worked by violence. That is why I do not understand what the Conservatives need to be examined, so what has yet to be investigated? That is already in our legislation. People who violate the law can be punished. It would be illegal for any person, whether in church, mosque or synagogue, to encourage violence. That's why that part's already taken care of. If an organization or association acts by violence or the like, we now know, with the judgment in the LTF case, that there is also the possibility of disbanding these associations, which should call for violence or the like. So that part's done, too. What I have doubts about is what the Conservatives would like to see investigated more. We all have the tools we need if associations commit illegal acts, and I therefore see no need to change the rules or to investigate what the rules are. This work has already been done by the authors of the motion for a resolution. So I'm actually thinking that what Conservatives would like to have criminalized has been investigated... fortunately it's criminal in advance. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150147	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150149	I think that today's debate reflects the need to take a closer look at this. For the Social Democrats say that this cannot be done because of the Constitution, and now the Enhedslisten says that it is possible to do so. Conservatives have already proven that it can. All other things being equal, it emphasizes the need for lawyers to take the view that Mr. Kristian Hegaard said to get a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150215	The point of the Enhedslisten is more that what we read in the motion for a resolution that Conservatives would like to see criminalised is, in fact, criminal in advance. We must not encourage violence and death; it is illegal. We have the LTF judgment and we have the criminal code that has already criminalised it here, and that is why I do not see what the problem this resolution is going to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150238	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150240	I would then like to ask Mrs Rosa Lund if she is happy with the developments that have taken place with the ban on Loyal To Familia, and if the Enhedslisten thinks it is positive that we now hopefully also at the Supreme Court will be banned Loyal To Familia, does the Enhedslisten support a similar process in relation to the extremist mosques?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150259	We are now in the Enhedslisten, not judges, but politicians. And I have to say that unfortunately I do not believe that it will solve the gang conflict or the challenges we see with gang crime in Denmark that the association Loyal To Familia has been dissolved. Unfortunately, I think we will see that they are getting an increased influx, because it is now harder to be involved in something that is also illegal. And that is a development that we are very sorry about, but of course we have full respect for the ruling given by the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150331	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150349	Thank you. A number of laws and regulations have been implemented in recent years aimed at remedying the damage caused by Islam, for example. enhanced supervision of Muslim free schools, burka bans, interventions against Imams in relation to religious training, handshakes in the granting of citizenship, etc. The examples are many, and common to them is that they address a symptom, but not a cause. We have recently adopted legislation preventing foreign funding of mosques. It is constantly debated how to counter the negative social control that prevails in the Islamic environments and is preached by the Imams. And with today's resolution, Conservatives will examine the possibility of closing mosques and other religious associations that call for violence, behave extremistly or disrupt public order. But here too the symptoms and relief are discussed, not the cause itself. For the cause of the problems is difficult for most politicians to formulate, although we see that everything points in the same direction. The arrow points to Islam. And in order to overcome the problems, we need to bring that recognition to political action. In New Citizens we believe that a good place to start is to remove the privileges deriving from the approval procedure of the Religious Act, namely the right of marriage, the right to deduct tax, and the lax conditions for preachers, who thus gain the possibility of entry and residence in Denmark more easily than others. Firstly, imams should not be able to marry husbands with legal validity. Islamic family law is basically anti-women and out of step with modern living. A recent report documents how Muslim religions prevent women from obtaining divorce. With violence and death threats, women are forced to stay in their Islamic marriage even though they have obtained divorce by Danish law. And that should not surprise anyone, because it is not just a problem in the individual mosques that the authors of the motion for a resolution want to ban here. They are the basic conditions of a Muslim marriage • also called nikah, namely that the marriage can only be dissolved if the husband accepts it. This is what politicians here in the Danish Parliament support when they recognise Muslim religions in Denmark. Secondly, we should not be able to deduct financial donations to mosques from taxes. A deduction is technically the same as other taxpayers paying your tax. And it is quite unreasonable to demand that Danish taxpayers be involved in financing a religious and ideological institution that is in direct contradiction with the fundamental values of our society. The mosques work against democracy and secular laws. They incubate Islamic terrorists and, through their actions, mark religious Muslims with values that are in hostile opposition to the Western. Denmark's foremost mosque researcher stated last year that Danish politicians, with the recognition of the Islamic religions, have recognised Sharia courts in Denmark. As the researcher said to Berlingske, it is of course no good that undemocratic and foreign Sharia practices can be implemented in Denmark while being recognised with the privileges it gives. I fully agree with the researcher in that statement, and any Dane and any democratically minded politician should be. The fact that the Danish state today supports mosques economically is therefore, to say the least, inappropriate. Finally, a majority in the Folketing has decided to allow religious Muslims to import Islamic preachers under particularly lenient conditions. What reason is there for one hand spending billions of dollars trying to integrate and educate Muslims in Denmark, while the other gives the Islamic religions special rights to bring preachers here who work for the exact opposite? It just doesn't make any sense. The more Islam fills society, the less room there will be for freedom and democracy. That is our experience, and we should act on that experience. We support the proposal to examine the legal basis for closing mosques and other religious associations that call for violence, behave extremistly or disrupt public order, but we would have liked to see the courage and willingness to begin by depriving the Islamic religions of the special privileges that they have today. Instead, the proposers have unfortunately had another wish that even more Islamic religions should be recognised in Denmark. It is incomprehensible to me to suggest this kind of thing. It is time for the Folketing to recognise that Islam and popular rule are contradictions and act accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150826	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150827	That is just a brief comment on what the rapporteur said here at the end. So, the front page that was on Jyllands-Posten was completely distorted, because these two proposals have to be seen in a context. In other words, we want extremist religions to be closed down and those who then behave properly must be registered so that we can actually control them. We do not in any way wish to recognise a single extremist mosque. It's just to put it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150858	But this is probably where the ways of the New Citizen and Conservatives part. So, for us, it is absolutely crazy to give Islamic preachers particularly lenient conditions for entering Denmark. What purpose does it have? It is also absolutely insane to say to Islamist imams that they have the right to marry, knowing what lies in the Islamic marriage. In other words, it is not the case that they are now entitled to marry Islamic husbands, but that they should do so according to secular and democratic values. It is, of course, an Islamic marriage that you enter into when you are married Islamic. Otherwise, you would probably go to the municipality first and then to your mosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150945	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510150946	Once again, just for the record, we are behind such things. The hate preacher list. Well, we don't want hate preachers and other Islamist imams to come to Denmark. So the way the rapporteur portrays the Conservative People's Party is not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151007-2	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, all these extraneous solutions can be made. Well, then we make special laws for people who have to come in in general, as we also know has hit someone who is not an Islamic preacher of hatred, but who was someone else who had suddenly come on this list. I think that what is missing from the Conservative People's Party is the basic acceptance that the problem here is Islam. Well, you can't solve that with this. So for me it is still a little symptom treatment, but after all it is still a step in the right direction, and we must support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151104	Thank you, sir. President. During a Friday prayer in 2017, Imam Monzer Baajour came with a call to the prominent Muslims who went on killing Jews. The message was wrapped in some warped medieval sermon that stones and trees would speak up and expose the Jewish hiding places so that the Muslims could easily and effortlessly find them and kill them. Why do we allow mosques in this country to be home to such twisted attitudes? And when we see at the same time that a mosque like the Grimhøjmosque, which has been the breeding ground for a great many Syrian warriors, has been radicalised, Conservatives think it is a very good idea to look at how to possibly close an extremist mosque, among other things. inspired by Loyal To Familia. We are well aware that this is not an easy task and that there is no snatching solution, not least because of the constitution and freedom of association. However, as I said, it was also said about Loyal To Familia, and at least in the country court it has so far been possible to ban them. Let's hope it holds in the Supreme Court too. At the same time, as the rapporteur from the Left pointed out, we have heard about, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom. France, which, in the wake of the recent terrorist attacks, has hit hard and, at least, I know, has closed mosques. So we are really sorry that the Social Democratic Party will not even investigate the possibility of closing a mosque that you sweep it so blankly aside. It sounds a little hollow that the Social Democrats are doing what they can to keep Syrian warriors in Syria, while the mosques, who may have helped radicalise these people, are not going to look at how to close. I would also like to say to Mrs Pernille Vermund that, since the Social Democrats reject this proposal, the proposal we have to make, let us say, more peaceful religions, fall away. If we cannot do this, then of course we do not want to do the other thing either, because it is precisely this that we are in danger of having extremist religions registered, and we do not support that in any way. That is why I was really sorry about the hint in Jyllands-Posten, because the two proposals are linked: if one is not implemented, we simply draw the other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151324	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151328	Thank you. The proposers themselves in the comments to the proposal here mention the so-called Taibamoské on Nørrebro and write that it is one of several mosques who practice a behavior strongly contrary to absolutely fundamental Danish values and standards. But this is precisely one of the mosques supported by the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party with special rights, because it is one of the mosques recognised in Denmark. This means that they have special privileges in inviting preachers, they have special privileges in terms of being able to deduct quotas from taxes, and they have special privileges in relation to being able to marry husbands. It is far from all religions that are recognised, so the rapporteur cannot see that having this recognition of religions today, which, at least to such an extent that even the rapporteur's own party says so, is contrary to Danish values, is there something rather strange in that one is not willing to look at it instead of simply saying that we must then ban whole associations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151433	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151434	That is precisely why I am saying that the two proposals must be seen in context. In other words, we want to examine the possibility of being able to close the extremist mosques so that there are no extremist mosques in Denmark and the religions which are then an integral part of Denmark and which do not behave that way, if I may put it that way, we have no objection to being registered, because then there is increased control. But that is precisely why, if this is not implemented, we do not want to implement the other, because then we are going down a path where we start to register problematic religions, and we do not want that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151513	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151514	But could one step along the way, so that the Danes do not have to be completely ridiculous for their treasure crowns, and so that we do not have to stand here and say one thing and then do another, not to make sure that the conditions for obtaining recognition and approval as a religion in Denmark are being looked at, so that it is not the case that you have a mosque, a religion which is recognised on the Ministry's list of recognized religions and which is then shown here in some comments? Not a single party has mentioned that dilemma and the paradox. Well, couldn't we try looking at those terms again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151550	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151551	We would very much like to look at these conditions, because one of the purposes of registering a religion is precisely that the state can then carry out control, so that if they go in the wrong direction, there may be a sanction or you can remove them from the list or whatever it might be. So we look at those rules very, very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151610	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151612	Thank you to the rapporteur for a proposal that we can support. I would really like to continue the debate that Mrs Pernille Vermund started here, because we are now discussing the recognition of religions, and the rapporteur has, after all, come up with a proposal to impose on the government the recognition of much more religions, but at the same time the rapporteur's party has previously been quite critical of, for example. The ugly mosque. I would therefore just like to ask whether the rapporteur does not recognise the oddity of the fact that the rapporteur, on the one hand, requires the Minister to recognise the Grimhøjmoské so that they have some tax advantages and, on the other hand, is thundering against the Grimhøjmoské. Well, if you give the Grimhøjmosque a tax advantage, doesn't it make it easier to run the Grimhøjmosque?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151657	It is precisely there that I had hoped that Mr. Morten Dahlin has listened to what I have said, because the two proposals have to be seen in a complete context, and if it is the case that the government will not investigate how to close the extremist mosques, then of course the second proposal makes no sense. For we Conservatives believe that the extremist mosques do not belong in Denmark, but of course we would like to look at how peaceful religions can register, both because it means that it is controlled, but also because it gives them some benefits, but it must of course only be the religions that live up to the Danish values. I find it hard to see how you can't see the two things hanging together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151740	Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151741	Yes, it is fine that the Conservatives think that the two things are connected, but what is being proposed here today and which we support is asking the government to investigate something. In addition, what was proposed earlier was to impose on the government that some more religions should be recognised. So a very active action is being taken against an investigation. The two things are not entirely related. That is something that has come on afterwards. That is why I would like to ask again: is it really the policy of the Conservative People's Party that more Islamist mosques should have tax advantages and what effect does Mr. Marcus Knuth that's gonna get?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151813-2	Now, sir. Morten Dahlin me some words in my mouth that are totally biased. I've said it over and over again. After all, it is we who have put forward this proposal to investigate the possibility of being able to bring extremist mosques to the Chamber, and I think that speaks its very clear language. But all the other things being equal, I would say that if you had asked Mr. Bertel Haarder, when he was the church minister, I think he actually said that he would have said that religions that are not problematic should then be recognised, because then there is increased control of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151844	Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151846	Actually, I just want to know if sir... Marcus Knuth believes that giving Islam a number of tax advantages in Denmark will lead us to get more or less Islam at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151901-2	As I know, we are discussing a resolution tabled by Conservatives to investigate the possibility of closing extremist mosques. I don't know if it's the same subject, sir. Mads Birde and I are talking about. But this proposal is to be able to close extremist mosques, among other things. with roots in Islamism. It's just to be perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151926	Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151927	However, one of the handles is to make some measures that mean that you get a number of economic benefits, if you stay within some rules, I understand. This must mean that it will be much easier to carry on Islamic preaching in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510151944	Now, allow me to read out what we are debating now: examine the legal basis for closing mosques and other religious associations that call for violence, behave extremistly or disrupt public order. I find it hard to see how any of this is going to mean recognizing Islamist mosques.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152003	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152021	The debate is open. This is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152036	Thank you to the President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting this resolution, which gives us the opportunity to discuss the duty of municipalities to provide guidance on the possibility of returning home with the so-called repatriation aid. As the authors also mention in the motion for a resolution, the government has concluded an agreement with the Left, the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance to change the duty of guidance and introduce a new dedicated return interview. I think that is a good agreement, which I welcome, and the agreed changes to the obligation to provide guidance are part of a draft law which, as you know, was first dealt with last week. At first reading, I also expressed the intention of the government to provide more effective guidance on repatriation. It must be crucial that it works. Therefore, we also want to target and focus the guidance, so we use the forces where it makes the most sense. In fact, that is also how I interpret the intention behind the resolution we are now debating. Therefore, when I read the motion for a resolution, I think that we agree on how, overall, the obligation to provide guidance should be linked. Among other things, I am sensitive. in writing. - The proposers support the introduction of dedicated talks on the return of the group of foreigners defined in the agreement between the Government, the Left, the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance. In addition, as I do, the proposers feel that we should avoid pointless counselling on repatriation, where foreigners who have lived a large part of their lives in Denmark are being guided because they fall short of the labour market and, for example, outside the labour market. I'm gonna go on cash benefits. It makes good sense, of course, that the municipality should not, as a starting point, spend a lot of time and energy to guide a painter's friend, who basically supports herself, about the possibility of returning home with repatriation support, or a newly hatched graduating who has a short contact with the municipality before she expects to begin her journey on the Danish labour market. This therefore suggests that we in the Folketing have a common view of the broad lines when it comes to the obligation to provide guidance. Of course, I'm glad. This also means that what lies in the motion for a resolution, and which we are therefore going to debate today, is about finding the right balance in the composition of local authorities' guidance. The government then thinks that the balance is better in the agreement that has been reached than in this motion for a resolution. It is clear from the agreement we have reached on the new return visits that a new dedicated interview is being introduced for foreigners with more than 5 years of legal residence in Denmark who have been on cash benefits for at least 18 out of the last 36 months. In other words, we want to intensify the guidance for foreigners who, after a long period of time in Denmark, have not found a foothold in the Danish labour market. The dedicated interview on repatriation must ensure that foreigners who are far from the labour market are asked to sit down at a table with an employee from the municipality and actively address the possibility of returning home. At the time of the interview, those concerned will have occasion to consider carefully whether they are on the right shelf in Denmark or whether it would not make better sense to accept the offer of repatriation and return home. In addition, the agreement provides that all new entrants with up to 5 years of legal residence in Denmark should be systematically and frequently advised about the possibility of returning home with repatriation aid. The same is true today. The frequent systematic guidance on the scheme shall include: remind the foreigners concerned that their residence permit in Denmark has been issued for the purpose of temporary stay, as it is stated, and that the residence permit may be withdrawn when the basis for the individual's residence permit is no longer present. Finally, there is one group left which is not covered by the systematic or dedicated guidance which I have just outlined. The group consists of foreigners with more than 5 years of legal residence in Denmark who have not been on cash benefits for more than 18 out of the last 36 months. The group shall include, inter alia: also the Danish nationals with dual nationality who are covered by the scheme. The municipalities will be obliged to provide guidance to that group on the possibility of repatriation when there are other grounds for doing so. This is the third and final group on which the resolution is specifically concerned. As stated in the motion for a resolution, proposers will exempt foreigners from repatriation guidance if they have been legally resident in Denmark for at least 15 years, have not received cash benefits for more than 3 months in the last 3 years and have passed Danish examination 3 or something similar to that. It is therefore in the balance between who should be included in the three groups set up that the difference between the political agreement reached by the government and the motion for a resolution remains primarily. As I said earlier, I am pleased with the agreement on the municipal obligation to provide guidance that has been reached and I believe that in that agreement we have found the right balance. In those words, we cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152529	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152531	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the proposal we are making here will cause significantly more people to go home than the lax agreement made by the government behind the backs of the Conservative and Danish People's Party together with the Radical Left, the Left and the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152554	I dare not put my head on the block and say what the effects of these things will be, because we simply do not know enough about that. However, I have said that my own ambition is that we go from the current 400, which use the repatriation scheme every year, to over 1,000, which I hope. Whether these measures, such as the political agreement, are enough, I do not know, but if that is not enough, if we do not really see that this has any effect, I think it is quite reasonable that we should sit down again and discuss whether we can strengthen the guidance even better. Some of the proposals you have from the Conservatives here may of course be part of that conversation, but first I would like to see if these return talks do not actually bring us somewhere along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152637	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152638	When the government landed the agreement with among others. The Radical Left, the Radical Left, said that it was a fantastic agreement, because now there were fewer foreigners to be guided back home. What will the Minister say if it is true that the intention of the Radical Left, which is, after all, that fewer people are going to go home, actually becomes reality and if the agreement made by the government with the Radical Left leads to significantly fewer returning home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152705	The aim is for more people to take advantage of the scheme. I think this is a good arrangement, both for foreigners and for Danish society, both economically and in terms of integration. There are also some who have not settled in Denmark. So the very purpose is for more people to take advantage of the opportunity, and I also think that more people will take advantage of the opportunity if the instructions can not be a pamphlet that is thrown across the table, or a message in the e-box, but that it is a conversation that is only about the possibility of using repatriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152736	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152757	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party proposes to introduce a dedicated counselling interview once a year for foreigners who have been in Denmark for more than 5 years and who have been on cash benefits for 11⁄2 years of the last 3 years. In addition, the Conservative People's Party proposes to exempt foreigners from repatriation guidance if they (1) have been legally resident in Denmark for 15 years, 2) have not received cash benefits similar to those for more than 3 months in the last 3 years and 3) have passed Danish examination 3 or similar. In the Social Democratic Party, we are very much in favour of the repatriation scheme. Foreigners who have never integrated in Denmark are a major financial burden. Poorly integrated immigrants cost the Treasury 33 billion each year. kr. That is why, in February, we concluded an agreement with the Left, the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance to strengthen and target municipal guidance on repatriation. That agreement is motivated by a desire to ensure that far more foreigners, through dedicated return visits, should accept an offer to return to their countries of origin. As we have recently concluded this, I think that a good agreement to ensure that more people make use of the repatriation scheme and have just first dealt with a legislative proposal to implement this agreement in the legislation, the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152914	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152916	- Sir... Rasmus Stoklund explains to me the logic of how to get more people to go home when the government makes an agreement with the Radical Left, which frees 30,000 of the 60,000 unemployed foreigners who are, from being guided in repatriation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510152937	In the agreement we have made, it is precisely long-term foreigners who are targeted at talks and, in addition, foreigners who have been here for a short time. If Conservatives had any good ideas, and I can imagine nothing more than Conservatives would have had, then I think it is a pity that they did not look rather than embark on some kind of value-policy teasing had taken advantage of the opportunity, along with the rest of us, to improve the scheme when we did it recently. I think it is a fine deal that we got the country together with the Left, the Radical and the Liberal Alliance. I think that Conservatives would have liked to have joined forces at the time, rather than making this proposal now, as well as a proposal last week, which I consider to be of such a rather ridiculous nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153027	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153028	The most ridiculous character lies with the government and the Left, who, under the cover of darkness, is behind our backs in connection with an existing agreement with the Danish People's Party and Conservatives. After all, negotiations took place completely behind our backs, even though we had an existing agreement. So, sir. Rasmus Stoklund must agree with me that the proposal here is more ambitious than the watered agreement that has been made with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153055	No, I don't recognize that, and I certainly don't recognize the fact that it was supposed to happen under the cover of darkness. Conservatives had been more than welcome to participate in the work of improving the agreement that lay. Everyone has an interest in us making as broad agreements as possible here in the Folketing. Conservatives had been welcome there, but instead it appeared that some different social media campaigns were in a hurry to soil the otherwise very fine agreement that was made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153121	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153122	With all due respect: the redeployment service is really not something we like, nor do we like the need for more money to be spent on case handling. The fact is, however, that the course of negotiations, as the rapporteur calls it, took place precisely as Mr. Marcus Knuth tells me. Well, a solution was presented, and especially because we weren't super silly with what Conservatives suggested, I remember that in those days we heard Conservatives say: we have to have more called in for conversations. Regardless of where you stand on this issue, I think that the rapporteur is usually good at it being a little lame right here in order to give a true picture of what was actually going on in those days. I got a call, as I remember, on Fridays. Wednesday after, a deal has been made. Correct me if I am wrong; it may also have been on Thursdays. But immediately after that, an agreement has been reached with the Radical Left and the Left, and that is just what it is, but I have certainly heard Conservatives say it here during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153226	I think there is a slightly different view of what was going on. My view of the process was not that somebody was left out, but it is clear that if you did not have an interest in trying to be part of an agreement and you tried to do what you could to get outside it in order to sharpen a profile in one direction or another, it can of course be difficult. I like the repatriation scheme, as opposed to what has been said here, and I do, because I think it is about the fact that in this context we have found a system that can catch mice for using an old Chinese allegory or paraphrase, and that is what I think is essential here. Otherwise, it might seem a little counterintuitive that it was reasonable to give money to some foreigners to go back home. But if the alternative is that the foreigners stay here and are on passive support for years and they cannot really see how they can get home, and then we can make sure that they return to their country of origin for a much lower amount of money, then all the parties have won on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153322	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153325	Thank you. After all, the redeployment scheme hardly sends any people home. It's, of course, putting people in the eye to pretend that repatriation is going to take place at this. After all, it is a fraction of all the migrants who have come here and who have been granted a residence permit for the past many years, who are going home • well to feel with Danish tax dollars in their pockets. The reason I am taking the floor is simply that the rapporteur makes it appear as if this Conservative proposal is so at the back of the agreement that has been reached, and that is simply not right. That is exactly what the Conservative People's Party was saying in those days.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153402	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153403	I therefore agree that too few people are using the repatriation scheme. That is also why we have had a desire to improve it and to have it targeted. In the past it was presented to a lot of people for whom it was not relevant, and that was one of the reasons why there was a need to change it. This has now been done, and I hope that much more will take advantage of it. Some of those for which it could be relevant are some of the Syrians who have come since 2015 and 2016. 237 of them took advantage of the scheme in the last few years. After all, we do not yet know how many people did it in 2020, but there should be more who took advantage of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153440	There are no more brief comments, so we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153504	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we share the wish of the proposers for better guidance on the possibility of providing support for repatriation. As has been pointed out in some cases, we ourselves have helped to tighten up earlier this year when we reached an important agreement with the government. And we want to be honest and say that we did, because we have some goals in this area that we want to achieve. Right now, far too few people are being repatriated, and we have a wish that within a five-year framework, at least 1,000 repatriations per year will be made available. I also believe that the repatriation scheme will be very important in bringing back the people who came here from Syria in particular at the time. So we look forward positively to this issue being raised so that we can discuss whether this guidance on repatriation works under the best possible conditions. The guide, which was to take place in the municipalities, was not in practice as it should be. It became all too easy to get around, the meetings were often voluntary, or it was a letter that no one read, or a pamphlet that suddenly appeared in the tail of a completely different conversation. Instead of a life on transfer income in Denmark, we offer an offer to foreigners who have been outside the labour market for many years: an opportunity to return to their original home countries. And that is where we expect the aid to be used and then to go home. With this proposal, we have the opportunity to further target the guidance. Instead of just having a two-year return interview for the foreigners to whom the proposal is addressed, we can offer one conversation every year. And it may well be that that's where we're going. Maybe we should just breathe and see how what we've agreed works. But I can easily see that it may be necessary. As I said, we need to be much higher in relation to the proportion of repatriations, and we need to go, in particular, where the municipalities take repatriation talks much more seriously than they have done in the past. Many people have been out to say that what we agreed was that we went from everyone going to repatriation and that it was only about 10,000 a year. The truth is that it was just the opposite way; there were not real repatriation conversations earlier. So we share the wishes of the proposers, as I read it, that we should have as many as possible for repatriation talks, where there is also an opportunity for them to actually repatriate. Although the February agreement went in that direction, it may well be that we need to do more. As the Conservatives have said, it may well be that we need to flesh out the rules further, and we in the Left are very open to that may be necessary. The aim must be to increase the number of repatriations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153831	Sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153833	I have two questions. When the Left spends a lot of time saying that it is not going to make foreign policy with the Radical Left, why was it necessary to go out and make an agreement bypassing the Conservative and Danish People's Party with the Radical Left? The second question: I was not quite clear whether the Left will vote for this or against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153856	We have not reached an agreement with the Radical Left; I have not been to any negotiations on repatriation with the Radical Left at any time. The Radical Left will vote in favour of this agreement, I see, but they have never been part of the negotiations. Nor have I ever informed the opposite when I have informed the Conservatives along the way about the course of negotiations. But I have never informed the Radical Left about it, and I have not heard a word from the Radical Left in the hours I have negotiated repatriation with the government. However, the fact that they have seen the light and voted in favour of something they have never voted for in the past, namely that we are getting more people to return, in particular, to Somalia, Syria, Turkey and the former Yugoslavia, I just welcome. Then we were asked how we vote. Well, we will be voting in favour of tightening this up if we do not think that the agreement we have reached is enough to repatriate. So we can easily see ourselves in what Conservatives are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153956	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510153957	I would like to thank you very much for this, because we can all make mistakes in life. Making an alien agreement which appeals to the Radical Left is a major mistake, but if the Left votes for it here, it shows that it is actually a strengthened repatriation that you want. And all the other things being equal, I hope that the Left will also support it when we table it as an amendment to the general law on repatriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154024	Well, I'm glad if we can stay focused on what it's all about, namely repatriation, and not all sorts of other counter-current reports about what we've been through. It must be about sending more people back to their countries of origin on the repatriation scheme. That must be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154053	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154114	In the Danish People's Party we are in favour of the repatriation scheme. We think it is incredibly sensible to ensure that people get a greater incentive to go home, and it is also worth paying for, because it eases the situation in Denmark, it reduces integration problems and reduces the problems of the failed immigration policy that has been pursued for far too long. So it is good to have a repatriation scheme, and it is also good to have a system where we make sure we have many conversations with people, so that they realise that this system exists and what it is about and that they understand that there is this pressure that we actually want to see people who do not want to become a genuine equal part with Danish society, we would rather leave the country. That is why we also like this motion for a resolution tabled by Conservatives because it increases the number of people who are going to a return interview. Where I see a problem, this is a very, economical view of people: that it is people who are outside the labour market who have to have repatriation talks, and it is, of course, a pity to have people who are financially burdened by Danish society, but it is also very bad to have people who are culturally burdened by Danish society. Now we have just had the motion for a resolution that we should try to find out if we can dissolve mosques that are calling for violence and extremism, and we support this to such an extent, but these people can be at work, and they may have been so for many years and still be a huge cultural burden for Danish society. So I am not sure that it is a good idea to say that just because you have been in work and in this case 15 years are being proposed, you should no longer have a return interview, because it can be really nice to have someone repatriated from Taiba Mosqueen or Grimhøjmoskeen, and they may have been working for 15 years. So I would like to consider whether we can try to table a motion for a resolution. Perhaps those who have tabled the motion for a resolution can do so themselves, which may include those people who may not be financially burdened by Danish society, but are doing so to a large extent culturally or religiously, because there is no reason to free them, and I think it should be clear to everyone, and especially to themselves, that they can be supported to leave the country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154400	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154421	Thank you. With this resolution, the Conservative People's Party proposes to introduce a dedicated counselling interview once a year for foreigners who have been in Denmark for more than 5 years and who have been on cash benefits for 11⁄2 years of the last 3 years. In addition, it is proposed to exempt foreigners from return guidance if they (1) have been legally resident in Denmark for 15 years, 2) have not received cash benefits similar to those for more than 3 months in the last 3 years and 3) have passed Danish examination 3 or similar. In the SF we support the repatriation scheme and in previous debates we have criticised the fact that that scheme did not pay attention to criminals being able to make use of it. I am thinking of the Huda case, where a well-integrated mother, along with her 9-year-old son, was killed by her spouse. He should never have had his hands on that scheme, and it is a disgrace that not enough attention has been paid to this gap in legislation, but fortunately that has been corrected now. As I have said, we are in favour of the repatriation scheme and have just last week first dealt with a legislative proposal with a number of changes to the municipal obligation to provide guidance on repatriation, but we cannot support this resolution. As we also mentioned last week, we are concerned that the frequency of repetitions and counselling in repatriation can prevent employment and integration efforts. We know that several municipalities have indicated that the increased focus on repatriation may be inappropriate for an otherwise constructive cooperation between the case worker and the citizen in the employment-oriented integration effort. Thus, we do not think it is appropriate to introduce a dedicated counselling interview once a year, but we are in favour of exempting foreigners from repatriation guidance if they have been legally resident in Denmark for 15 years, because it makes no sense for foreigners who have lived in Denmark for so many years to receive meaningless guidance on repatriation. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF does not support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154648	Thank you for the floor. The Conservative People's Party is putting forward a motion for a resolution in which the title is better guidance for foreigners on the possibility of repatriation aid. In general, it is difficult to oppose something that is better, and that is why the Radical Left, together with the Social Democratic Party, in other words the Government, the Left and the Liberal Alliance, was included in an agreement which is precisely aimed at improving this guidance system and which half the target group for this duty from 60,000 to 30,000. This is done by removing the group of Danish nationals with dual nationality and foreigners legally resident in Denmark for more than 5 years who have not received cash benefits for 11⁄2 years out of the last 3 years. And why, then, should they waste time in repatriating conversations? Very unworthy questions of this nature have been reported to people who did not have the slightest idea of repatriating, and this means that there are now two groups left for the municipal guidance obligation, namely on the one hand foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark for less than 5 years, and on the other hand there is no change for the target group of foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark for more than 5 years who have received cash benefits similar to those for less than 11⁄2 years out of the last 3 years. That group of people will then be given more advice every two years on repatriation than today at meetings that have been due to be held with the municipalities, and that is what we think is in the title of the Conservatives' motion for a resolution, namely an agreement on better guidance. We fully support this, it is a very good agreement which simplifies and reduces in the people's group where these conversations have been a waste of time. That is common sense and, as the draft law is currently under way and we have just reached agreement on better guidance, we see no reason to support the Conservative People's Party's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154923	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154925	Thank you. When I read the press release from Mr. Kristian Hegaard about this new agreement, I could see that there was something similar to this being a good deal, because there are fewer people to be guided in repatriation. So is it all the other equal Radical Left's view that as few as possible, and actually no one, should be guided in repatriation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510154952	First of all, I would like to say that the repatriation scheme is a system supported by the Radical Left. If you repatriate, it makes sense that you get support to be able to establish yourself for the first time in the country to which you go back. And in relation to the specific statement in the press release, as Mr. Marcus Knuth asks, is it true that the Radical Left was delighted that it was taken out that a large number of citizens, for whom it was useless and crazy, had to go to these conversations where there was no purpose for it other than that it had to do, i.e. a rule for the system and for the sake of bureaucracy that applied to people who were fully integrated. And because the municipality had to remember to say it at the end of the conversation, one had to, despite the fact that one thought it was a little absurd to ask about it. And we were really happy that the target group of this scheme was halved from just over 60,000 to 30,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155052	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155054	Just so I understand, sir. Kristian Hegaard correct: Does Mr. Kristian Hegaard thus that the 30,000 unemployed foreigners, who no longer need to be counseled in repatriation, are well integrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155108	If you have dual citizenship, I do not think that at present there is any reason to travel to another country, but to stay here in Denmark where you live. And if you have not been in the cash aid system, there is a good chance that you will work, contribute and pay taxes in Denmark, to the welfare, to the community we know about. I think that is a good basis for being well integrated, so that you back up and do what you can, do what you can, on an equal footing with others. Well, then, sir. Marcus Knuth probably find someone convicted of crime or something, but that's true for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155146	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That is why we thank the rapporteur. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155205	Overall, we in the Enhedslist believe that the possibility of obtaining financial assistance if you want to return to your country of origin is a good idea. If, for example, are Afghans who have been in Denmark for 20 years, but now want to return to Afghanistan to participate in the reconstruction of their country, then I think they should certainly be supported for it. It is good for those who want to take advantage of the option of repatriation that they can have easy access to advice and guidance on precisely this. Our optics must also have access to that. But that municipalities should actively seek out foreigners and try to motivate them to leave Denmark is definitely not a good idea, and it is not for many reasons. First of all, it is a very strange signal to send to people who are potentially born and raised in Denmark that suddenly a social worker should sit with the municipality and try to lure them into moving to a country they have never lived in. Why on earth would they have an interest in that? When you do, you treat Danish citizens who have always lived here as second-class citizens. If the municipality is to actively invite foreigners to a slip home with you-conversations once a year, one is sure that at the same time one is working against the employment effort, which I also find that the Conservative People's Party is very concerned about. We know from experts in this area who have examined exactly the obstacles to immigrants entering the labour market, that this will be a factor in making it even worse, so that it will reduce motivation. Instead of the municipality with one hand making an employment effort that doesn't work, and then with the other hand making it all worse by making these return visits, we could, instead of improving the employment effort. It would be much better for us as a country to activate the people who are already here, and indeed we lack the labour force. So instead of spending time and money and resources to make people feel inappropriate and undesirable in Denmark and at the same time reducing employment opportunities for them, we could do the opposite, namely focus our energy and the energy of the municipalities, not least on good integration efforts and good employment efforts. For some of the problems of today's employment effort and therefore this comes directly from a survey where immigrant women who want to get to work have stated that no targeted effort is being made because they already feel that the municipality perceives them as unfit for work. So instead of sending them in relevant internships, they are placed in random offers that have nothing to do with their competences. It makes absolutely no sense for us. This proposal, we believe, is against effective employment efforts. We also believe that it is talking down to people who have lived in Denmark for many years, and therefore Enhedslisten can't support the proposal as surprisingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155523	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155555	Foreigners staying in Denmark must support themselves. If they cannot do so, their residence permit must be withdrawn. The right to public support must be linked to Danish citizenship. From the New Citizens' point of view, the relief is an untenable patchwork solution, which should give the impression that many people are being repatriated. But the fact is that quite a few exits. If you look only at the more than 20,000 Syrians who came here or migrants who came here in 2015, they will not be repatriated until 2050. By then, many of them will probably have had children, and in that light we are well into the year 2100 before we are back at the starting point before the big failure in 2015, if you try to pretend that the repatriation scheme is the solution. In other words, while the Danes get the impression that the repatriation scheme solves the major problems that we face, we spend the Danish tax dollars paying for very few people. It doesn't. The problems we are facing, caused by mass immigration from Muslim countries caused by decades of failed immigration policy, are not solved by the fact that a few hundred or even up to 1,000, if you are very optimistic, travel out every year and certainly not as long as there are still people coming here. We don't need any more money on paperwork and municipal case managers. It is time to grasp the root of the nettle and solve the problems from scratch. The box should not be opened further to foreign nationals. It must be completely closed. That is why new citizens cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155747	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155809	Thank you, President. It was a really sad day when the Left and the Social Democrats went behind the backs of the Conservative and Danish People's Party to make a relaxation of the return policy with the government, the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance. Conservatives do not think it makes sense to free 30,000 out of 60,000 unemployed foreigners from return guidance. We actually had a really, really nice deal • the old agreement with the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party. Conservatives would have liked to have helped to do even better. But I think we are all familiar with the process: the Left and the Social Democrats went behind our backs. At least we feel that we feel that we are making an agreement where we are not there, and we feel an agreement that has the backing of the Radical Left. I think that speaks clearly its own language. Quite frankly, I never understand why it was necessary, not least on the part of the Left, who has spent a great deal of time saying that you do not do foreign policy with radicals, and then you do it anyway. But, of course, I will not necessarily be able to explain that either. Conservatives, with this proposal, offer a very good opportunity to rectify the lax agreement with the Radical Left and then to tighten up the current policy, which will lead to more people going home. So I would like to thank the Left for changing course and now support our proposal and of course thanks to the Danish People's Party, which has been shoulder to shoulder with Conservatives throughout this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510155948	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160006	The debate is open. First of all, I welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160032	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council and thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution, which is about abolishing the rule that a residence permit will lapse when a foreigner has been abroad for more than three months on a re-educational or other stay abroad of a negative impact on education and integration. The motion for a resolution is intended to ensure that foreign children who are thus subject to social checks do not lose their residence permit. Let me start by saying that I very much agree with the comments contained in the resolution. For children who are sent out of the country on a reeducation journey, experience being helped by Denmark, not being punished by Denmark. Because if you live in Denmark, you can never stay too Danish. It is an absurd idea, and those who subscribe to it have completely misunderstood what it means to live and live in Denmark. The three-month rule that Enhedslisten proposes to abolish should prevent parents and others from sending children on reeducation trips. It was then a preventive measure. It should be a warning that then you risked not being able to get the children back to Denmark. But we must be honest and say that the rule does not work as intended. It doesn't work as intended. Because there are still children being sent on a reeducational journey, and if the children succeed in coming back then they are not sure whether they can retain their residence permit. This winter, we discussed the government's bill for stronger action against social control. It was mostly about social control in connection with marriages and retention in marriages and similar relationships. However, during the course of the treatment we also discussed how we can prevent reeducational trips, not least as a result of the book called "Reeducation," about the girl Sami, whom I hope many of you have had the opportunity to read. When I read that book myself, I took a small note in the margin when I read about how her residence permit lapsed when she returned to Denmark. I wrote a little book, 'cause here's something that doesn't work. Following on from the book and the discussion that the book led to, I think it is quite natural for the government to announce that we can support this motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten. But it is also the case that the implementation of this motion for a resolution cannot stand alone, because it will not only solve the problem that a foreigner may lose his or her residence permit as a result of a re-education journey. That is why we must continue to work against these reeducational journeys. I therefore look forward to presenting in the next Assembly a bill containing this proposal, if otherwise there can be agreement on it, and further action against reeducational journeys. The starting point for such a new law, such a new policy, must be that we must help the children. Because it is not the children who have been caught in the wrong world view. They're not the ones that need to be hit. We have to make sure they get help. After all, they're the victims in these cases. With those words, we can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160412	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160416	Thank you. Thank you for the government's support for the proposal; we are very, very pleased about that in the Enhedslisten. I just want to add that we fully agree with the government that this is not enough. But just when it comes to changing the rules on residence permits, and when it comes to rules on foreign policy, our experience with the government is that we often have to start with the lowest common denominator to see how far we can go. I assume that the Minister has discovered this and can also count on it. We are very much looking forward to seeing the initiatives that the government might otherwise take. After all, we saw that the rule that applies to adults was also abolished, i.e. that you lose your residence permit if you have been out of the country for more than 6 or 12 months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160503	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160504	Well, it is true that it is probably not all proposals on foreign policy here in the Parliamentary Chamber where the government and the Enhedslisten end up voting together, but I do seem to have noted that not only between the government and the Enhedslisten, but actually very broadly in the Folketing, there is a recognition that the challenges we have with social control are far from being dealt with and that the actions that are needed are something that can actually gather very broad political support. That is why, of course, we also hope that as many parties as possible will support not only the proposal you have put forward here from the Enhedslisten, but also the other initiatives we have taken from the government against reeducational journeys. We have telephone hotlines that you can call, and there are still a lot of inquiries from children and young people in Denmark that fear being sent out by their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160609	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160613	I don't have many more questions. After all, it is not often that the government supports foreign policy proposals from the Enhedslisten. I have just one question for the Minister. I agree with what the Minister says about prevention and about the fact that we have to take action in many places. And we have also made a number of common agreements in this area already, as the Minister also says. But does the Minister recognise that the basis of residence is actually quite important in the fight against negative social control?
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160641	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160642	Yes, I do. Let me just put a few extra words on that with who makes alien politics with whom. Now we have also just had a discussion in connection with another resolution on an agreement made by the government with the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left, where the very fact that the agreement was made with the Radical Left was problematized in itself. Well, it was from this platform that a party here in the Folketing was told that they were not the living rooms. I think it is very important that we also move in foreign policy to a place where we listen to the arguments and the substance and take an interest in it and where all the parties sitting in this Parliament hall are the living rooms when we discuss with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160719	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160735	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten proposes to remove the provision in the Aliens Act that the stay of minors for more than three months automatically leads to the withdrawal of residence permits. The proposal is intended to ensure that minors subject to negative social checks do not lose their residence permit. In the Social Democratic Party we would like to thank Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution, because the re-education and negative social control of children and young people are serious issues that we in Parliament are obliged to combat and which the Enhedslisten has been good at bringing to the market on several occasions. In other words, we are also concerned with strengthening our efforts towards reeducational journeys. It has significant negative consequences for the well-being of children and young people when they are sent by force to their countries of origin for a longer period of time because they have become too Danish. And that is why we have recently adopted a legislative proposal in which, among other things, authorities. have the possibility of including travel documents from minors who are at risk of being sent abroad on a re-educational journey. We support the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160840	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510160901	Thank you for the floor. I can hear from the Minister's speech that we have read the same book. When I read the book about Sami, as she is named in the book "She's something else in reality," and I have met the real Sami, especially the passage where it is described that she has been sent back on a re-educational journey, and that she realizes that there is nothing she is for a short period of time, but that there is something she has been for several years, I knew that we have to look at this again. And we in the Left would very much like to discuss social control. This is a very, very important issue for us, not the children or young people who are sent to re-education camps abroad by their parents. And the legislation we have in this area is, of course, tailored to prevent it from doing so. And obviously it cannot do that in the real world. Probably with the best intentions in mind, legislation has been put in place to punish the girls who are being sent away. Therefore, this is one of the rare times when I have the opportunity to stand on Parliament's platform as a Leftman and embrace a proposal from the Enhedslisten so completely and unreservedly. I could have put it on my own. It is our hope that there will be negotiations in this area so that we can turn this whole problem of reeducational journeys on our heads so that we can get something done about this. I have no idea how to achieve that. I hope that a broad circle of parties will be called for negotiations, and then the starting point must be that, regardless of how measures are put together to prevent reeducational journeys, they should not be put together in such a way that it penalises the girls and boys who are sent off on these terrible journeys. With those words, the Left can therefore support the resolution and look forward to the adoption of legislation in the area that changes the problem we have today in the next session.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161143	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161157	Thank you. It is an injustice with the so-called reeducational journeys that must be avoided at all costs. Re-educational trips are, after all, when parents send their children to their parents' country of origin to ensure that the children do not become too Danish. We must avoid that. If you go to your country of origin, you have to leave the whole family and stay down there, then you have to repatriate. It should not be ensured that the foreign culture continues in Denmark and is strengthened through such reeducational journeys. That is why we have supported the automatic withdrawal of a residence permit for minors who are sent on a re-educational journey. It is true that it can be seen as a punishment for the child, but it can also be seen as a punishment by the family and therefore have a preventive purpose, that is, that you do not do it because you then know that you will not be able to live together as a family. This is the one that is positive about the provision that Enhedslisten wants to change. The second is, after all, the unfortunate situation in which the re-educational journey actually works, and one, for example. gets a radicalised young person out of what will then be allowed to retain his residence permit in Denmark. I am certainly not convinced that it is wise to relax foreign policy in this area, so as to maintain the residence permit for young people sent on re-educational journeys. I understand the intention, and I think it is sympathetic. Now I have not read the book on Samira, which many people are talking about, so I cannot refer to it. But I understand that the problem is that the girl has been sent on a reeducational journey against her will and cannot come back. And this is a terrible situation. But it is very often the case that punishment is quite tired, but the preventive effect they have is very positive. So I do not think it is wise to relax foreign policy in this area. In any case, there will have to be considerably more cases before I think we should consider them. It has, I believe, a preventive effect, that you know that you cannot reunite as a family if you send your children on a reeducational trip; that is to say that it is simply so wrong and that it is also going to hurt yourself. Yeah, those were the words. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161501	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161503	Thank you. After all, we agree so far that reeducational journeys are an absolutely terrible thing. But what then puzzles me is that the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal, since you can see that it does not have a preventive effect. There are still plenty of young people who are being sent on reeducational trips, and this very rule means that the young people are being punished. In other words, it is a double sentence that they are first punished by their parents by being sent on a re-educational journey; afterwards they are punished by Denmark because they lose their residence basis. I don't think we're gonna help them like this. So I really just want to know if Dansk Folkeparti has some other ideas about how we can help these young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161545	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161547	Well, it's absolutely true that it can seem baroque and as if you're punishing the kid. What could be done was that you could take the basis of residence from the whole family so that they could be assembled in the country of origin. It is also not fun for the young person who has become too Danish in the eyes of the goose for the parents. So there's no solution. But I would say that no one knows how many people refrain from sending their children on a reeducational journey because they know that this can happen. Well, that's the kind of dark figure you can't recognize. So it may well be that the law has an effect that we just cannot measure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161631	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161633	It's true there's a dark number there. We do not know how this works preventively, but what we know is that it certainly penalises the young people who lose their residence in Denmark. That is why I think it should lie just in order to make the rule so that we can help the young people who are sent on a re-educational journey. They probably experience it as a reeducation camp, so in this way it was a very appropriate little pronunciation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161704	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161704-2	In other words, it may be that there is reason to change the law, but I do not want to change it in the direction proposed by Mrs Lund, because it would then call for the practice of reeducation to continue, and I think that is very, very wrong. But one might then consider taking the basis of residence from the whole family • I would think that was more right. So it could be a constructive proposal, and one could just make an amendment to the motion for a resolution; I would urge the authors of the motion for a resolution to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161740	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510161755	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten for tabling this motion for a resolution that residence permits do not automatically lapse for minors who have been on a re-educational journey. Those of us who have read the book "The Resurrection," published by Information, have been confronted with a deep pain at the evil that parents are able to commit against a daughter, and subsequently not least a deep pain at the failure that the Danish state put the girl in the book to feel, in accordance with the law. It is a young woman who was born and raised in Denmark and who, after many years of humiliation and forced marriage, finds her way to Denmark, but then is told that she no longer has a connection with the country because her residence permit has expired. She must apply for asylum in her own country. My party chairman and I have been out to trouble this gap in legislation, and in this respect we have also made a proposal to help these young people so that they are not punished both by their parents and by the state that has to look after them. I have even mentioned the problem to the Minister on several occasions, who has promised to look at it. That is why I am very, very pleased that the Enhedslisten is presenting this motion for a resolution today, so much so thank you for it, and I am also very pleased that the government has listened and will change the legislation. The reason I'm reacting so deeply to these reeducational journeys is my personal knowledge of a teenager who was sent to a hole in the ground. It is about a young girl born and raised in the West, incredibly beautiful and more than ordinary intelligent and with ambition to take on a higher education. This girl fell very much in love with a man the parents didn't want her to marry, and it happened that she ran away from home. But the mother assured her that she would arrange for a wedding party to be held for her with that man if she returned home. The girl believed in the mother and returned home, after which she was confronted with massive domestic violence, which degenerated into hospitalization. Then the parents provided a one-way ticket to a village in the home country where the girl was deprived of her passport, ID card and telephone. The message from her mother to the new guardian was: Give her to the first and the best who come and propose to her so that we can clear our honor. The girl's tears and begging for forgiveness helped nothing. The family in the West did not want to have anything to do with her, and in the village she was daily subjected to insults and condescending words, always being told that she was dirty. I can't believe a girl who grew up in the West is going to experience this. Those who came and proposed to her did not match her at all in any way, for only the very poor and uneducated men, who in many cases were the age of her father, wanted her. The girl thus married against her will, and no one took her tears and suffering seriously. The upbringing in the village came in this way to last several years, because first you wanted to make sure that she learned from her mistakes and got used to the unwanted man. Her dreams of education and life with the one she loved were thus shattered and she could then continue her life in another European country, so as not to risk meeting her former boyfriend. These are the young people we are among them. will protect with this motion for a resolution. That is why I am very pleased to deal with this motion for a resolution which seeks to secure the residence permit for young people who have been sent on a re-educational journey. I can only say that we in the SF support 100% of this resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Sorry, he's from the Conservative People's Party. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162204	I can't believe I didn't even think about it myself. Embarrassing. I'll be brief. Negative social control and re-educational journeys are an evil that we must put an end to, but our legislation must not, of course, hit the children who are the victims in such situations. We think this is a very fine proposal on the part of Enhedslisten, a rare example of how we can find common ground, at least in this corner of foreign policy. Then, of course, I expect Enhedslisten to support our new very good agreement on citizenship. Well, at any rate, we hope that we can get a report on this proposal, where we are, I think, very many parties who would like to contribute to formulating proposals on how to put parents behind negative social control and reeducation journeys to life without punishing children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162255	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur, there are no brief comments. Yes, there is a brief comment, and it has come into being right now. Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162301	I just want to say thank you for your support and then inform Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth says that what we support at least in the Conservative People's Party is a corner of the jurisdiction that is about giving better treatment to drug addicts. I think it is just a little more realistic that we are going to support that proposal than that we are going to support the new citizenship agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162323	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162323-2	Thank you. I am glad that there are two areas where we can work together, but it is an avalanche that has been set in motion here, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162331	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more brief comments now. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162344	Thank you. When you have legislation that seems to punish children for the actions of the parents, it is quite instinctively natural to say that something is wrong here. I feel the same way at once. If, in the new citizens, we are worried about going all the way with this resolution, there are two reasons. On the one hand, we fear that the young people who have left, who are actually being Islamised, will be allowed to come home with all the problems it may have, and, on the other hand, we fear that we will send a signal to the parents that this can be done without the consequences. As we understand the legislation today, it is already an individual assessment that is the basis for losing your residence permit. If so, for example. can be shown that the young person, the child who has been sent on a re-educational journey, has tried to return home before the journey should actually end, is an opportunity not to withdraw the residence permit. Similarly, there are travels to countries of origin which can easily be made without it being a problem at all and without talking about re-education in the sense that we do when we talk about Islamic indoctrination. We really wanted to make sure that this problem is solved, and as the figures now look, it doesn't look like it's going to be solved. As I have said, we have no desire to punish children unnecessarily, but we have a desire that you cannot send your child on a re-educational journey, and we have to make a fight with it and with the young people who have been sent on a re-educational journey and who come back to Denmark, because there are also some of them, and therefore they think that they have found the only truth in the world in a radicalised form of Islam. So we really support the intentions behind the motion for a resolution here, but we also hope that in committee we can sort out what we have of common purpose for this. Because if the intention is simply to relax the framework, we are not in it, but if the intention is to ensure more targeted action and, in fact, to punish those who are the criminals here, the parents who send their children, we would like to be involved in it. But we have to look at the committee work where we land. In this way there may even be a bridge built between Enhedslisten and Conservatives via a party that after all shares other views with Enhedslisten too. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162641	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. And so I will give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510162700	Thank you. I can start by saying that I know that the Radical Left also supports the proposal. After all, in the last few years, the Enhedslisten has managed to make agreements with the other parties on the parliamentary basis and the government, where we have tried to make efforts to combat negative social control. Unfortunately, there are many cases in Denmark with young people who are subjected to exactly negative social control, but there has not been much help to get. Now mental violence, which is often a large part of negative social control, is criminalised independently. We have received more funding for organisations working against negative social control. We've got shelters for young people with a double minority background who, unfortunately, are all too often subjected to this type of abuse by those around them. Although I am really sorry that this phenomenon exists in Denmark, I am really glad that we can work together to do something about it. And that is why I would very much like to commend the government today. It doesn't happen very often, as many of you I'm usually in this room with, well know, but I'd like to do it today, because just in these cases of negative social control, I actually think we're good at putting the differences aside and looking at the substance and helping the young people, whom we really all want to help. This proposal we are discussing today, which the government supports, and I really, really, really appreciate it, will make a huge difference to the young people involved, in other words to help them. And I do not know if this is the first time, but I think it can be counted in one hand how many alien proposals and proposals for amendments to the Aliens Act from the Enhedslisten government have supported. It doesn't happen very often, so I also feel a little, it's a kind of anniversary today. It is also not so often that I get praise from both Mr. Mads Fuglede, Minister and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund in one and the same debate. This is rare, I must say, so I would say that today is an eventful Monday. But back to the proposal: this provision, which we are proposing to amend now, was introduced in order to try to prevent negative social controls in the form of re-educational journeys. And what we have found out is that it has exactly the opposite effect. It punishes young people; it punishes those who are sent away. First these young people get a punishment by being sent on a re-educational journey by their parents, and then they get a punishment from the Danish state, which just snaps their residence permit. I do not think that in any way can be a help or a solution to the things we want to solve. I would also like to say that the trees do not grow into heaven, and I did know a little in advance by the Danish People's Party and New Citizens would not support this proposal. But I would say that in the Enhedslisten we do not actually regard this as a relaxation in the area of foreigners. If the government would like to have ideas for relaxation in the Aliens Act, of course we have plenty in the back catalogue; then the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and Mr. Rasmus Stoklund just let me know. But we do not really see this particular proposal as a relaxation in the law on foreigners. This proposal is about protecting the people who are the victims of the negative social control that we all stand in here so often talking about and cursing far away. Therefore, I can of course be sorry that the Danish People's Party and New Citizens will not support it, but just as the respective rapporteurs listen to our intentions, we will also listen to yours. I certainly hope that with this motion for a resolution we will be able to settle with the double punishment that young people sent on a re-educational journey are being subjected to, just as I hope that we will be able to maintain the broad consensus in this area of substance. And I actually think it is learning that we have to go with us when we discuss foreign policy: to keep our eyes on the ball. In any case, I would just like to say that I am very pleased that there is support for this proposal. We look forward to seeing what the government will bring in this autumn, and it would look awful like us if we did not have a lot of kicks and ideas for it. So thank you very much for your support for this proposal. I look forward to the committee reading and to the fact that we are going to vote on it in this Chamber. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163137	Thank you to the rapporteur. A few have asked for brief comments. The first is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163143	Thank you. It may well be that my rapporteur's speech was unclear, because I think that there are nuances in this which one has to bear in mind when discussing it. We agree that there is something wrong with punishing the child, punishing the child. That is, of course, a hostage-taking, and then you say to the hostage that has been detained, and that is really what is happening here: it is you we are punishing. What we're just asking is, if you don't put something else in place, what are we gonna do? If we do not ensure that there is a special punishment for the parents or do something else, we will not be able to counteract what we want to counteract. We can also be concerned that, if there are reeducational journeys, the young people who have left can come back radicalised, because what do we do? We would like to see, and that is why I say it, that in the committee work we can talk about what we put in place when we take this out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163250	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163251	I therefore agree that this debate deserves to have its nuances in it. I just think we've replaced something. We have criminalised psychological violence, and we have just adopted other legislative proposals that tighten up the penalties if someone is subjected to negative social control. So I do not think it is without consequences, in fact, to send your children on a reeducational journey. To the second part, which is about radicalisation and the question of how best to be radicalized, whether it is about being in the country in which your parents have forced you to be re-educated, and where you may also have been forced to marry, or whether it is about to come to Denmark, where we have some of the most skilled professional staff in the area of radicalisation: I believe in the latter. That is why I believe that this proposal is, as it were, part of a greater effort which we are in full swing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163341	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163342	It is true that we have tightened the penalties for social checks, but I am aware that there is no mention in the Aliens Act of losing your residence permit. In this way, we move from something that is quite far-reaching to something that is less far-reaching. In fact, I would prefer it to be said that it is the parents who send their children on re-educational journeys that are punished. One must therefore still remember that it is the parents' responsibility to have children, and they send them to a country that is their own, and if you turn it around a little, we would also think it was fair that our children could come to Denmark. But with all the genes that it has for the children and Danish society, it should be the case that the parents were punished more severely than the punishment we are giving to the children today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163424	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163425	Now there are other ways of measuring punishment than by depriving people of their residence permit. Mrs Pernille Vermund is quite right in saying that it is not written into the Aliens' Act that the residence permit will be deprived of one if someone is subjected to negative social control, but we have listed all sorts of other ways of increasing the penalty, so depriving some of the residence permit is not the only punishment we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163451	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163454	Thank you. I think that Mrs Rosa Lund is right in saying that foreign policy does not have to be as binary, that is, tight-slap, as it often is in this Chamber, and I too, it is true that this is not a question of that. In the optics of social democracy, this is a good proposal from the Enhedslisten, because these children have been abandoned once by their parents who have done something unforgivable, so it's almost impossible to imagine that you can travel far away, leave your children with someone they don't know, and then leave. It is a huge failure of these children, and that is why society should not abandon them afterwards, and that is why I would actually just like to sign for the proposal from the Enhedslisten, which I think is both important and sympathetic. Yeah, that's kind of just the thing, there wasn't a question in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163539	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163541	Thank you for that, and I must also be honest and admit it, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, that this also gives me a little bit of hope for the next time, when we will probably have some more discussions in the field of foreigners, and not hope that we will necessarily agree • I don't think it's a secret that Enhedslisten and the government are very far apart in the field of foreigners • but more of a hope that it all doesn't have to be black and white, and that we don't have to have such a tighter-slaps-discussion, but more of a discussion about the substance and what we think makes the most sense. So don't worry, sir. Rasmus Stoklund: Before I put words in your mouth, that's what my hope is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163617	I have to warn you of direct indictment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210510163638	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 11 May 2021, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
