ParlaMint-DK_20210615130148	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130203	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130208	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 were adopted by the committee, or on Amendments Nos 1 and 2 were accepted by the committee. 3 of a minority (SF), joined by a majority (other committee)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130236	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130241	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (RV), joined by a majority (S, V, DF, SF, EL and KF)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 2 of a minority (RV), joined by a minority (SF and EL), which was rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee, and if no one objects, it will consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130331	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130337	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Proposal for a law amending the law on the right of employers to require employees to be tested for covid-19 etc. Law on the posting of employees, etc. B. Proposal for a law on the prevention of covid-19 infection when employers provide accommodation for employees and the law on the obligation to ensure the covid-19 test of incoming workers after entry into Denmark. The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in A. 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in B. 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130425	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130429	Thank you. The reopening of society is now in full swing. Slowly, but surely, normality can again begin to come into the vast majority of corners of society. It is gratifying, but it is also a great relief. It is for all of us, both the companies that have been hard hit by decommissioning, the citizens who have been concerned about their own health or the health of their relatives, the young people who have not had a normal youth life for the past 18 months, those who have been worried about losing their jobs or concerned about whether they could find a new one. The Government and the Danish Parliament have together shown great goodwill to hold hands under as many as possible. I think we can be proud of this together. As the reopening takes place, it is also time to look forward to phasing out aid packages and compensation schemes. This was decided by a broad majority in May, when we reached an agreement on a summer and business package and the phasing out of aid packages. In the agreement we agreed that, despite the reopening, there are still some groups for whom normalisation is further along the way. We must, of course, keep our hand under and help that group so that they do not have no dependent base when the aid packages are phased out. That is why the draft law we are discussing today is also the implementation of parts of the framework agreement we concluded in May. The bill contains two elements. Firstly, by means of the legislative proposal, we are introducing easier access to the benefit system for self-employed people who, despite the reopening, are still being challenged. The scheme is targeted at the self-employed who have otherwise been on a temporary compensation scheme in the last three months before the end of the compensation scheme. For them, the bill means that they will have the opportunity to join the unemployment benefit system without prior membership of the cash register. In addition, the self-employed who make use of the daily allowance amnesty scheme will be allowed to cease temporarily in July, August and September 2021 so that they can receive daily allowances without having to close their business and CVR number. Secondly, we extend the sickness benefit scheme to persons who are at increased risk from covid-19 infection. Although a great many have already been vaccinated, there will still be employees who are at increased risk compared to corona. For them, it remains important that they have an adequate level of financial security when they remain limited in participating in the reopening of society. It is important that we continue to pay attention to those areas which still have negative consequences of the pandemic. We're so close to the finish line, and it's important that we get everyone over. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party can support the bill here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130719	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we thank you. We still gotta get out of here. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130735	Thank you. Last year, the Left, together with the government and several other parties, concluded a broad agreement on a summer and business package for among others. self-employed. Again this year, Parliament's parties have negotiated a summer package and we are pleased that this bill extends the possibility for self-employed people to be able to receive daily allowances. We in the Left welcome the fact that the scheme within the Ministry of Business and Industry also includes a compensation scheme for, among other things: self-employed and freelancers. We in the Left have fought hard to ensure that self-employed people are also remembered in the compensation scheme, and the proposal today is a continuation of the measures that we have fought for. That is why the Left strongly supports the idea that self-employed people, who have not so far been insured in cashiers, will also be able to receive unemployment benefit in this exceptional situation in the future. Against this background, I must inform you that the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130840	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no brief comments. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615130859	Thank you for that, President. This bill is part of the reopening plan, which has been negotiated in the Ministry of Industry. Unfortunately, once again, it is the Employment Committee and the Employment rapporteurs who must have the legislation, and I would once again criticise the fact that we are not involved in the reopening negotiations where legislation is being put in place in the field of employment. I think it is a little too bad, but leave it at that, because we agree on what is going on and we also talk in the parties. However, this means that self-employed persons who have received compensation during the last 3 months before the reopening can receive daily allowances in July, August and September 2021 if they close temporarily and cease their independent businesses. There are still some who have little trouble getting started, so how many will take advantage of it is, of course, hard to say. It is also the case that in July they have the opportunity to join the benefit system, even if they have not previously had membership, and that is also a good thing so that they can be helped in this way. In addition, this is also the extension of the temporary scheme which gives employees an increased risk of serious illness with covid-19 sickness benefit. The scheme shall be extended until 31 August 2021 and the same shall apply to employees who are related to persons at increased risk. It shall enter into force on 1 July 2021. What matters here, then, is that hopefully, and we believe that, is where we can start shutting down all aid packages and get back on the labour market, and we can only look forward to that. With the relaxations that have taken place here in the last debate, we are on the right track. So, of course, we hope and believe that when we get further in the autumn, we will be there where there are no real restrictions again, and we are all looking forward to that. The Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131132	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131153	A secure benefit system, including a sickness benefit system, is a key pillar of the labour market, and the corona crisis has made it even clearer. There are, after all, some gaps in which people risk falling into, but with this law we are throwing some of those gaps. Self-employed persons who have not previously been insured now have an extraordinary opportunity to become part of the cashier's system, with their associated financial security, after all. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131229	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131245	Thank you, President. Yesterday was an almost entirely touching day, when all of us could, to a greater or lesser extent, throw away the muzzle and find the smiles again. And in day care institutions and schools, all these zonings that have been used to were removed and broken up, at least in my children's institutions. And in this way, in a great many areas, we are going the right way, including when we look at the economy and unemployment. There are just some groups that still need us to keep our hands under, and that acts among other things. on the self-employed, where this bill translates an agreement from the month of May and among other things. grants easier access to cash benefits for self-employed persons. At the same time, this bill is also about sickness benefits, and with the bill we extend it for those who are at increased risk of having a serious illness if they and their relatives are infected with covid-19. Radical Left backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131354	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131409	Thank you so much. We have been looking forward to this bill in the Enhedslisten because we are doing something that we think is really important, and it is that we ensure that more of the self-employed who get into trouble are able to get a safety net under them. If it was up to us, this shouldn't just be temporary. It is, in fact, discrimination that we see taking place by self-employed people that, despite being a member of an unemployment insurance fund, they cannot actually be caught by the safety net. And frankly, I think that is too bad and something that we should be much better at dealing with. That is why I also hope that the various measures we have taken temporarily for self-employed people can help lay some stones on the road, so that we can actually make sure that we do something that helps. When you look at studies of who is most benefiting from the business policy we have in Denmark, it is in fact mainly the large companies, despite the fact that in our society we have far more small businesses. And it's not gonna last. But now I'm not going to sound too bitter either. It's a good thing this is going to happen. We just think it could be really good that it could be lasting. In addition, there is something that has also been very important to us in the agreement that we have had to make, and it is about the help package for those who are at increased risk from covid-19 infection and their relatives going to continue. When you hear the news, you can quickly get the impression that everyone in the risk groups has been vaccinated, and that is not the case. And I know that there are also many of my peers who stand to be vaccinated at the end, who are at risk of becoming seriously ill and risk dying if they are infected with covid-19. That is why it has been very important for us to ensure, of course, that the aid package for them continues and that we all keep each other safe. It is fantastic that we can start to open up society more and more, but it is important that we do not forget those who are still at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131625	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131638	Thank you, President. The proposal contains measures that are part of the summer and business package • an agreement that we in the Conservative People's Party naturally support. An outstretched hand for the self-employed is, in particular, an element of the agreement for which we have fought hard, and that is why we are particularly pleased with that part of the agreement. We also insist that it is a good idea to provide short time horizons for corona-related interventions right now, as the increase in vaccines and the fall in infection rates means that we can look slowly, but responsibly, towards the normalisation of our society. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131713	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131717	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech from the Conservatives. I think it is a good thing that we agree in this area that we can strengthen the safety net for the self-employed. I wonder why we were not given the opportunity to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to secure this very thing for the self-employed, because we in the Enhedslist had looked forward to voting in favour of it. This has long been part of our policy. In fact, I also thought I heard a number of people who indicated that they would vote in favour of it. So I just wanted to know why it was chosen to draw it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131754	I have to say that I am not the one who is usually the rapporteur in this area, so I simply cannot answer that from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131801	Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131802	It's okay. Then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur will not pass the message on to the relevant rapporteur, and then perhaps it is an invitation to discuss what we are now doing to ensure that these are not just temporary, hand-held solutions, but that we actually have a society that will, in fact, also strengthen the security and security of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131824-2	I very much agree with that. Yeah, I'd like to take it with me. And as independent entrepreneurs who have also started a few times, I have to say that this is something that is very much needed if we are to remain an entrepreneurial society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131841	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131851	Thank you. Yes, there are major legislative proposals that, you might say, affect the lives of a lot of people, and then there are smaller legislative proposals. And this probably belongs in the category of those who are smaller. I think I talked it together to about 130 people, which is estimated to be affected by this. That is why it may be really, really important for those who will then be happy about what the draft law says, namely that it is with considerable uncertainty, precisely because people who have been assessed to be in the risk groups of their own doctor have been offered the vaccines. Therefore, it was one of the things I wondered: how many will there be left in the group of those who have still not received the vaccine? They would have belonged to the groups where doctors had said they could have received the vaccine. So there you may have to take it up with your own GP if they haven't gotten it. But there are so few people that it makes sense just to help them through the last stretch of the road, so we can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615131954	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we can now welcome the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132011	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the way the bill has been dealt with here today. As several speakers have said, society is opening up, and there is finally the prospect of a much more common everyday life for the vast majority of Danes. Nevertheless, we are now also standing here and having to deal urgently with a legislative proposal that must hold hands under self-employed and vulnerable groups. The draft law follows, as several have also mentioned, from the framework agreement on a summer and business package and the phasing out of aid packages which the government and a broad majority of Parliament's parties concluded on 19 May. For while most compensation schemes and aid packages are due to expire soon, unfortunately, there are still sectors in society which have been harder hit by decommissioning than others and which, at the same time, also look into slower normalisation. Therefore, specific and targeted action is needed for self-employed people whose compensation schemes expire until the summer. This applies, among other things, to: the groups who, under the applicable rules, are not entitled to benefit but nevertheless have a dependent need. There are also still employees in the risk group who will need to be able to stay home from work while reopening. For although the vast majority of the group will be vaccinated, there can be e.g. are still people who are at risk or who, for various reasons, have not been vaccinated, and, of course, we must continue to keep our hands on them. With the bill we are dealing with today, we are introducing two initiatives that give the self-employed, who are or have been on a temporary compensation scheme, more flexible means of obtaining daily allowances. Firstly, we give self-employed people an extraordinary opportunity to join an unemployment insurance fund in July 2021 and be entitled to benefit from the first day. However, this presupposes that they pay back 1 year's membership in time and undertake to pay 1 year's membership forward in time to the cashier. Second, the self-employed will be given the opportunity to temporarily cease operating their self-employed activities in July, August and September 2021 and to be entitled to a daily allowance. With these two initiatives, we will ensure that the self-employed are not completely without income when we phase out the compensation schemes. In addition, the draft law extends the scheme on entitlement to sickness benefit for people at increased risk from covid-19 infection, which we all helped to introduce in the spring of 2020. The scheme will be extended until 31 August 2021 and will, of course, also cover employees who are related to the risk group. I have no doubt that with these measures we will create greater security for the self-employed and the particularly vulnerable risk group over the summer, and I look forward, of course, to the further examination of the bill. I would like to take this opportunity to thank once again the broad majority of parties in the Danish Parliament who are behind the agreement that the proposal is helping to implement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132312	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief comments. After a little cleaning, we can move on. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132335	The negotiations have been opened. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132338	Fortunately, the reduction of unemployment in Denmark on top of the corona crisis is going very well. We have now reached a level that is recognizable with what we had before the corona crisis, and I think that somewhere you can only welcome that. However, we also need to recognise that the long-term unemployed group is growing and the number of long-term unemployment benefit recipients has increased by more than 15,500 over the period from February 2020 to March 2021. We also know that the longer one is away from the labour market, the further away from the labour market one also comes. For some, it's just harder to get back. This applies, for example, to seniors and unskilled people. That is why, on 28 May, a majority of Parliament's parties concluded what I think is a good and necessary agreement on a number of initiatives aimed at the long-term unemployed during the corona crisis. Overall, it became a wide range of initiatives, which overall ran up in approx. 160 million kr. As part of that agreement, we agreed to target some efforts towards the unemployed who have reached 50 years. Personally, I don't think it sounds so violent with over 50 years, but it's so different. But it is particularly in that target group that more people are being pushed outside the labour market, and this is despite the fact that these are typically people who have a lot of experience and who still have many good years left in the labour market. One of the initiatives covers a special wage subsidy for longterm unemployed seniors. That is also the part of the agreement that we have to deal with today. With the agreement, we have set aside 23.6 million. kr. to establish a new temporary scheme to run in 2021 and 2022. The scheme increases the wage subsidy by DKK 20. In the case of private and public enterprises employing the longterm unemployed aged 50 or over in a wage subsidy job. We hope and believe that this will help to increase the incentives for companies to hire long-term unemployed seniors so that they can get into line with wage support jobs, where they can both acquire new skills, experience and contacts at a specific workplace. For us, it is unspeakably important that we get everyone across the finish line. It is not only for the benefit of the individual, but also for the benefit of the whole of society, because there are no good explanations as to why we should let skilled and healthy citizens watch from the sidelines, while the rest of society is moving forward from the grip of the Corona crisis. That is why I am very pleased with the agreement we reached at the end of May, and I welcome the fact that hopefully we will be able to speed up the system of increased wage subsidies for long-term unemployed seniors so that the unemployed can already benefit from it per year. September 1st this year. That is why, of course, we in the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132633	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132648	Thank you. The draft law, which is part of the implementation of the agreement on measures aimed at the longterm unemployed during the Corona crisis, of which the Left is a part, has many good tactics in it. The Left supports that we can make use of, among other things. The training scheme for new graduates and, at the same time, strengthen the fight against longterm unemployment with a number of initiatives designed to improve the opportunities for reintegration into the labour market through skills and enterprise-oriented measures, including: work experience. For the Left, it has also been crucial in the agreement we concluded with each other that the job centres, together with private actors, can also seek the pools we have set aside, so that we make use of all the good forces, both cashiers, job centres and private actors, to get as many long-term unemployed as possible into jobs as possible as soon as possible. At the same time, we in the Left would also like to see even more private wage subsidies started. After all, it is one of the most effective measures in employment policy and leads to job vacancies. That is why we in the Left support the draft law as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132806	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615132824	Thank you for that, President. In the context of active employment efforts, we have just been involved in reaching an agreement on aid to the longterm unemployed. It is a particularly vulnerable group, and after the corona crisis it has not improved. Some have gone even further as unemployed, and therefore more action is needed to help the long-term unemployed back into the labour market, especially those over 50 years old, the seniors. They have a little harder on it, especially when they have been away from the labour market. Today we have a wage subsidy scheme in which the employer can receive subsidies when they hire a vacant senior, and with the agreement here you increase the benefit that the employer can get by DKK 20. It's an hour. We believe that this will help even more seniors to get into employment. We should then also bear in mind that it should not be a sleeping pillow. It should not be the case that this is the first thing that the job centres offer to the employer. After all, it must be a job on normal terms, which must first and foremost be wagered on them. Wage subsidies exist when you cannot get a normal job; then you have the opportunity to provide wage subsidies. So here we are improving the possibilities for seniors over 50 years of age. They can get an extra wage subsidy in order to get a foothold on the labour market again, and we believe that that is a good thing. It will be granted during the period from 1 September 2021 to 31 December 2022, and this will, of course, help ensure, as appropriate, that there are more seniors who can enter the labour market and also gain a foothold again, even if they have been unemployed for some time. The Danish People's Party naturally supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133038	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133057	Everything is suggesting that not only is the economy going well right now, but that it will also do so in the immediate future. This is fantastic, but so there are still many people with a weaker foothold in the labour market, and especially long-term unemployed seniors have obvious challenges. With this bill you're going to give 160 million. kr. I am particularly pleased that the regional training pools are being filled up so that they can get up to speed. It is simply documented that skilled and unskilled people in particular benefit greatly from this effort. And while employees are taking training, it can be opened up to get more unemployed people started in the job openings that then arise. SF sees great opportunities in expanding the use of job rotation. The economy is a good thing, but it's only really good when everyone gets to work, including the seniors. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133209	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133227	Thank you very much, President. Fortunately, as I mentioned in my speech on the previous legislative proposal, there are many things that go the right way, including when we look at the economy and also the number of people in employment. But when we look at the long-term unemployed, history is different, and especially when we look at the group over 50, we see that there is a lot of long-term unemployed. We like to call them seniors. I have done the same myself, but I have also been rebuked, because people over 50 years of age may not be called seniors. These are people who are fresh and ready to do their job. But since this bill specifically goes in and helps and provides a wage subsidy for the long-term unemployed over 50 years, it is because the statistics show that it is precisely those who are most affected, and that is why we in the Radical Left are also pleased to be able to participate in the agreement which gives this particular opportunity to people over 50 years of age. This element is part of a larger agreement that the Radical Left is part of, where we also focus on young graduates, who also need to get a proper foothold in the labour market, and where, among other things, we are. strengthens the training scheme. So, in general terms, I can say that the Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133350	There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133404	After all, we are faced with a major and, in fact, somewhat extraordinary problem with a very large hump of longterm unemployed people who find it difficult to find work. There is a particular reason for this, namely the corona closures. They made it considerably more difficult for more loose employees to find work over the last year and a half. This, of course, leads to long-term unemployment. Therefore, a special scheme for 50+-year-olds, which makes it easier for them to find a job with wage subsidies, is very positive. I would like to say, however, that the positive thing about jobs with wage subsidies is that private people receive collective pay. That's nice. The negative is that the hours you work do not count for benefit. Then there's the public. The funny thing is that the increased subsidy in the public jobs with wage subsidies just means that the hourly rate for the wage subsidy job is reduced accordingly, but okay, so of course there is an opportunity to sneak a little more around the hallways and try to talk to a more ordinary job or otherwise spend time on real job search. It should be remembered that the purpose of the wage subsidy is to introduce in the course of the process a progression which places particular emphasis on training and, where appropriate, rehabilitation of professional, social or linguistic skills which are either lacking or which can be regained or rediscovered. That's the important part of it. Moreover, there are also provisions in relation to a job with wage subsidies which ensure that it is not the case that, in that sense, you go in and take an ordinary job. There must be a fair relationship between ordinary employees and those who become employed in a job with wage subsidies. All in all, this is a scheme that we are trying to achieve, because we do not know how it works, but we look forward to getting an assessment of it when the past is completed by the end of 2022. So Enhedslisten votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133629	Thank you, President. In the Conservative People's Party, we always believe in enterprise-oriented action. We have an industry that would very much like to contribute and take responsibility for our citizens who have to return to the labour market, and that is whether it is about them closest to the labour market or about the citizens who are the longest off the labour market. One of the things that corona brought with it was that the unemployment rate increased, and a large proportion of those who became unemployed last year are still not in jobs. We must take responsibility for this, and we must make extraordinary efforts to bring them back into the labour market. It is good for the economy, it is good for the business world, and it is above all good for themselves. There are industries screaming for labour and we still need 50+ year olds in our labour market. With the model here, we are giving companies and employers a greater incentive to take responsibility and employ people who are currently outside the labour market. We must, of course, back that up. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133721	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133733	Thank you. Generally speaking, I'm having a little trouble with these pay supplements. This is a wrong way of pursuing employment policy. I would rather lower the tax on businessmen and ensure that more progress was made in society, so that some labour was sought instead of taking people's money and then feeding them with the same money. We think that is the wrong way to go. We are, of course, in an extraordinary situation with corona, but perhaps the Minister, when he comes up here in a moment, can say how many this is really going to affect, because I didn't think I could see how many you expected it would benefit and how many it would move. Maybe it's just me who didn't just see it, but I didn't think I could find it when I was looking for it. In any case, we would have liked to have a look at that. It's not that big an amount. It's 30 million. kr. I didn't think I could find that number when I was looking for it. These are the questions we have before we take a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133837	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615133854	I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs for the consideration of this bill. As everyone has said, the draft law is part of the implementation of the agreement concluded by a large number of parties, targeted the long-term unemployed during the Corona crisis. It was concluded on 28 May 2021 by the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party and the Alternative. With the bill, we will introduce a new temporary scheme in 2021 and 2022, where both private and public companies will receive a specially increased salary subsidy of DKK 20. extra per hour if they employ the long-term unemployed who have reached the age of 50. The additional grant provides companies with an increased incentive to hire long-term unemployed seniors in wage subsidies, and wage subsidy employment can help long-term seniors to strengthen both their links with the labour market and their networks at a specific workplace. When we create a special wage subsidy scheme for long-term unemployed seniors, it is important that we implement the scheme within the framework of the EU's State aid rules. We have therefore been in contact with the European Commission and the Commission's assessment is that this is a general objective scheme that falls outside the concept of State aid in the TFEU. Therefore, there is no State aid within the meaning of Union law. However, it is important for me to emphasise that this is an assessment and not a final decision. It is therefore not binding in any future assessment of the European Commission. During the corona crisis, we have seen an increase in the number of long-term unemployed, a rise which has only occurred among benefit recipients and where it has particularly hit the unskilled and seniors. As Denmark reopens this spring, we can already see that the labour market is back on track and that, fortunately, unemployment is falling sharply. These are improvements which we expect will also be reflected in longterm unemployment figures. Having said that, it is incredibly important that we get everyone back in either jobs or education, because we know that this has a major impact on the individual, the longer you are stuck in unemployment. The Corona crisis has affected all of us, and it has had consequences over which we ourselves are not masters. One of the consequences is the increase in longterm unemployment for the senior group. I therefore believe that targeted measures such as the legislative proposal we are discussing today are important so that we can help those groups of long-term unemployed who we know can have more difficulty than others by finding a foothold in the labour market again. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134134	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134137	Now the Minister is excused because he just had a conversation while I was on the platform. I put a question to the Minister about how many people are expected to be moved into permanent employment with this, because I do not think I can see that in the draft law. I mean, what are the consequences of the 30 million or so? kr., you use? There must be some consequence in relation to how many people you think you move into permanent employment when we spend tax dollars on it and I don't think I could see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134204	I think it may be difficult to estimate the exact number, but it is clear that we can of course provide a written answer to it. And that also depends entirely on the use of the scheme. We have a hope that this will be able to help many long-term unemployed seniors who may need an extra hand to enter the labour market in this situation, thereby giving companies an extra incentive not to sort out the 55-year-olds, whom we know there is a history of whether it is a recession or a boom, with an extra subsidy from the state in the back. However, we would very much like to provide a written reply on the precise estimate of the number of people we hope can be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134256	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134257	That would be a very good thing, because the question is whether we can find ourselves in a situation where we can just sort out the 49-year-olds, because companies can get subsidies for the 50-year-olds, but not for the 49-year-olds, and then it is the 49-year-olds who are then left with the monkey. So I would like to look a little at how to assess it overall; also whether one considers that it has an impact on e.g. the 45-50-year-olds who will then be sorted out for this reason. Then I also assume that when you have set aside an amount for it, you have to have an expectation of what that amount will result in. So I would like that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134326	That's the last one, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is absolutely right, and of course we must ensure that this is done to the rapporteur. In relation to the other, the rapporteur may be right. What we know, however, even in times of recession, is that there is a paradoxical situation. The senior think tank also pointed out this, namely that there are a great many companies looking for labour on the one hand and shouting for labour on the other, but at the same time they tend to sort out seniors in the door or opt out of the job application pool. And there we hope in this situation, which is temporary, that this extra wage subsidy can help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134408	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210615134420	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 24 June, at 3 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
