ParlaMint-DK_20211012130004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Mette Abildgaard (KF), Jane Heitmann (V), Karina Adsbøl (DF), Mette Thiesen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Jens Roh (KD): Motion for a resolution No. Β 6 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the correct calculation of transfer prices to non-municipal care establishments). Eva Flyvholm (EL), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Martin Lidegaard (RV) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 7 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on qualified majority voting in the event of Danish participation in wars). Ellen Trane Nørby (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 8 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the freedom of establishment for private carers) and motion for a resolution No. B 9 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on action against bullying). Halime Oguz (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 11 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution extending the system of land purchase loans to build general housing in municipalities with high land prices). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130109	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130234	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130304	Thank you for the floor. We have taken a number of important steps across the Danish Parliament's parties to get Danish companies and jobs well through the corona crisis. Today, we are taking another important and necessary step by offering a hand-out to companies operating in industries that have been exceptionally hard hit by the corona crisis. It is an important priority for the Social Democratic Party that our companies get through the Corona crisis well, which is why I am very pleased to be here today in order to implement the important agreement on the phasing-out of fiscal liquidity measures adopted by a broad majority of Parliament's parties on 9 September. The bill consists of three parts. In all its simplicity, it is proposed to postpone the repayment deadline for VAT loans due on 1 November 2021 and 1 February 2022 by 2 and 5 months respectively. This means that instead they will not have to be repaid until 1 April 2022. In this way, we give companies time to settle existing debts and to set up a comprehensive repayment scheme with the tax administration. Secondly, it is proposed to extend the maximum duration of payment arrangements in the tax account from 12 to 24 months for a temporary period. This means that companies that have difficulty in paying the loans will have the opportunity to level out payments. In addition, we now know the need for a higher limit on the credit balance of the tax account. It is proposed to reduce this limit from 100 billion. kr. to 350 million kr. from 1 February 2022 onwards. In this way, we also limit the possibility of accidental use. In the Social Democratic Party, as I said, we believe that it is important to continue to ensure that the companies that have been most affected by the Corona crisis get out well on the other hand, and this bill contributes to that. Social democracy therefore naturally supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130531	Thank you. As the Social Democrat rapporteur has already said, this is the last in the series of aid packages we have made together through the coronatide. Because, as we look at it, when it is that we place some burdens on the Danish business community, we must also help to keep our hands on the Danish business community. We are therefore pleased that we can now tie a loop on this and hopefully close it off properly so that we can help the Danish companies move forward and not go to the terrible crisis we have had. The concrete elements have already been mentioned by the Social Democrats' tax rapporteur, so I will not go into them in detail, but I must say that we would, of course, have liked to see us stretch it a little longer, but we recognise that we have been accommodated. We think we have landed it in a very good place, but we will of course still be watching what time brings forward, because of course we are worried about how things are going. But basically we are satisfied that here we can tie a loop on it and end by still holding our hands under those companies that have not yet come all the way up in gear. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130642	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130650	After all, this bill is about a more relaxed phasing out of these so-called corona loans. The background is a political agreement of which the Danish People's Party is a part, so I can therefore say that we support the proposal. We think it is quite reasonable that we should give a good, relaxed way of getting out of the loans that have been made, because it does, after all, make it best to have more companies survive this crisis that we have been through. That is not to say that everyone is going through, because I think we also have to recognise that there will be some who are going to close anyway. Just as if you hadn't had a corona crisis, there were companies that would have closed, so some might have been kept artificially alive too. However, I believe that with the delay in repayment and the deadline in which payments can be made, significantly longer, from 12 to 24 months, there will be more survivors, and that would be quite positive. So the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130747	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to SF and Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012130802	It has certainly been hard to run a small business in the last year and a half with restrictions, closures and huge fluctuations in revenue. That is why we in the SF are also pleased that we have together been ready with a safety net for those companies that have had difficulty getting the ends to meet, and have offered interest-free loans to companies and have postponed the VAT payment. The first of the loans are due to expire shortly. This means that the smaller companies, which may hardly have got started again, are in danger of getting into trouble, and that is why we in the SF also proposed that they should have an extension, and we are pleased that a broad majority in the Folketing sees it that way. Therefore, we are now giving them a longer period of time to repay their loans so that they get a chance to get on their feet before they have to pay off to the state. It is clear that we cannot continue to extend the payment deadline forever; it would be neither fair to taxpayers nor to companies which may have just refrained from taking a loan because of the prospect of a short payment period. But by giving companies a little more space, we avoid sending them directly into the arms of a financial sector that has said in advance that they will only help solid companies, and they are often the ones who do not need the most help. We also think it would be foolish to risk a large number of companies going bankrupt and that we would not be able to get the money back into the treasury either. Finally, that would not be fair either. A small business owner should not be penalised by towering interest rates because we have been in a pandemic and the banks should not be gilded because they have paid 600 billion. kr. in liquidity available by community money. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131000	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Olldag Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131009	Thank you very much, President. We in the Radical Left, of course, are also very happy with this bill, and we really want to thank all the parties of the Folketing for making this agreement together initially, but also to get out of it together in a good and proper way. I think the process has been exemplary in that the government made a move which we saw in the various parties had some different input to, and that we then landed it in a very good place, where we still hold our hands under some of the most vulnerable industries, which will have their deadline postponed until April, while not artificially holding some companies in life, which might not be able to stand anyway. We do all of this without being too expensive for Danish taxpayers. So, of course, we also hope that we have it quite correctly, and we will, of course, keep an eye on how things are going over the coming months. All in all, however, the Radical Left naturally supports the proposal with pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131113	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is part of the agreement that is behind this bill, just as we have been in other aid packages. We must be honest that, to some extent, we are acting blindly in the sense that it is difficult to assess what the need is. It's also hard to estimate what the effect of this is going to be, but we've stretched out a safety net by extending these corona loans, and it supports Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131136	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131147	The time limits for payment to tax are extended. We basically think this is a good thing. I cannot help but point out that one of the problems these companies are facing out there is a shortage of labour. If we don't address this into the Parliamentary Chamber, there's gonna be a bigger share of these companies that can't pay back this money. So things are connected, which is why we also have a bottom-up task in this Parliament to address the acute shortage of labour. For some of the trades, some of the sectors where there is the greatest shortage of labour, are also some of the trades and industries most affected by these closures, namely hotels, restaurants and other activities. There we simply have to ensure that they can get the labour they need, otherwise the bill will be higher at the other end. Then there will be more companies that cannot pay back this money and that must go bankrupt, leaving a bill with taxpayers. So I also hope that the Folketing is aware that these things are connected. We're gonna have to address the job offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131301	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it's sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131313	Thank you. I just want to say that there is nothing more right to be repeated. So we agree with what has been said here from the platform and agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131322	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131335	We also agree with the agreement. Many good things have been said that I had time to hear from my office and then the legal proceedings went very fast! We also think that a sensible compromise has been found. We are pleased that we have found a flexible system here with repayment; we need to find a balance between helping the companies that are in trouble, but of course the state should not be a bank for an infinitely long time and should not offer any terms that make it a bank. So the balance here is good. The crisis is not over, I would like to point out. Travel restrictions have still been removed, which means that there are still businesses around which have problems because of the epidemic management and the demands that society has continued to impose on business. I think we should remember that, because it is easy now to forget that there are still companies out there that are having a difficult time, but it is there, and I hope that this will continue to be the focus of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131444	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012131454	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much for the great support for the bill. I shall of course first sign that all the parties present here today, and therefore all the parties in the Folketing, have now again agreed on a very, very large agreement of even great importance to our companies and our employees, an agreement which will, of course, be in an extraordinary situation, and I shall come back to that. In addition, I also think I would like to thank the Danish Parliament and the Danish Parliament's parties for the fact that it has been possible to deal with these initiatives in what we in this House call an urgent process. The government, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, has been working together on this subject, and it has been holding hands under Danish companies and employees for a very difficult time in tax matters. There we have together taken a whole series of decisions which have helped both Danish companies and of course also Danish employees. We've got one of them. deferred payment of A tax by undertakings, labour market contributions, B tax, VAT and also payroll tax. In addition, we have also introduced loan schemes where companies have been able to recover their paid-up A tax, labour market contributions, VAT and payroll tax as an interest-free loan. Overall, these initiatives have strengthened the liquidity of Danish companies by more than 600 billion. kr. Fortunately, after the closures in parts of our economy, there is now progress in the Danish economy. We look into a progress which is the strongest in not only 5 years, 10 years, but 15 years, and we may find it difficult to believe in it after such a violent setback in the Danish economy, but nevertheless it is the reality and the result of the fact that in broad cooperation we have got these relief packages so quickly working in the companies, so that we have been able to alleviate some of the very major problems that the Corona crisis also gave to Danish society. That is why, of course, I am pleased that we have reached a broad political agreement to help those companies that have difficulty in repaying the interest-free loans that have been made available to them. If we look at the specific legislative proposal, it is then proposed to postpone the payment periods for VAT loans due here per year. 1 November 2021, and also that due on 1 February 2022. As I said, the two VAT loans will be deferred until 1 April 2022. In this way, the payment deadlines for approx. 61,000 VAT loans for a total value of just under 21 billion. kr. be postponed for 5 months and also for 2 months respectively. The cancellation of these repayment periods for the loans will then allow companies to settle existing debts to the tax administration, so that until 1 April 2022 the companies will be able to set up a comprehensive repayment scheme with the tax administration for the repayment of these loans, which will then be deferred until April 2022. In addition, it is proposed that the maximum duration of the repayment arrangements for what is known as the tax account should be temporarily extended from the current 12 months to 24 months. More specifically, it will be in the period from 15 March 2022 to 15 April 2022, i.e. the repayment arrangements of up to 24 months could then be set up. This gives companies the opportunity to set up a comprehensive and therefore longer repayment system for, among other things, small and medium-sized enterprises. the VAT loans which will be deferred to 1 April 2022 and also the A-tax loan and which will be repaid in advance by that date, i.e. 1 April 2022. In this way, when we put these loans together and make a longer repayment scheme, companies that have difficulty in repaying the loans or repayments will have better opportunities to do this, and if they make repayment arrangements, they will be set up in the tax account at an interest rate of at present. 0,7 per cent per month. In addition, it is also proposed to reduce the ceiling on a credit balance on the tax account from 100 billion. kr., as it has been, to 350 million. kr. from 1 February 2022 onwards. This is because the actual application of the loan arrangements and also the concrete need for the high ceiling are now known and, at the same time, the reduction of the ceiling will limit the scope for unintended use. In other words, it will be more targeted and thus more up to date with the time we are now entering. Overall, thank you once again for your broad support, thank you for your very good cooperation with the tax rapporteurs, the financial rapporteurs and the business rapporteurs on these proposals. It has been an exceptionally difficult time that Danish industry and Danish employees have been in, but we have shown that together we can find solutions which have thus been able to hold hands under thousands of jobs in a very, very difficult time. So thank you for your support. I shall, of course, look forward to the committee's reading and, as always, we will endeavour to answer any questions that may come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012132047	But there are none of them at this time. That's why we can thank the tax minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012132113	The debate is open. First, it's sir. Orla Hav, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012132122	In L 12, we have noted that the aim of the draft law is to bring about changes in financial legislation. And it can be said that it has almost become a never-ending story that we have to regulate the legislation on the financial sector. Changes have been proposed to ensure up-to-date supervision of the financial sector, which aims to support consumer and investor confidence in financial markets. In addition, the bill also ensures supervision of foreign payment systems, which have a decisive influence on the Danish payment infrastructure. We are in favour of such better supervision, because unfortunately there are examples of breaches of the rules governing the financial sector. The supervision of payment systems is central, because payment of wages and pensions and payment for the purchase of goods and the payment of bills are payments that must be made without any significant delay, but it must also be done in a proper and regular manner. A society is entirely dependent on organized conditions when it comes to financial arrangements. This is crucial to the basic trust in the foundations of society. The bill also proposes to adjust the model for the designation of systemically important financial institutions in Denmark. It is, after all, a relatively new concept that we have been given to systemic institutions, and it is good that we are calling for greater transparency on what are the criteria for financial institutions to be identified as systemically important. And then it is important that, not least at a time when we are laying the groundwork for the green transition, a good basis for sustainable economic investment and activities should also be created, and this should then be done within the EU framework, after which economic operators will be able to make it easier to raise capital for environmentally sustainable activities. Then we also take note of the fact that the ATP is wearing a little more harness compared to the EU regulations. We have no problem with that. The last exciting part of the bill is that it will be possible for projects to obtain crowdfunding funds without having to use a bank license. Our hope is, of course, that with the positive position Denmark has as a green forerunner, this will make it easier for the project makers and the companies who want to invest in green conversion and raise capital for that conversion. So, on the whole, we are positive about the legislative proposal and will go positively into the legislative process that is coming, about it in committee work and subsequently in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012132458	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012132510	Thank you for the floor. Financial regulation is important. This is important for consumers, for investors and for companies, which is why it is a rather comprehensive legislative proposal that we have today, with no less than 24 different elements. Basically, the task is to ensure that supervision of the financial sector is up-to-date and that the legislation is understandable and easy to find around. One can always discuss whether it will be easier with this round, but the starting point is that there does not seem to be any over-implementation of EU legislation. That is something we are always very aware of. We think it is important that it becomes more attractive to set up and operate in Denmark, and therefore we welcome the fact that the bill makes it a little easier to raise capital through crowdfunding. Hopefully, this can help reverse a tedious trend towards too few start-ups and Danish start-ups moving abroad. One should then just remember to look at the full picture of government policy, for the kindness of these entrepreneurs is, of course, in stark contrast to the fact that the government has a proposal to raise the share tax at the same time. So it would be nice if the nice words the government says in relation to entrepreneurship in this context were also followed by action elsewhere. The proposal also ensures that it is the FSA that has been designated as the competent authority to supervise the taxonomy regulation. The Taksonomy Regulation provides a common basis for assessing sustainable investment, and it is an important tool to combat so-called greenwashing and to ensure that companies have a clear responsibility for their investments, but also to ensure that, as an investor, you can be sure that you invest in something called green, it is also genuine green. In fact, it is also something that the Members of the Left in the European Parliament attached great importance to when the matter was in Parliament. Then I would also like to note that the proposal adjusts the requirements for system failures in financial institutions. After all, it is important that we have very clear legislation, because systemically important financial institutions are of great importance to the Danish economy and to ensure a robust financial system. So they are very, very crucial to financial stability in Denmark. I must say, then, that some of the changes are a bit technical, so whether they are really adjustments and updates or real austerity that can impose additional costs is at least a clue that I and the Left will follow during the committee work on the legislative proposal. As I said, it is important that there is confidence in the financial sector. It is important to make it attractive to invest and to have the assurance that our financial system will work, even if there are shocks to the economy, so that we do not become vulnerable in the event of future crises; then the financial sector must be so robust that it can stand on its own feet. That is why we are fundamentally very positive about the draft law. Then I have promised to greet the Radical Left and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012132837	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was not a short comment, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012132851	As the rapporteur of the Left said, this bill contains some things that may smell a little bit of each other, but which, after all, are not so closely related that it does anything. After all, 24 different sub-elements are also a nonsense to put into the same draft This is, of course, a draft law which, in the view of the Danish People's Party, will form a good synergy far along the way. It is important that there are measurable qualities behind the way we support our financial markets. There must be a high degree of investor confidence, and if there is not, the Danish market will quickly come under pressure, and it will be unfavorable for consumers, but certainly also for all Danish and foreign investors who have places where they want to invest their capital. After all, Denmark has proved to be a sensible place for many years with stability and quiet working conditions, and this is even so, despite the fact that at the same time we have also carried out a large number of legislative initiatives on money laundering and all sorts of other things, SIFI and all the other things that we as rapporteurs have all been involved in. These things are relatively deeply rooted in this bill, and those parts of it are also favorable to the Danish People's Party. We think it is a good thing that the draft law guarantees Danish supervision of foreign payment systems when, for example, it does so. are foreign payment systems, which are also responsible for the payment of wages and pensions, the purchase and sale of goods and the payment of bills, etc. It actually makes sense. Where the Danish People's Party has its reservations about this bill is in relation to the taxonomy regulation rules on financial products in Denmark, and already where you have to pronounce it, you can get into trouble. But if you read the Minister's description of what we have to decide as one of these 24 parts, then it is a taxonomy regulation that aims to create uniform criteria for environmentally sustainable economic activities in the European Union, after which traders will get easier to raise capital for environmentally sustainable activities already there you start to forget to breathe, but so, I fully agree that it has to be difficult when it is difficult. Far along the way, we in the Danish People's Party agree that, of course, there must be a great deal of enlightenment, also in relation to investing in things, based on environmental, social and management sensations, but we are a little afraid that this is going to do something a little too long-haired, more than it really should be, and we also fear that it is really a costly paper tiger that has been brought to life. In any case, we would like the Minister of Industry to clarify this, including to the Committee on Industry, Research and Technology, which is what we can look forward to from new burdens on Danish companies. I fully understand that many of the companies desperately want foreign investor capital and everything else, but that is to say, it screams a little somewhere, as you cannot say from here, if you have to prove yourself both from a to z. That is why we would like the Minister of Industry to give some answers to what is specifically in this taxonomy regulation in relation to the costs of Danish companies. If you put some new regulatory burdens on them, I think you should be honest about it too. The last point I would like to mention is that of crowdfunding, where it has proven that if you want to receive deposits and other funds from the public without a bank licence, it has not been possible until now, and if this bill, as we understand it, will enable you to do so without a bank licence being attached at the same time, it will make it easier to receive crowdfunding on different platforms, and that welcomes the Danish People's Party. So we cannot support the proposal here at first reading, but we look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012133321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we can therefore move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012133337	In SF we think there are a number of very good points in this pile proposal, which is something we often have in the Ministry of Business. It may not be any different... we might not appreciate being called 24 times in the hall for this one bill. The problem is, on the other hand, that it is very, very complicated material, and I would say at least that a Master's degree does not go far enough here, at least not for me, so we need a technical review of at least parts of the elements from our side. Some of what we like, however, and about which I can say something already now, is this with a new model for SIFI designation. It is only good to keep getting smarter when the financial institutions we have in Denmark are going to have the SIFI preacher. In fact, we in the SF want to have a fundamental discussion about the fact that we have SIFI banks in Denmark, because it is also a label that gives you some advantages, such as smaller banks. We are not going to have access to cheaper capital on international markets, and we are going to have a de facto State guarantee on our backs. Some of the major discussions we had after the financial crisis were about whether we should have banks that were too big to fail, as I call it. But we must take that discussion at a different time. Unlike the Danish People's Party, we think it is good that the FSA should have this oversight of the taxonomy regulation. We also think it's good to have these ESG factors in the environmental and social fields, but we need to get a little deeper on the question of some of these synthetic products that we have here. In other words, we are concerned that we are starting to lose out again on some of the things we would have liked to have tightened up after the financial crisis in relation to financial products, which we find difficult or difficult to understand. And that was one of the main reasons why we got into problems after the financial crisis, at least in the United States, but also at home, namely that we got these hybrid products, these financial products that became so complicated that even those who worked with them every day could not see through them. That is our concern here, so we would like to have a little more knowledge of that before we can say clearly whether we support it. With the other points, we think we are very good and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012133637	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that's why it's now, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012133646	Thank you. Well, this is such a bill, there are a lot of things in it, and it also does that there are elements that we think are good and that there are elements that we think are bad. These collective laws are very clever, but it does so precisely that our overall position on the bill will bear the hallmark of the fact that there will be some things in what we think are problematic. We must then consider in the committee's work whether to divide it up or what to do. We think it is good, for example, that the draft law will include more indicators when financial institutions are identified as SIFIs. But we have some doubts as to whether throwing out a wider network means capturing more of them in different classes. Does this mean that there are existing SIFIs that will move out, or what does that mean? We simply have some questions about what this will mean more specifically in relation to Danish financial institutions. In general terms, we also take the view from the Enhedslisten that the problem with the SIFIs is not only to identify them and to adjust their requirements, but that the political problem is that we have banks that have a State guarantee in their backs and which can therefore outperform smaller banks and that for large banks there is a latent risk to our economy and financial stability, as we do, for example. saw it during the financial crisis. So basically, it is really a question of setting up a financial sector that is more robust in the face of financial crises, which also means splitting the financial supermarkets that we have today into smaller units, as it was before, where some people made insurance, some made mortgages, some made banking, etc. etc., that is, when there were firewalls between ordinary banking and speculative activities. A problematic element of the bill concerns speculative activities, as I would call it. It is a very technical legislative proposal, including here, but as it stands, it is far more difficult for us to reconcile ourselves with the fact that the draft law provides for reducing requirements and lightening burdens on the markets for derivative financial instruments and even promoting trade in these so-called synthetic financial products. And the European Union then justifies the fact that it is a response to the covid-19, that is to say to ensure liquidity in the markets, but if it were just because of the covid-19, if I may say so, then it was something that could be looked at temporarily and not permanently, because we know that increased speculation and increased possibilities of speculation also accumulate risks. So our focus will therefore be on the regulatory regime, but not on the profitability of speculative activities. There we simply think that the draft law goes the wrong way and thus does not contribute to financial stability, but actually does the opposite. In fact, in relation to the taxonomy regulation, we think it is a very fine tool, because it is intended precisely to create a common classification of what can be said to be climate- and environmentally sustainable economic activities, and that is something that everything else will just be a tool for getting the European Union on a better track in terms of climate and the environment. So that will be one of the elements that we think is positive. However, as I said, it is a bit of a mixed country trade where there are things we are against and things we are in favour of. And then we will have to look at the questions we will be asking in committee whether we can further clarify some of the very technical aspects of this. Otherwise, we will have to look at whether or not there should be some kind of division of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012134033	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012134045	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. A 523-page total bill about a little different in the financial sector is always worth splitting up into bits, and at the same time keep your tongue straight in your mouth. There are no immediate problems with the proposed changes to the financial regulation, which also follows various regulations, and it is also good that the FSA is appointed to monitor and ensure compliance with sustainable investments. So this with taxonomy rules on financial products in Denmark and that the ATP is covered by the disclosure regulation, i.e. this with the integration of environmental, social and management issues. It is also fine to adjust the model for the designation of systemically important financial instruments, and it is fine with the supervision of foreign payment systems. However, in the committee's work I need to clarify whether or not there is over-implementation, and if so, what parts, and to estimate possible costs for the industries concerned. The simple fact that there will be less financial burdens simply needs to be more precise. Finally, I have had the pleasure of having been in contact with the Ministry prior to this first reading concerning the fact that in the draft law, among other things. The FSA may intervene if a member of the management of a financial undertaking is charged with criminal proceedings for breach of other relevant legislation that is not criminal law or financial law. Similarly, it is also suggested here that it empowers the FSA to dispose of an employee appointed as a money laundering officer if he is not sufficiently aware of the company's risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. It might sound pretty cool at first. It is not because precisely these parts I find legal certainty extremely questionable: in other words, that the FSA can dismiss the directors of a financial undertaking on the basis of only an indictment that there should be no conviction before the FSA can intervene. This is just not consistent with general principles of legal certainty, including this presumption of innocence in Article 6 (1) of the European Convention on Human Rights. 2. Furthermore, this is an interference in the management rights of companies and, frankly, we do not need to place companies in a legal limbo, but the Ministry has stated that the draft law merely provides for the same addition to other relevant legislation in the corresponding provisions of other financial legislation, including, for example: Act on Real Estate Credit Companies and the Consumer Credit Companies Act. In this way, these laws will provide for the same possibility for the FSA to temporarily require a company to dispose of a member of the management that is fit and property-approved if the member of the management is charged under the criminal law, financial law or other relevant legislation. I am therefore listening to the fact that the draft law represents a alignment of the rules across financial legislation and that the draft law does not alter the fact that the management right lies with companies. I am also listening to the fact that in all decisions involving a loss for a person or a company, there is already the possibility today of bringing a claim for compensation on the basis of a temporary order to dispose of it here with a member of the management, which would be violent for any employee, any member of the management and, of course, the company. I simply need confirmation of all this before Conservatives can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012134413	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012134419	Thank you. Before I went up to the platform, I stood up and looked up at a class that had come into the Parliamentary Chamber and during the debate I could look at their facial expressions, what was going on during this debate. And my esteemed colleague Mr. Jacob Mark also sat there and looked up and thought, "Okay, that's what you'd brought that class in here to hear!" However, this may be important legislation, although it is very technical. It is, of course, an overall piece of legislation on these things, and I think there are some good proposals. And I'd say, given that there are 523 pages, that normally I have no problem falling asleep, but when I had to read all of this, it was really heavy. So I actually welcome the technical review very, very welcome, because some of the things I could easily understand, but there are also some things where I have to say that I simply do not have the necessary competence and knowledge if I do not get the explanation here in depth and get to know exactly what it is like. I've read the hearing answers where there's nothing basically alarming about these things, so the players on the market that this is going to include don't see any red alarm buttons compared to that. So let us try to look at it during the technical review, but immediately I do not see anything that would prevent us in the New Citizens from supporting this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012134536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Your
ParlaMint-DK_20211012134548	Yes, much has been said. I would like to add to Mrs Juul's comment that, in fact, I sincerely believe that there is a risk that management rights will be challenged here, and we will have to look at that. Having said that, however, I must acknowledge with shame or joy that I have actually been part of the creation of both regulations and directives in this area in the European Parliament, so I am an accomplice to the big package. And as you know, I am an ardent federalist and a fervent European supporter, but there is one thing that always annoys me, and that is that these strange words, which we call Brussels English, end up in Danish legislation; there is not one who knows what an SIFI is and a taxonomy what that means? This reminds me of a time when I asked one of my comrades: Peter, do you know what the subsidiarity principle is? And then he said, no, and if I got it, I'd go to the doctor. It's kind of the same problem we're creating here. Now I know that this is perhaps not a legislative proposal aimed at the general public, but at a sector which knows very well what this is all about. But sometimes we could try a little harder to find out if we could make the language of the European Union a more understandable language, because it actually helps to create that common barrier. The thing about when a bank is systemic and when it is not systemic, i.e. that it is important for the economy, if it is such that it, for example, is important for the economy. Going bankrupt is immensely important. I do not share an economic perspective with Mr. Rune Lund, but it is quite right when he says that the fact that banks were made into an all-muligand business, insurance and pension, and all into the same banking business, has made all banks, regardless of size, have to gear their investments quite forcefully. This basically means that if even the local banks come into the risk zone, they pose a risk to society. It may be in relation to a local community, but it can also spread quite widely. That is why I think it is useful and important that there should be some new rules on how we assess systematic banking operations in Denmark. All in all, however, we are in favour of the initiatives that are here. I think that Mrs Mona Juul raises some very important questions, and I also think that, with such a general legal certainty interest, we should listen to the rapporteurs who have been on the floor and asked whether we should not divide this bill into bits. It is very violent, but the Minister can consider this, knowing that much of what is on the table is a bottom-up task. A regulation is, of course, a bottom-up task, quite simply. It is not even a framework law that we get from European cooperation; it must be implemented by letter, and once it has been adopted in the Council and in Parliament, we simply have to implement it. Such are the rules of the game... you can think of what you want. But that may be why, perhaps in the Ministry, it seemed reasonable to pool it. However, we are listening to what the Minister says about these comments, on the basis that we naturally support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012135025	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012135035	Thank you for that and thank you for some good contributions from my good colleagues. I would like to start by saying that it is always a balance, whether we should do 24 legal procedures or whether we should try to bring together something that is, after all, a little related, namely, in the financial field, to do one single legislative procedure. We have chosen to do the last thing here, and sometimes we do so, and it is actually from the point of view of trying to make the time we spend on legal proceedings more efficient. This does not mean that we will not be able to answer all the questions that may come, and if there is a need for technical reviews, possibly on parts of the legislative proposal which I believe Mrs Lisbeth-Bech-Nielsen wanted, we will of course do the same. I didn't expect it to be a wish for such a complex as this either. However, much has been said, and the main purpose of the fact that we are dealing with this bill is that we have to make a number of changes within the complex called financial legislation here in the Kingdom. The idea is that both consumers and those who invest must experience a higher level of protection, and at the same time we must strengthen the supervision of financial actors. This means that, with the bill, among other things. ensure effective supervision and ensure compliance with the new rules on sustainability-related information relating to financial services. The rules must create uniform criteria for environmentally sustainable economic activities in the European Union, and it is essential for the green transition that investors can have confidence in the information that applies, especially in the green and sustainable area, so that they do not get caught investing in something that is an attempt at greenwashing, and that is why it is, as Mr. Jens Rohde says it's really important. Although taxonomy can be a rather strict concept to work with, that is what it is all about, in other words, protecting against greenwashing and ensuring a common understanding of what is really green, also in an investment context. Then we also ensure with the bill a Danish supervision of the foreign payment systems, which are of crucial importance for the Danish payment infrastructure. It is really crucial for Danish citizens and companies that payment systems operate both safely and effectively • it is for example. A prerequisite for us to be able to obtain pay and pensions and for payment for the purchase of goods and payment of goods to be made without delay and without being put back to a time to which we do not wish to return. It is therefore important that we also subject payment systems to Danish supervision and a Danish authorisation requirement. Then there's the whole whistleblower area. Mrs Mona Juul asked whether there are places where we are actually going a little further, and we are actually doing so in the whistleblower area, and it should also be printed in the general remarks. It is to ensure both a high and uniform level of protection for whistleblowers when we look across the financial sector, and therefore what we are proposing here is that we put into force the law to protect whistleblowers, also for financial companies that are not directly covered by that law. It will therefore provide more uniform protection across the financial sector of whistleblowers. Then, as has been mentioned a few times, there is also a new and future-proof model for the designation of the systemically important financial institutions, i.e. the SIFI banks, and this in response to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is the new one here, that we are extending from today to assessing on 3 criteria to assessing on 12 criteria, and in this way we will have an alignment of the way we appoint SIFI institutions with the rest of the European Union. The demands that, when you are SIFI, do not change with what lies here, it was the issue of the burden that was raised in the past, and the assessment I have seen for the time being is that it will probably be the same institutes that will be appointed. Those are the answers to Mr. Rune Lund. Now it was raised in the debate, and that is at least one of the answers we could give here already. It is technical, it serves a good purpose, there are always some parts of what can be further elucidated, and we are very much at your disposal for this because, as I say, we can try to get as far as we can with the written explanations, otherwise both the committee and the rapporteurs will just go ahead, and we will of course do a technical review of what is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012135536	We thank the Minister for Industry. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended and I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012135558	The debate is open. First, it's sir. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012135605	Thank you very much. Social democracy is in favour of the modernisation directive for better consumer protection based on the European Union. We consider it positive to increase consumer protection for children and young people who are an interesting and affordable consumer group, but also a group that can easily be misled. We find a new and tougher fine model that allows a higher level of sanctions to be imposed reasonable. It is positive to ensure increased transparency in online transactions related to the ranking of products in online searches as well as the use of user reviews. Why are these exactly the topics that appear when searching the web by the potential customer? With algorithms it is possible to design treats for the individual possible consumer. We think it is quite natural to lay down stricter regulations in favour of the consumer at a time when more and more digital trading opportunities are emerging. In addition, the draft law provides for the collection of fines for infringements which may harm the collective interests of consumers in at least two other Member States in addition to Denmark. It is proposed that a maximum fine be 4%. of the trader's annual turnover in the countries concerned and 4 million. EUR if there is no information on the operator's turnover. The draft law is also intended to ensure an increase in the level of fines for infringements of the Marketing Act, an adjustment of the fine for infringements of the Marketing Act and an extension of the scope for the application of administrative fines. The Modernisation Directive and the bill that special attention should be paid to commercial practices aimed at children and young people under the age of 18 are very positive. Commercial practices aimed at children and adolescents under the age of 18 shall not be carried out on or through social media profiles belonging to or appearing as belonging to children and adolescents under the age of 15. Commercial practices aimed at children and adolescents under the age of 18 shall not be used by children and adolescents under the age of 15 unless it is part of a natural context to illustrate or display the product, and commercial practices directed at children and young people shall not include mention of, pictures of, or references to products unsuitable for children and young people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012135830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012135844	Thank you. Now we've started with a whole new collection, and it's great to stand on the platform again. Yesterday, when I wrote my speech, I was such a really uplifted Left Member who had had a fantastic national meeting, so I tried to be so positive when I wrote this speech. I was really trying to do that. But I think the minister would rather have talked to me yesterday rather than today, because sometimes it's just smartest to sleep on things. It just is. It makes you become a little bit more, yes, what is the word, realistic perhaps. But I can start by reading the beginning of my speech, because it sounds very positive, and then the Minister can take it with him, and then we can take the rest afterwards. Maybe it's an idea. It says, "Thank you for the floor. Basically, the bill addresses some basic sound principles in the relationship between business and the consumer. The consumer must be able to buy a product on an informed basis; companies must comply with the law when marketing their products; children and young people must not be manipulated and exploited in marketing. I am sure we could all agree on that in this Chamber. Then I've looked at this speech afterwards, and if you can see it, I've written a lot. The first word I've written to is in big letters, and I don't know how many lines below, and it says overimplementation. We start by saying that there is a directive that needs to be implemented here. And we can just take it that, for example. DI, Agriculture & Food and a great many others have problematized that a fine ceiling of 4 million should be imposed. EUR 2 million and not EUR 2 million. euro. I understand that the Ministry has then gone in and said that the reason for this is that we should not reduce the level of fines here in Denmark, and we are in agreement with this in the Left. However, we are in doubt as to whether what the Ministry is saying is quite right. We're missing some evidence here. So the minister has a duty of conviction there. So good luck with that, I'll say to start with. Then we'll take the next one here. After all, we have had a fine little working group which has chosen to keep the business sector out, it seems, and there you go in and look at the level of fines in spam, in misleading marketing and in a lot of other things. And that's what they call a bit of an adjustment of the bill. I do not quite know, but if you imagine that Mrs Mona Juul will come to the hairdresser and say that she would like to have her hair adjusted, and Mrs Mona Juul will not look like what Mrs Mona Juul is doing, but if she gets the rapporteur here's hairstyle, then we are no longer out in what we call an adjustment. That's probably where we're looking at the fines that are coming. Because you are now changing the whole criterion of how we pay fines in Denmark, and we are not quite crazy about that. And I want to say that it says "adjustment," but everyone else has said that it is a fine level out of proportion. And we'll probably agree with them. So there we are also relatively sceptical, I think the Minister can hear. Then we'll go over to all this with kids and kids. Why don't we take care of our kids and kids? There may also be some people up there in the gallery, but I am sorry, I do not wear glasses, so I do not see how old you are and of course we must do so with regard to advertising etc. But is a ban the right way to go? So we may very well be in doubt about that in the Left. Can we not find another way where we go in and then be sure that we can see that it is actually advertising? For even the Children's Council is in here saying that if children and young people have previous entrepreneurial dreams, what then? What about them? What can they be allowed to do? And then I was going to google, and I found a really cool girl, and I'd like to admit that I've never heard of her before, named Naja Münster, 12 years old. Holy moly, and I'd probably have said something I can't say from here, but it's a cool girl. What does she have to do after this? Can she be invited to Fårup Sommerland and then post on her social media that she has been to Fårup Sommerland? Can she do that? I don't think she can. And what's the problem with that? So we're having a little trouble understanding that. If you don't know who she is, she's a really cool girl who's got more followers than all of us in here put together... so pretty cool girl. So I hope the Minister understands that the Left is constructively involved in the work of the committee, but we have a great many questions and a great deal of scepticism about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012140340	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012140401	As far as this bill is concerned, it is of course an advantage that, after all, it only deals with amending the Marketing Act in relation to direct and unfair commercial practices. There are two elements in what the Minister for Industry has actually explained quite thoroughly. There it is about commercial practices aimed at children and young people in relation to advertising, etc., and then there is the other, which may be a little more problematic. This is in relation to the new fine models proposed here and, above all, the fines imposed in relation to the current tariff for those who are caught in having done something that violates current consumer legislation. We in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that there will be these stricter measures in relation to commercial practices aimed at children and young people. In fact, we think it is reasonable enough that there are opportunities for increased sanctions in cases where companies are more than creative in getting in touch with young consumers, but also to lure them into buying something online, for example. Where, in our view, the chain may fall off the bike, it is in relation to what the Minister has come up with about a new fine model. That is also what the rapporteur of the Left devoted most of his speaking time to. There are therefore some schism that I think we need to look at fairly. It is true that several inter-branch organisations have run the doors of politicians to make it clear that what we are doing here, with the dramatic increases that are being proposed, is actually quite an abuse. Several of the interbranch organisations have also said that they do not, in fact, object to higher fines, but what must be the main thing is that the exorbitant increases in fines in connection with first-time infringements are not being experienced. For example, we believe that this should be the case, and that is also what industry organisations say there should be cost-related fines. They should only be applicable in cases of repeated, serious and deliberate infringements of applicable consumer law. Unfortunately, that is just not what is at the very heart of the proposal put forward by the government. There it is more rigid legislation in that, in the case of first-time infringements and relatively small scenarios, even quite serious fines could be put at risk. Let me give you an example with a shop in Denmark that also sells online and has a turnover of 10-20 million, for example. kr. a year: A fine of between DKK 80,000 will be found there. and up to 2 million. kr. for relatively small violations of our marketing legislation in first-time cases. Is that fair? We do not think it is in the Danish People's Party. In fact, we believe that in some of the examples that come, it would be fair for a fine to be paid, of course, and there should also be aggravating, greater fines in cases of repetition. But in these cases, where people have an employee, for example, who is going to give a wrong picture of an announcement on Facebook, or whatever it may be, one obviously has to go up to some fines, which, at least in relation to what we are seeing today, will be something serious and landmark. I hope that the Minister for Industry will take this into account in this discussion and in the debate that will have to be held at both the second and third readings of this bill. Because that is not what should be the king's idea of providing consumers with a higher level of protection. It is simply shooting tiny, cute sparrows with huge boforscannons, and nobody has any interest in that except those who sell the bullets. So that part of it we think the Minister of Business should look at seriously. There must be greater fines, and there must also be greater fines for repeated and serious infringements, but we need to be sure that no stupid penalty will be imposed from the outset, including in the case of first-time cases. That's where I think the government has to give in. These were supposed to be the words of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012140840	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no brief comments. This means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012140849	After all, the bill has been examined by my colleagues, so I will not do that. I'd rather put some other words into this. The discussion we have right now, about our lives online and on social media, is, after all, one of the most important discussions we can have with each other in terms of what kind of society we would like to have and what kind of future we would like to have, and it certainly does when it comes to children and young people. Now there are quite a lot of people sitting up in the audience, and I think you can say that it's quite booming to think that your analog life is really more real or more right than the life you live online. Many of us need to learn to understand that the digital life you have is just as important and that we cannot just say that if there is something you do not like there, then you have to walk away or leave social media. It is simply not acceptable for us to leave it up to the individual to make individual choices about what he likes to put up with. It is about making demands on social media, on the tech giants who are, and on digital life at all, on the life we have online, on what is right and fair. We from the SF think this proposal is very good. There will have to be some very severe fines, in cases where there is a criminal offence against the common interests there are. That is why I think it is only good that the European Union has come up to a level of fines that is as large and as high as it is here. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we in the SF tabled a proposal on digital child protection a small year ago. Some of our proposals have also been listened to by the government, or at least covered by some of the proposals recently made by the government, and thank you for that. However, we are going to table some amendments to this proposal, although perhaps it is a little special, because this is the implementation of some EU substance; these are some of the amendments that relate to some of the elements that we have in our proposal on digital protection based on the resolution we have tabled. One is that we must ban behavioral designs targeted at children and young people under 18 years of age. It sounds rather technical, but it is really about how we are all manipulated and about how children and young people are also being manipulated. We know this quite specifically: that if, for example, we do so. is inside YouTube, is a particular design that is made to maintain us and our attention. There is also a design that actually radicalises because you are constantly exposed to material that is wilder, more violent or goes in a particular direction than what you already saw. And these aren't coincidences. Nor are it coincidences when those who work for the tech giants are, to a lesser and lesser extent, IT-people and programmers and are more and more people who know the brain; they are behavioral psychologists and scientists. This is because it is about how we can be manipulated and how we and our attention can be maintained. That's what's called behavior design. This can be done by law, if we are just enough countries that go together, say we will have banned, at least when it is products that are about and are aimed at children and young people. The second is a demand for privacy by design and opt-in models instead of opt-out models, and again it's about the fact that it shouldn't be the individual's responsibility to say: I'm gonna walk out of this; or I'm gonna put a lot of fly legs. For then the problem that should really be common and collective is individualised, namely that the products to which we, and especially children and young people, are exposed, must respect privacy; they must respect that it should not be a trade in exchange of privacy for the benefit of being able to be on a social medium. It should not be the case that if you are at TikTok, you have to give all of your most intimate and private details about your privacy in trade to be where everyone else is. It should not be the individual's choice. This must be something that we collectively decide to do. Now I know that I came out a little tangled, but I just want to use the opportunity to discuss this, which is precisely about child protection, the protection of children and young people, because I often think that when we discuss digitisation and when we discuss our digital lives, it sounds a little like there's nothing really to do, because the tech giants are so big, and because our lives are so much digitised and are online now. That is not true. I think we should be aware of our responsibility and say: we are politicians and we can also change the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141402	That is absolutely correct. But we have just a brief comment to make to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141406	Thank you, sir. President. I would really like to have SF's rapporteur reflect a little on how much profit there is normally in a Danish retail shop, which also has a little bit of marketing of products on an online platform, for example, i.e. an internet store next to a physical store. I mentioned before an example of a store that may have 10-20 million. kr. on the market. Is the SF rapporteur aware of what the average retail shop in these days has in excess?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141443	I can imagine that it is not very tall, among other things. Because we're not enough parties in here, like... We think that we should better protect Danish online shops from giants such as Amazon or Wish or Chinese mega companies, but who think that it is quite all right that the Danish market should be flooded with products from elsewhere. We simply do not agree with that. And when I say it a little polemic, sir. Skibby, that is because it is one of the reasons why it will be incredibly difficult to be a Danish store, including online store, if we do not soon really take action against some of the global giants that are, which we cannot in any way compete against.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141526	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141527	Yeah, that's right. And as one of the few parties in the Folketing, we have in fact tabled a motion for a resolution, namely B 125, which the SF has also supported, in relation to the lex Amazon discussion. So we are one of the parties that, after all, is doing something active about it. So we are in complete agreement on that. However, I think it is important for the rapporteur to reflect on what the profits are in these retail shops, when the rapporteur's party is now advocating that it is quite fair to be able to impose fines as high as 4%. of their annual turnover. I mean, it's seriously heavy fines you can face. Does the SF not share our view that it should only be in the repeated, harsh and deliberate cases that such large fines are imposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141610	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141610-2	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Skibby just said this in the end, because it sounded like if you were just so small, you wouldn't have to pay any fines for breaking the rules we make together and that's not how I see it. I think we might also read the bill differently, because that is what Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, as if he thinks that, by chance, you might be affected by these penalties... I don't read it that way. But I would very much like to be sure that it is not I would like to be very sure that it is not the case that, just because you make some tiny mistake, you can get a very, very large fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141651	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141707	Thank you. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, we welcome the focus on consumer protection in the market law, and we welcome this proposal, just as we have voted in favour of previous proposals, which have also improved consumer protection. In particular, we welcome the part concerning the protection of children and young people under the age of 18, which is now being bombarded to a large extent by misleading advertising. We think, however, and it is then in agreement with what the Children's Council says that there may be room for improvements and clarifications, for example. with regard to hidden advertisements targeted at children and, incidentally, also the things mentioned by the rapporteur for the SF, about further improvements in the area of Privacy by design. It is also a discussion that we would very much like to take, also in this context. We would like to help look at how we can make some amendments that can tighten up here. We would very much like to talk to our good friends in the SF about that. Another chin in the proposal then relates to a fine ceiling, which has been discussed here today as well. There I can only see that the Consumer Ombudsman, in his reply to the hearing, states that in certain situations the ceiling on fines may lead to infringements of the Marketing Act actually paying off. And we think, from the point of view of the Enhedslisten, that we should not have any of that. We therefore feel, like the Consumer Ombudsman, that the fine ceiling should not be interpreted in absolute terms, but that an estimated profit also provides for the possibility of fixing a amount of fines which may actually exceed 4%. the annual turnover, so that it simply does not pay to break the law. So that is one of the things we would like to look at in committee work. But basically, we are in favour of this bill and, of course, we would also like to clarify any details as to whether this would mean that very small companies, where an employee makes a tiny mistake, should have a disproportionate fine. This is not how we read the Enhedslisten's bill, but I think it would be good to clarify such issues in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141923	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012141932	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Here is a bill which has the best intentions, but which is completely over. I mean, I get deja vu back when the Quick Loan Act was to be made. It got sloppy, and so does this if we don't stop right now. We cannot and must not accept cheating and fraud and deception. There is certainly potential to tighten up and come better after the thieving companies that distract gullible Danes from their subscriptions and money, for example. Unfortunately, they are by no means frightened by police and fines. There is certainly also a basis for giving better support to our children and young people so that they are not exposed to unacceptable marketing • we do not want that. The objectives are very good: out with unfair commercial practices, up with the fines, and let us protect our children and young people better. But this is running away. Consumer protection is not just too far-reaching; it is simply ill-thought out, in my opinion. These are descriptions which have not been worked out, well thought out and well defined and delineated. What is, for example, what is going on here? unfit products? How, however, should companies act and find out whether or not they are covered? How, however, can you work with the same campaign on different platforms if there are different standards and when these standards are not compatible with existing rules? The fines are a chapter for themselves. I can give you an example which will be quite wild and which is not about retail chains that Hans Kristian Skibby talks about. DSB sent out 200,000 texts without consent at one point. You can't do that. They got a fine of 800,000 kroner. too. With this bill, without looking at it, DSB would be fined 40 million. kr. Well, just try to relax. It is completely out of proportion and it makes no sense to calculate fines on the basis of turnover. What about companies that have a huge invoicing? That doesn't make any sense at all. Finally, I have to say that it is quite unacceptable to push this law through to its entry into force on 1 January. It is in two and a half months' time. After all, it does not give time for the conversion of already produced material and already produced campaigns. This is exactly the same challenge that we had with the Quick Loan Act as if some people had forgotten what the Conservatives were not in anyway. Lift your foot off the accelerator and let's do this properly. As a minimum, I would like to see a technical review and consultation during committee work. We need to know what is turning this upside down, and we also need to see examples and have them put into practice. And we need arguments as to why we need to overimplement again. We don't want to do that. So, ladies and gentlemen of the rapporteur, this is not going to work. We may be ideologically different, we may think differently and make different demands, but I am sure that we agree on the intentions of L 13 and that we could actually agree with the Minister on that. But should we not also give ourselves some time to tighten up the Minister's proposals, for this is simply not good. I know that the Left greets the Radicals. Finally, I should like to mention what the rapporteur on the Left just forgot to say from Radicals, namely that Radicals are awaiting L 13 here, because they also have questions about the proportionality of the level of fines, and they will of course ask questions about this in the context of committee work before they take a final position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012142311	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012142319	Let me just start by quoting my good colleague from the Conservatives: this is a mess and we are not going to vote for it in New Citizens. That's how short it can be said. There is no proportionality in this. It is an overimplementation of things from the European Union that we are already opposed to them deciding. So there's not much in this that we think is positive. Yeah, maybe the intentions. But we should not make legislation in here that is based only on intentions. They should also keep up with what follows. So we're not going to support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012142345	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012142357	Basically, I am so pleased about this, as I have some knowledge of how to do in France and how to do in Germany. That is why I also come to address the concept of over-implementation, which we need to agree on what we mean by. It's not the kind of concept you can rightly just use interchangeably. We certainly need to have a definition of it. But what is fantastic about this and then I come back to the problems afterwards is that we are finally getting something similar to the German Jugendschutzgesetz, which is a youth protection law which is very much based on marketing, and which is also similar to the French law, which even has a children's rights court to defend children's rights against, for example, children's rights. marketing measures and a wide range of other measures that may harm the child's best interests. I think that is quite excellent. It is good that we are also beginning to tighten up here. For too many years we have been overly enthusiastic about technology. It's good to be technologically enthusiastic. It's good to be technologically enthusiastic. That is why we are fantastic at taking on new technology, but if you are so technologically enthusiastic that you do not experience the dangers that, for example, you are experiencing. If you do, you suddenly get into real difficulties when you have to regulate backwards. That is where we are today with the tech giants, because we have not had the courage to put an end to it. Every time you have tried to do away with some of the things that are going on online on social media, what happens then? Then you're accused of wanting to close the Internet. I myself experienced such a campaign while sitting in the European Parliament. All sorts of people were supposed to call that guy Jens Rohde down in the European Parliament, and then my phone number was there. Then there were just mega hardcore campaigns, and it was all guided by Google and Facebook who thought that we would destroy the Internet because we think that such things as copyright that apply in the physical world should also apply in the digital world. That is where we stand, every time we try to do anything in the field of commerce or anything else on the Internet. We cannot allow ourselves to be slowed down because we have some consumers we need to protect and we have the right to withdraw democracy. It's not supposed to be controlled out there. It has nothing to do with retail chains and things like that that could get horribly wrong. That's what we need to look at. Because the question is, do we fix the bakery for blacksmith? Because they do not control the algorithms; it is not they who always control where marketing is going. And that is where we must ensure that there is no fine for a manufacturer or a retail chain, or whatever, because they have entered a room and are in a system where the algorithms lead to some places that they could not know were going to happen. That would not be very appropriate, and that is why we have some technical challenges to discuss here. But basically, it makes sense. So for the overimplementation thing. What does overimplementation mean? Does this mean that we are implementing beyond the framework of the directive? A directive is, of course, a framework law, and countries are allowed to go into the framework as they wish. They are not allowed to paint beyond that. Therefore, when we discuss this, we need to know whether it is a subjective definition of over-implementation because we do not like what we are discussing or whether it is an objective over-implementation because the government goes beyond the framework. I think that what we have been addressed here is the first, but we can check that in committee. As a starting point, we have a positive approach to the draft law, which we think addresses something that should have been addressed a long, long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012142917	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments, and since no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012142924	Thank you very much for an interesting debate. It is no secret that social media plays a really, really big role in our society, and in a lot of ways they do well, but in some ways they also hurt, and if you are a child or a young person today, you are exposed to advertising for everything from cosmetic surgery to sugardating. It's a mess on social media. I believe we have a joint task here in the Danish Parliament to protect our children and young people so that they can live in a completely secure balance between what is happening in the digital world and what they meet in the physical reality. And that is why we have legislation before us today, which I believe is ambitious, but which I also believe is necessary. The amendments to the Marketing Act that we have in our hands today aim precisely to increase consumer protection for our children and our young people; the proposal takes action against traders who do not comply with the rules of the game when it comes to marketing. In addition, there is implementation of the Modernisation Directive, which is also part of the legislative proposal. On the basis of the government's initiative to tighten up social media requirements, we are now proposing to tighten up marketing requirements for children and young people under the age of 18, because our younger generations must not be physically or mentally exposed to the marketing of products that are harmful to them. In the draft law, we propose by the government to prohibit the mention, pictures or references of products which are unsuitable for children under the age of 18. This is true, for example. sexual or pornographic material. It could be cosmetic treatments that, in addition to it, are being marketed as if they were diet products, and in this way there are a large number of examples, and this is an extension of the current ban on publicity, pictures and references to drugs, including alcohol. Then we also have to be honest with each other when we have such a bill for consideration as we are doing today, because the level of fines that exists today does not have enough preventive effect, or said in a slightly different way: I do not think we can accept here in the Folketing that it can be an economic advantage to break the rules and take the fine rather than comply with the law, and we will change that, because of course everyone has to play according to the same rules for the benefit of Danish consumers, especially young people, but of course also for other age groups. That is why this draft law provides for a new and stricter penalty model, firstly, an increase in the level of fines for infringements of the Marketing Act, secondly, an adjustment of the penalty rate for infringements of the Marketing Act's spam ban, and thirdly, an extension of the scope of the application of administrative fines. And as a result of the modernisation directive, which the draft law here also implements, then there are new provisions on the measurement of fines for infringements that could harm the collective interests of consumers in at least two other Member States in addition to Denmark. The proposed fine ceiling is 4%. the annual turnover of the trader, if there is no turnover information, in cases with a Union dimension. And then these are provisions that lead to increased transparency in online transactions, among others. in connection with the ranking of products by online searches and by user reviews. So with what we have today, we bring the level of fines in Denmark to about the same level as in the countries we usually compare ourselves to. Worse, then, the exercise isn't. From the government's point of view, we see this as a necessary and a sensible step towards protecting our children and young people better and ensuring a more equal playing field for the entrepreneurs here in the kingdom too. Then I feel like saying about several of the things that have been raised that much of it has been super relevant. I think that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby pointed out some things that I think it is quite right to point out, and that is, in relation to how proportionality etc. We need to be sure when we're working on these levels of fines. I would just like to say that both that and other things that have been raised were already addressed after the hearing, just as the rapporteurs are also aware of it and that we should very much like to help if there is anything that is of particular interest in getting it uncovered in some written questions and answers, so that you can also clearly see where these various things have been addressed. But basically we are taking a very important step here instead of it, as Mr. Jens Rohde says that there has been a long-standing standstill in an area where we have stood by because the tech giants have either been too big or the political appetite too small. Now we are taking a first step, and it's about taking better care of children and young people in Denmark, and that's what this law is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143454	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143458	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I do not think anyone disagrees with the intentions, but I simply need the Minister to clarify this with the unsuitable products. Slim products were mentioned. What else is there in that definition, and will it be possible to put it into practice? In fact, have there been any organizations and companies with that definition at all? There is no indication of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143521	I am glad that we share our ambitions; that is a good starting point. I think we have been doing that for many years. Now we must also share the desire to put concrete action behind it. In relation to the unsuitable products: there are products that are illegal, and after consultation it is also one of the things that has been clarified, and there will also be a notice that will further clarify it. That is a fair question to ask, because of course you have to know that, so that you can live up to the law in question, but I think that is what I can say from here, and then we can help drill it out. But, of course, there must be clarity about this, so that as a trader you also know whether you are within the dial. But I tried to give examples of some of it in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143607	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143608	This clearly needs to be practiced, because it is typically the case that when it comes to good legislation, some examples can be unveiled, and I think it is a little difficult to do so here. I also need to ask in relation to haste. Why is it January 1st? And then let me ask the Minister something else. The mistakes you make either as a company or as a person are not necessarily mistakes you make consciously. Is there in any way, as the Minister sees it, proportionality to the fines imposed here? I know I have stated what I mean, but does the Minister really think that a fine of, for example, a fine of? 800,000 kroner. will be a fine of 40 million. kr., is quite fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143646	As I also said, and I think that was initially addressed to Hans Kristian Skibby, but it is now also for Mona Juul, some of the stakeholders who, in connection with this bill being in consultation, have pointed out that the level of fines was unproportional in several places, and that it has to be looked at, among other things. the duration of the infringement. I guess that's what it's all about, whether it's a flicker or whether it's something you do with your eyes open. I would just like to say that there is a very good point in having that concern, and that is one of the points that will be clarified after the hearing. In view of the entry into force, I believe that we must quickly go beyond the ice, but what is also included is the modernisation directive and that there are common rules for entry into force which we must comply with in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143735	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143737	It is, after all, fairly established practice at EU level to go in and look at turnover. One can then have an opinion as to whether this is a rather foolish way of imposing fines. But would the Minister not just confirm that what has been proposed is not that there should always be a 4-year turnover penalty, but that that is the ceiling? So what is intended is that in any case, the fine must always be proportional to the infringement, as we have common case law in this country, except in the case of foreigners, where some other rules and proportionality are not of interest to the Folketing. But normally we have proportionality in our case-law, and I would hope that the Minister for Industry will confirm this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143835	Fortunately, that is easy for me to confirm, because it is absolutely right. This may be my opportunity to reply to some of what Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby travelled in a previous context, about the smaller traders. I would just like to say that, as the draft law before us shows, proportionality is ensured, by emphasising the gravity of the infringement and the turnover of the trader, and by the way, establishing eight different categories of turnover, I think we are up to date, so that we can place ourselves in a position to ensure precisely the proportionality that Mr. Jens Rohde wisely points to. So I can just confirm what's being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143918	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143919	But is it necessary to look at turnover as size? Well, I just don't remember. I know that it is normal for us to do so; that is the way the directives are drawn up. That's often the way you approach it pretty much. When the Commission distributes fines, it always looks at the size of companies' turnover. But is this something that we are obliged to do under the directive, or can we find our own way, which might perhaps be better?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012143954	That is part of the directive as it stands now. Moreover, I must also say that I think it makes very good sense in these cases. Because we are dealing with some actors where it must not be the case that it is better to be indifferent to the law and then take the fine and earn the much money that might be about it • I actually think it was Rune Lund who pointed to it when he was up here on the platform. If we want to have levels of fines where the preventive effect is seriously taking effect, then we also have to have the courage to look at the level of turnover. I think that makes sense here, and it is also part of the directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144038	Thank you. And then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144040	Thank you. I have two questions. Should it be implemented from 1 January, or is it possible that I know that you have a desire for the Danish National Assembly to postpone it to a later date? So, is this a fixed date so that it is a decision that is taken here? In addition, I would like to get a little closer to what my good colleague from the Christian Democrats mentioned. Is it a requirement that it should be turnover, or can you do something else? Well, is there a specific requirement that it should be, and is the percentage so that you can screw on?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144116-2	In other words, the latter, I would very much like to take part in drilling out in writing so that we can get the right answer. But in the directive it is the turnover that is involved, and therefore also what we are taking as a starting point here. And I have to say that I think it is the wisest thing to do here too. Now we are asked exactly how firm the directive is in relation to percentages and what can be screwed on. I would very much like to come back with this in writing. Then there is the question of 1 January, which several people have also raised. In other words, the modernisation directive and the common rules of entry into force are what means that we have aimed to apply this from 1 January. Nor do I know whether I entirely buy the argument I heard a little earlier in the debate about the situation, if major marketing campaigns are planned, etc. On the one hand, I think we can change it, and on the other hand, I would say that we still have to be away in the context of what is proper and fair marketing, including for our children and young people. We're just sharpening it up in relation to the fact that you have to be able to pay a high fine if you break it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144223	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144225	Did this lead us to believe that it is a decision that we can take here in the Folketing, or is it something that comes from the European Union? Well, can we decide for ourselves when we're gonna start this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144235	Well, we're gonna have to try to get a little closer. However, in relation to the modernisation directive, the date of 1 January is fixed, and then it is the common rules of entry into force that make it possible for things to enter into force every six months. I also feel a bit like this: what's won? What is actually gained by postponing the protection of our children and young people by pushing it even further? I would like to ask that as a counter-question. However, I will come back in writing with the specifics in relation to 1 January. However, it is quite clear that, in relation to the modernisation directive, the date is 1 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144311	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144313	Now, of course, I have listened to what the Minister is saying, and I think that the Minister is quite wrong and confuses two things with this bill. One is what comes and needs to be implemented down from the EU directive and the other is the penalty part of the spam directive and all the things we are talking about. And these two things are just something that the Ministry has put together in a bill and are not something that has so much to do with each other. Isn't that correct? Or how are we supposed to understand this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144348-2	Yeah, I'm trying to tell you as clearly as I can. The Modernisation Directive is quite square, and we will have to adopt it on 28 November. There are also fines, and this is about fines when there is an EU dimension in it. Then there are national fines, which are also an element of the bill, and I really do not know exactly what it is the Left chasing here. I had the impression that, when it came to product safety, there was virtually no rear end to the ambition of the Left, and perhaps that was what played into the ambitious speech that was the first draft from the rapporteur, so that in this area too, when it came to our children and young people on social media, we would be ambitious. But now I think I am experiencing a Left which has become a little afraid of its own shadow and does not really dare to be so ambitious anyway, and if that is what lies in the fact that you cannot be on the level of fines and that you really want everything to come into force later, then I would think it was a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144446	Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144448	Don't worry: The left is in no way afraid of its own shadow. And I think it may be a little strange that the Minister is making an accusation from upstairs just because we make it clear that there are several different things in this bill and that the Minister may have mixed things up a little. And it's okay too, we're at the beginning of the year, but these fine levels are just really, really high. Can the Minister not tell us how to do it today and how to do it forward? I can see that my speaking time has passed so that the Minister can tell the difference between what is being proposed in what is called the 'B' part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144527	Well, that's not a charge. It is actually just a quiet and calm observation of how I experience the Left's attitude towards • I think two comparable approaches to consumer protection. And now it's about protecting children and young people in relation to social media... what you meet with advertising and what you meet with marketing on social media... and there we have to be able to have a high level of ambition together, and I just have to say that we also have to be honest with each other in this Parliament. The levels of fines that we have today do not work as a preventive measure, and that is why we must also dare to take the step to prevent them. Otherwise, we will not have the protection of our children and young people that we want, and I hope that in the work of the committee we can come closer to a common understanding of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144611	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144614	If the latter is what is essential to the Minister for Industry, then I think that the Minister for Industry, together with the Minister for Justice, should go in to look at the fees that are in relation to the Offer Foundation for those people who commit serious violence against others and pay some sort of kitten, for example. to have beaten other people to lire-boxmen. I think it would be more appropriate for us to take this debate on fines to suit the aggravating fact that some kind of criminal offence has been committed. However, I would like to ask the Minister quite specifically in relation to this bill and in relation to repeated grossly deliberate violation of the legislation on the marketing part. That's where we come in and talk about this percentage of up to 4%. of a turnover. I fully agree that there are lower percentages on other parts of it, but that is why the Minister must reply to what is being done in relation to these gross violations, so why should the percentage be so high on those who do something for the first time? Elsewhere in the legislation, we always have something called aggravating circumstances in cases of repetition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144725	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144726	I have two things to say, and now I think we're gonna keep the victim fund out of it just for a moment. What lies in this bill is, of course, a response to the fact that today we are not in a position as a society to protect our children and young people sufficiently well. I am impressed when I hear the Consumer Ombudsman say that the levels of fines we have today are not high enough. They do not work preventively, we do not have the effect we want, and that is why we need to get to the levels proposed here. Then there is another element that lies next to it, and I think that was it too, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby began in his rapporteur's speech, which some of the stakeholders have also pointed out, in relation to whether there is something unproportional in the way these specific fines are measured out. That is what I am saying, which means, among other things, that when you measure fines in this type of case, attention must be paid to the duration of the infringement and whether it is a first case; of course there must be, and that makes good sense. But I would like to make that clear in writing, so that it is also something you can be comfortable with, even with DF, if there is a desire to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144841	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144843	I think it would be more interesting if the Minister would give a guarantee here from Parliament's speaking chair that where there will be a 4-percent penalty in relation to the annual turnover of an undertaking, it should be in the rough repeated cases. This is something that may be overlooked in writing, but I also think that the Minister must say it here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144907-2	I'm afraid we're gonna mix it up a little bit, because the 4%. After all, where there is an EU dimension inside the offence and where there is not, but where there are serious and repeated offences, there must of course be high levels of fines. But perhaps, for the sake of clarity and transparency, it would be a good thing for me to have noted this here as a question I would like to answer to have something written down to the rapporteur, because then I think we will have more clarity in common about it, and that will only be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012144940	Thank you. Then I have no further brief comments to make, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed on this matter. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145001	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145021	Thank you. Perhaps it would be appropriate to use the opportunity here to also say that we in the Social Democratic Party have been very pleased with the very broad cooperation we have had to keep our hands under our cultural life during the Corona crisis. Together, in a broad cooperation across parties, we have ensured that high schools, sports associations, museums, theatres and artists and many others are still here today. Now that we are on the other side of the crisis and are seriously experiencing a cultural life in full bloom, there is really reason to welcome the work we have done together, with aid packages and compensation schemes that should support our cultural life, our leisure life and our sports associations. I believe that we have now reached the point of paying more than 5.5 billion. kr. in helping cultural life during the corona crisis. After all, it has been very important for all of us in here that we should get the money out to work. They were going out to work in cultural life, it should be easy to get them paid out. It had to go fast, the procedure had to be quick, there should not be too many documentation requirements. There is no doubt that this was absolutely necessary in the situation we were in, but it is clear that now that we are on the other side of it, it is of course also important that we can ensure that the payments that have been made have also been duly made. There is no doubt that the vast majority of those who have received support from compensation schemes and aid packages have done so in line with exactly what was intended, but it is of course also important that we check the places where the case may be another, namely that they are not used for the purpose that was intended in here and according to the rules that we had made. In the area of the Ministry of Business and Business Administration, there are now powers to supervise the aid packages. In the area of the Ministry of Culture, where it is Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen, which administers it, one has not had the same powers to supervise it, and that is why we are dealing with the bill we are discussing today. It is to provide the same supervisory opportunities for Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen, as the Danish Business Authority has today. It is basically about reducing the risk of cheating, of fraud and of fraud with the aid packages that we have paid out. Basically, the proposal is probably made up of three parts. Firstly, Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen (Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen) is given the power to obtain and process information about beneficiaries directly from other authorities. In this way, we ensure that the management board gets the necessary tools to ensure an effective supervisory process. Secondly, a whistleblower scheme is being set up to report suspicions of fraud with aid packages under the authority of the Danish Palace and Culture Authority, thus giving citizens direct access to reporting suspicions of cheating or fraud. Thirdly, the employees of Slots and Kulturstyrelsen are subject to professional secrecy regarding the information they receive from the Whitewash Secretariat. In this way, we protect bank employees and others who report information along these lines. When it is necessary, it is not because there is a lot out there in cultural life that has cheated. I think that is important to say. This isn't about mistrust of them out there. It is really about the basic principle that, now that we have spent 5.5 billion. kr. We have spent wisely and well on taxpayers' money, because we have spent it on helping cultural life through the crisis we have faced, of course, it is also reasonable to ensure that that money has been used for the purpose of supporting culture, sport and association in the crisis we faced. This is the control for which this bill creates the legal basis. With those words, I can tell you that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145418	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145430	Thank you. I can tell you that the Left can also support the bill. It is, of course, important to make sure that those who receive aid packages etc. are actually also entitled to receive the aid packages. Perhaps it could also be nice if there were some to control the authorities, in relation to the fact that the aid packages that have to be paid are actually being paid out and that things are going fast, because that is something that has been a problem. But, of course, we support the legislation. After all, we have also agreed that, for example, fraud involving public funds during the corona crisis is being punished more severely than would normally have been the case, and that is also a signal that we are serious about not using a crisis to commit fraud. And with those words, I would say that the Left backs the bill and thinks it is excellent that it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145528	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145539	Thank you, President. We, too, can support what the government is proposing, in the words of both previous rapporteurs, just as we have been pleased with the broad consensus which has been going through these hard months, i.e. for a year and a half, in relation to many of the aid packages in the field of culture, but also in other areas. It goes hand in hand, of course, that, on the one hand, we ensure that companies, cultural life, the whole of civil society can live on and, on the other hand, we also ensure that the rules are applied. So the only thing that I like, like, Mr. Simpson... Jan E. Jørgensen will add, is the essence of the fact that, of course, you also get expedited and administered it quickly. One thing is that Parliament can see that money and help have been made available, that is to say that it can be seen on the horizon, but it is of course also important for a great many associations and companies to enter the account so that the problems created by the covid-19 are resolved. So, with this request, I agree with what previous rapporteurs have said and say that the Danish People's Party is constructively involved in the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145702	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012145712	Thank you. The whole cultural life has its hands up with pure enthusiasm that it is now open again, as we used to have. It again creates celebrations and colors in our lives. During the last 18 months and a half, you have been creative and innovative by doing all sorts of different concerts, festivals, online shows, etc., and this kind of innovation and use of technology, of communicating and sharing our culture, they must have great recognition for and for them to have endured. Thank you for keeping culture alive during a cultural shutdown. For during the crisis, culture is one of the sectors that has sacrificed the most. For example, it was live music events that had to shut down first and which have been some of the last to open up again. It has cost dearly, both in relation to jobs, income, experiences and much more. It's had an effect on everyone. That is why, of course, we are still responsible for the fact that culture can and must continue its survival and development through the use of economic aid and the compensations we have been good at working together on while we have been shut down. With this bill, we now have the opportunity in the field of culture to monitor and monitor that organisations and organisers receive both the rightful compensation and compliance with the rules. Tightening the rules must ensure that it is not the wrong ones to get the valuable compensations and also that there is a alignment of the possibilities for precisely control and supervision as there is in the business sector. In SF we are aware of this whistleblower scheme and how it should be administered by Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen. Perhaps we can see some possible problems in having an institution responsible for both the payment of money and the processing of claims for compensation, and it may not be quite unnatural when we talk about these compensation schemes. But it's still gone Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen, who generally has a lot of this kind of administration. So we're preoccupied with the fact that exactly that whistleblower scheme will continue to have its unique location and will not have to mute in the work that Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen should also have. These concerns will be examined a little further in the future work of the committee. Then it is important for us to stress that we in the SF are advocates of trust, so when we exercise control and supervision, it must also be based on at least a fundamental trust in the many actors and organisations in the cultural field. We are confident that applicants need and want help, and confidence must be restored in the introduction of points from the legislative proposal. Finally, we must not allow bureaucratic thinking to dominate when it comes to the ways of life of all our cultural people. We are in the SF for the bill, and we look forward to the next reading in committee. Then I should say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that they agree with the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150027	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150034	Thank you. We also support the proposal. I think there are two perspectives on this. After all, we have seen a notification of some of these aid schemes, in which we have been somewhat in doubt as to whether it was intended, but also as to whether it was actually cheating, and we must, of course, have good opportunities to investigate that. Having said that, I also think that many of us are aware of perhaps most of all of us who have sat and made these support schemes... that they are super complex, stop, with A- and B-income, cvr-number, and I don't know what. And that is why I understand that at the same time some artists are sitting out there with such a bit of trembling heart thinking: may I now have made some mistake that makes me suddenly being reported by some angry colleague in a whistleblower scheme, and then there is double punishment because it is corona crime, etc. etc.? After all, there are some who mention this in the answers to the hearings. The Danish Authors' Association has just raised that flag in relation to the whistleblower scheme. But I understand that there is a similar regime in the business sector, and that has not led to a lot of snitching or persecution of innocent traders. And that is why, of course, I also hope that this bill will lead to us getting caught, finding those who have really cheated and speculated about using these aid packages, that is to say counterproductive, and not those artists who may have crossed a cross that turned out to be a little wrong, but who have not cheated in that way. So, with those words, of course, we can also support the bill. I would also like to express my thanks to the Social Democrat rapporteur for his cooperation. It started a little difficult, but I think that we ended up having a fabulous cooperation, and I think that, overall, we can be very proud of how we have helped the whole cultural life during corona. And yes, it started a bit with being the Folketing against the government, but I think that it ended up being a very, very beautiful cooperation between the government and us elected representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150256	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. We now turn to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150303	Thank you. Culture needs help now. That was my headline in a post in Berlingske in March 2020. There was an urgent need for help in a needy cultural life, and the understanding of the government was, to put it mildly, poor. The then Minister for Culture refused to call the current situation a cultural crisis, but that is exactly what it was. She should have kicked the door to the Prime Minister's Office and shouted a cultural crisis, for cultural life needed urgent help if our cultural heritage and the Danish people's soul were not to suffer serious damage during the corona epidemic. I think we all, both in the Danes and here in the Folketing, take it with us that culture has really shown what we are fighting for. Culture is our common mirror. If we did not have a cultural counterweight to the major changes that Denmark is experiencing right now and in general these years, we risk losing some of our national identity. Perhaps we are losing ourselves, especially when we have a language that is not spoken by many around the world, so here we need to stick to our traditions, cultural heritage and distinctive through culture. We have a fundamental responsibility to ensure that we survive, to ensure a Denmark that is linked, not only economically but also culturally. That is also what we call a cultural generation contract. In the midst of this crisis, culture brought together the Danes with various events, new events, creative events, online, but also outdoors. It was amazing to experience, and thank you for that. And it was a great experience to experience common songs, which we now also carry on in here at Christiansborg, so thank you to the Left for that. But it was also a new cooperation that arose between us colleagues and cultural rapporteurs, for which I would like to sign for, because we had something common to fight for. We weren't on our side, no, we were standing side by side fighting for the same goal. And that was needed at first. I'd like to sign the government for good cooperation at the end, but it was a fight we had to fight for first. We have landed over 20 different compensation packages and schemes for several billion kroner. It is a patchwork of schemes that are complex and difficult to understand, yes, I myself have a little difficulty getting the overview from time to time, and I doubt that I am the only one. It has been an important point for us Conservatives that aid should be released quickly and flexibly, and with this there has also been a risk of possible fraud and cheating. Today we are dealing with a legislative proposal aimed at reducing the risk of cheating and fraud, and of course we support this, because cheating and fraud are totally unacceptable, but fortunately few people are doing so, and we must bear that in mind. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150554	Thank you. There are no brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. I am looking for a rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, but I see no one. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance either. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the Christian Democrats, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150617	Thank you. Many fine words have been said, especially about cultural life, and the intentions of this bill are quite fine, and we cannot disagree with them. I just feel a little strange when, before cheating, fraud and something like that is discovered, you come up with a bill to prevent someone from cheating and scams. We're making a whistleblower scheme, and that's probably the one I'm most worried about. At any rate, I do not think it can be called a whistle-blower scheme. Whistleblower schemes are something that citizens can use if there is abuse in connection with the state and something like that, but now the state is suddenly using a whistleblower scheme among citizens, so they have to come and tell the state if it is the case that something has happened, they have some feeling not according to the rules. I'm having a really hard time with these things. I think we're all aware of the facebook police in this country and that we've all become policemen through the social media, and we're all very good at judging each other, and people are throwing suspicions at each other about one thing or another, and things are going extremely fast. So what can such a whistleblower scheme do if someone is mad at each other, as Mrs Zenia Stampe so rightly says, then not used for? In any case, I would very, very much like us to get the fence in, so it will be proper so that it cannot be abused. I have traveled a great deal in the GDR in the past, and I have just a little reminder of the time when such whistleblower arrangements are being made for the sake of state security, as was said at the time. But with these words, of course, we support the bill, but we just want us to get that whistleblower in, so it's gonna be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150836	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we have finished the series of rapporteurs and then we go to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012150853	Thank you for that, and thank you very much for many good, wise considerations on top of the period that we stand on the edge of and which, fortunately, mostly lies behind us. After all, this draft law is about the fact that, since March 2020, the Social Democrat rapporteur has been paid out and now I am already topping the Social Democrat rapporteur from the beginning of the rapporteur's term of office: EUR 6.5 billion. kr. both from the Ministry of Business and from the Ministry of Culture's area to the Covid-19 compensation schemes of the Ministry of Culture. It has been true, and it has been important to support everything from artists and high schools, scouts, sports associations, regional theatres, museums and many others to get through with the skin on their noses in a really difficult time. Fortunately, we are now in another place where the muzzles have been removed, the restrictions are gone and the payments from the compensation schemes are mostly behind us. However, before us is the report from the beneficiaries, which is also so important, which is why we are now focusing on that phase. There has been agreement across the Folketing that this help was needed and that it was needed quickly. It had to work fast. However, when we establish aid packages that need to work quickly, we must also make sure afterwards that we then have the right tools to ensure that the aid has gone to and to what has actually been intended and that we ensure that no one gets more than they have been entitled to. In this way, this bill is one of those you really don't want there to be any use at all. I would also like to stress in this context that it is my clear view that the vast majority of those who have received support from the state aid packages have sought precisely the intention of the aid packages. But there are also some where there is another, and these are the ones we are looking at with this bill to ensure that the funds we have allocated to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic also go to exactly where the need is. The purpose of the bill is to reduce the risk of cheating, fraud and fraud with aid packages paid by the Danish National Board of Culture and Slots. When this bill is adopted, the Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen will have powers similar to those already held by the Danish Business Authority to supervise the covid-19 aid packages. This is an alignment of powers across authorities so that how supervision can be exercised does not depend on where compensation has been received. The risk of fraud is reduced in several ways. The bill will, on the one hand, empower Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen to exchange and process data on applicants, also from other authorities, and then it will create greater security for citizens who have knowledge or suspicions of fraud with Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen's covid-19 help packages, but who have not dared to share their knowledge before for fear of being registered with name, and that it may have consequences. In connection with application procedures and payments, Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen has carried out the checks on applications that were possible at the stage of the process. The next phase is now the reporting, which is followed up on whether the information given in applications is correct and whether the funds have also been used for what they have been given to. With the bill we therefore propose that Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen get the home for e.g.. to obtain information on beneficiaries directly from other authorities. The information to be checked depends on the actual aid, for example. whether the aid has been paid in compensation for fixed costs or such as: activities pools to cover budgeted expenditure. There may be, for example: is a need to exchange data with the Danish Business Authority on whether an applicant has already received support from it, or there may be a need to compare income information from the beneficiaries' applications with income information from the tax authorities. And we can just do that more efficiently and flexibly in this way. In addition, and several people have mentioned this, we propose in the bill to establish a whistleblower scheme to which a suspicion of fraud with Slots and the Danish Cultural Authority's help packages can be reported. The scheme makes it possible to protect information about the notifier to the public, because of course we are not served by some citizens refraining from reporting suspected fraud because we cannot guarantee their anonymity. Like the corresponding whistleblower scheme at the Danish Business Authority, the identity of the reviewer will be known by Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen, because it allows the board to follow up on the request. This is essential in order to be able to assess the credibility of the notifier, because of course there is also a concern to take into account those who may be suspected. But it is also important for the board to be able to clarify the notification if the board needs more information. Perhaps some of you are thinking, and several of you have also raised the question here: Why should another whistleblower scheme be established when the general law on the protection of whistleblowers was passed just before the summer holiday? This is because this whistleblower scheme allows all citizens to report suspicions of fraud with the help packages, where the general law on the protection of whistleblowers focuses on demanding a whistleblower scheme for companies with more than 50 employees. Since many small companies, institutions and individual artists have received support from Slots- and the Danish Cultural Authority's covid-19 compensation schemes, it makes sense to establish a separate whistleblower scheme that can detect reports of this kind too. Finally, we propose that the Whitewash Secretariat should be able to send notifications of possible fraud to the Danish National Palace and Culture Agency without the person to whom the notification refers being able to know who made the alert. And by imposing a special confidentiality obligation on the employees of Slots and Kulturstyrelsen for information received from the Whitewash Secretariat, we ensure that we can protect bank employees and others who have reported information to the Whitewash Secretariat. This is a legislative proposal involving the exchange and processing of personal data. That is why we must strike the right balance between protecting the Danes' data on the one hand and ensuring that, of course, public funds and the Danish tax dollars should not be used to defraud them. Therefore, the draft law is limited to supervisory and control tasks in relation to the extraordinary number of payments made to needy cultural, sports and association actors in connection with the covid-19. Therefore, the focus is also on only collecting and processing information needed to check withdrawals from exactly these help packages. As a natural consequence of this, it is also proposed that the law be repealed when the proceedings of the covid-19 aid packages are expected to be completed by the end of 2023. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151551	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151554	I am sorry to say this, but when I hear the Minister's speech, I have some doubts as to whether the Social Democratic Party is in favour of the Accusatory or Inquisitoric principle of law... the dividing line came in 1919. But I would just like to ask briefly: does social democracy suddenly favour anonymous witnesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151621	The Social Democrats and the government are in favour of not being able to cheat on these schemes, but of course we also have to look after people when they dare to go up against them, for example. their employer with information on cheating and fraud. I think this is sensible in this context, and it is, moreover, a true copy of what we have jointly adopted in the field of the Danish Business Administration as a measure, while these aid packages are both paid and reported.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151654	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151656	But there is no one who thinks that we should be able to get away with cheating and fraud. Now we have a minister of culture on the platform, and what Albert Camus taught us at the time was that the goal never justifies the means... that's what his entire writing is all about. That is where he stood in a contradiction with Jean-Paul Sartre, for whom the end devoted the means. That's just what I think is a little interesting in this discussion, because everyone is against cheating, we maintain a rule of law and its principles if we let the end sanctify the means every time? It is not, of course, because the draft law as such is deeply problematic, but I actually think that the rhetoric of the Minister is a little bit worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151746	There's no need to worry. In this context, I'm more Camus than I am Sartre. Well, we're not going down any path towards anonymous witnesses in this context, but there's got to be an opportunity and I think it's nice to be able to provide some information about cheating that can then be followed up on. This is not, of course, the same as having been convicted of anything, but if we are to be able to control these reports and the 6.5 billion. kr., we have paid out very quickly to some who needed it very urgently, so of course we must also follow up on their reports. And if there are people who are aware of cheating and fraud in this context, then they must be able to deliver that knowledge. I think that is sensible, just as it was when we did it in the field of the Danish Business Administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151833	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151854	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur. It's sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012151921	Thank you, President. The draft law proposes the introduction of a new category of residential areas, namely prevention areas. These are residential areas where preventive and targeted action is needed. With the bill, we are taking a new step in the fight against parallel societies. Parallel social legislation is important because it helps to transform the most vulnerable residential areas into well-functioning mixed neighbourhoods, so we meet each other across ethnic, social and economic parameters in the rise, in net and to the parent meeting. In the end, it is all about ensuring that all children have equal opportunities in life, no matter where they grow up in Denmark. The draft law sets out to introduce areas of prevention and to take a number of initiatives, such as: the prevention areas must be covered by the rules on compulsory flexible rental, to strengthen the rental and authorising requirements in the new prevention areas, so that we can ensure a more mixed housing mix, to extend the existing possibilities for municipal provision of private rental accommodation so that municipalities have the opportunity to conclude voluntary contracts with private landlords, to do away with the designation ghetto, so that ghetto areas are changed to parall societies, and to change to hard ghetto areas. This is therefore an important legislative proposal, which will strengthen cohesion, combat parallel societies and ensure that children have more opportunities, no matter where they grow up in society and what social conditions they have. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill against this background.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152052	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152056	Yes, thank you. I was a little curious if it was a housing rapporteur standing on the platform now, but it wasn't. As far as I am concerned, this is housing policy, and it concerns some residential areas where there are now 110,000 people and where people are then restricted and who have to move into those residential areas. So if you are unemployed or you are of non-Western origin, you must not move into these residential areas here; you have to live elsewhere. And there I noted that the Minister for Housing had something good in his proposal, and it was not negotiated through · yes, there was one good thing in that proposal. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: where are the people who are not allowed to move into these areas to live? Because I have noted in some hearings that there are warnings that this could be social exports, that is, that there might be some people, for example. in the Greater Copenhagen area, which is not allowed to move into a large number of housing associations and thus end up moving, what to say, further to Zealand than the Greater Copenhagen area. Is it something that matters to the Social Democratic Party that such social exports can happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152205	First of all, I agree that this is housing policy, and I am beginning to replace our housing rapporteur, who is on the way to maternity leave, so that is why I am here and it is not in my capacity as rapporteur for foreigners. In addition, there are different ways of being unemployed, and as far as I remember, there is also a distinction here between whether you are on cash benefits or on cash benefits. The average recipient of the allowance and I say the average, I don't say all, and I don't cut anyone by one, but I'm just saying the average recipient of the allowance is typically more resourceful than the average recipient of the cash benefits, which is why it can be a significant exception. I would also like to say that this concerns, as far as I remember, about 50,000 homes, but there are 500,000 non-profit homes in Denmark, and in this way there should be the possibility of finding some other housing solutions. Finally, to the final point about social exports, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentions, I would say that, among other things. is here, where it is then suggested that a more flexible framework could be found for concluding some contracts with private landlords, and thus you need not necessarily leave the municipality. If you do not have so many non-profit homes, you could also conclude an agreement on some private rentals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152311	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152314	Well, I think it's a good thing that that little, thin, watered-down section about having the authorising right to private rentals should be evaluated. This will probably mean that there is not so much to evaluate over. It's gonna be a short evaluation, I guess. Since we are in a situation where there are fewer and fewer areas, which are what some say is a hard ghetto, because you have made a housing social effort, why is it that you do not include the housing social effort in this? In other words, some people are being cut off from moving into some residential areas and it is noted that there is a problem with too many unemployed people living in there. Why has this agreement not placed greater emphasis on housing social work?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152352	Well, it is, in terms of how you look at things. I think it is a good thing that we are focusing here on whether we could create a model of agreement with private landlords rather than a compulsory model. And, of course, it is true that an evaluation of it has been made, and we must hope that it will produce some good results. But otherwise there will be an evaluation ahead of us in a few years' time, and then we will have to see what the results of it say.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152416	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152418	I think this is an image of the privileged Social Democrat defending this. It just doesn't make sense. I fully agree with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. It does not make sense to say to some of the people whom we have created general housing that they should not move into an area. Where the hell are they gonna live? After all, these common homes are designed for people who just cannot afford to live elsewhere. Are they staying at Frederiksberg Allé? Or where are they supposed to be? We need answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152504	Yeah, we'd do that if that's how we said you're not gonna live anywhere. But after all, there are 500,000 non-profit housing in Denmark, and this concerns 50,000 non-profit housing. So that means that there are a lot of other homes available, while we have a hope that this will open up the possibility of getting more agreements with private provision, that is to say, getting more agreements by removing some of the restrictions that have been around so far, the length of time for contracts with private rental, etc. So I don't recognize the premise that this is supposed to be some kind of privilege blindness. On the contrary, this is, of course, about trying to put an end to some structures and some established traditions in some residential areas, where there have been children in resourceless families who grow up and only meet each other. Here we try to create a framework so that they also get some other comrades, get a different network and also see how a life can shape itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152603	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152605	No, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, you don't create any framework for them to recover or move on. That's not what this is about. That's not where you move people. You don't move people mentally by physically moving them and saying they can't go there. It is quite different bets that need to be made, and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen again right. It is paradoxical that, if you mean something by this, you do not take the housing social action into the work and recognise it and make it an integral part of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152644	Well, I disagree. I mean, changing the important framework of people's lives, what it is for some conditions they live under, is extremely important. I remember reading the book Bowling Alone by Robert Putnam some years ago. say something about the mood that stays in areas where diversity becomes too great, where confidence disappears and where one cannot recognize each other's lives and where one no longer walks together. People start watching more TV, they dare not go outside, they lose confidence in other people. That is why we must ensure that people are mixed up so that we do not have these resourceless areas where people become insecure and lose faith in the future and where young children do not see that there are any other prospects for the future than those that they meet at home or see in their neighbors.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152736	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152738	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions the 500,000 or 550,000 general housing that is here. Could the rapporteur then give an indication of how many of these 550,000 people are now unemployed and can apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152756	No, I don't know how many there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152758	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152800	No. If you do a simple search, you see that it is 629 and many of them are youth homes and one-bedroom. So it's just for us to give a real picture of where it is that you can search. The fact that you can then just look for something else is not the reality. So you just have to be honest with all the people who say they can just look for something else. No, they can't, because those homes are occupied by some others who live in them now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152820	There is always an opportunity, as well as there is, when using the tool flexible rentals it is clear that it is not from one day to the next that you are changing a residential area. But you will eventually change a residential area because you use flexible rentals to ensure that those who move in are either in education or in work. This means that small steps at a time are being taken to eat the elephant, and that is what needs to be done in this kind of structural change, where we need to change a major and crucial social issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152851	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012152907	Thank you for that now fits the height of the platform even today. The Left wants a Denmark without parallel societies. We want a society without ghettos by 2030. This is why we concluded the agreement on initiatives in the area of housing that counteract parallel societies in May 2018. We basically want to create the best framework for people's lives and opportunities, with security and freedom for children, women and men, young people and the elderly, no matter where in Denmark we live, whether it is in the countryside or in the city. The 2018 agreement primarily addresses urban areas, in the conversion of residential areas. Changing residential areas is a long and tough move, and special tools are needed to make it succeed. We've come a long way, but we're not there. So with the new agreement on mixed residential areas, the next step in the fight against parallel societies on which this bill is based and on which we entered into with the government, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the SF in the spring of 2021, 500 million are spent. kr. in the Landsbygningsfonden to raise the framework for physical transformations in the exposed residential areas. The core of the new agreement, the proposal here, are the areas of prevention where several of the same specific efforts can be made to prevent the formation of parallel societies which are currently in place for vulnerable residential areas, including reinforced rental and authorising requirements in the new prevention areas. The proposal also provides that the rules on subletting and swapping in the General Housing Rental Act should be amended so that the rental rules applicable in vulnerable residential areas can also be enforced in cases where the rental takes the form of subletting or swapping. It creates greater rigour and clarity, and it makes good sense. The proposal also extends the scope for all the municipalities in the country to be able to conclude agreements on private housing, but it must of course be based on voluntary agreements. It has been absolutely crucial for the Left that private individuals should not be forced to enter into agreements, and we are pleased that we have made that clear. I would also like to highlight several elements that have been important to the Left in the context of the agreement. It has been important that it has been agreed to evaluate the agreement in 2024-25 and that the Minister should report back every year on the composition of the residents. It has also been important that the proposal should not give social exports from the cities, especially from Copenhagen, to other municipalities, which typically will be rural municipalities. The Left does not want that. Furthermore, the proposal must be able to be lifted within the existing general housing stock, and then I have to point out that semantics, words and terminology do not solve the challenges that we face it is not here; the Left's focus has been • just as we know that the transformation of residential areas cannot stand alone. We need women and young people to work for education, and then we need to be sure that they meet a different reality from the one they meet every day in parallel societies. In these words, we look forward to a committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153229	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153233	How much does Mrs. Heidi Bank think you can get for those 500 million? kr. In the construction business today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153245	Well, that must be in relation to the areas that have been mentioned. After all, two specific areas have been mentioned where there is a need for further action, and they are, of course, the ones charged with the amount set here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153257	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153258	And how many private people do Mrs Heidi Bank think I am pleased that Mrs Heidi Bank is stressing the voluntary nature of this, so that it must not be imposed on private individuals will get involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153321	I am actually reasonably confident that private players would like to bid here. If you make proper business models and proper agreements based on proper voluntary basis, I also think that private people will want to be involved. I am not saying that everyone wants to participate, but I say that there will be some private people who want to take the voluntary initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153344	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153346	The rapporteur now stressed that there should be no social exports as a result of this agreement. I have also noted that the press release that was sent out after the agreement was concluded quotes from Heidi Bank: but instead it stated that the agreement must not result in social exports above the municipal borders. This is something that is already happening from the Greater Copenhagen area to the islands. Now an agreement has been reached restricting the possibility of some people moving into certain areas. So you sort of increase the number of areas where you can't move in if you're unemployed or if you have a non-western background. Well, that's about them. 50,000 homes where there are 110,000 people. This means that there are even more areas where some people cannot move in, and perhaps some people have some low incomes. You have to go where there is a rent that can be paid. Does the rapporteur not see that there will be this social export as a result of this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153454	What we are trying to do here is to avoid parallel societies. I can, of course, agree with the answer given by Mr Van der Klaauw. Søren Egge Rasmussen got from the Social Democratic rapporteur on this. Well, this is about breaking some patterns. It's about women and children getting better opportunities. It's about, for example, that you... as a woman can get out and work, and that you are not being held in the home. So it's about coming out and seeing something new. And in relation to this concern, which I understand the rapporteur can have, in relation to where you have to live, because there is a reason why we have been aware of it in the agreement. After all, an opportunity has been created for the municipalities to increase the authorising framework. And that's an option you can choose to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153535	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153536	I think that was a rather thin talk, even though several rapporteurs have said the same thing. With regard to this issue of voluntary agreements with private rental, I note that the rapporteur hopes that it will be something that will fill. I think it's gonna fill pretty much nothing. This is sort of a scheme that we tried in Aarhus Municipality back in the mid-1990s, where we offered private landlords that they could get a quite large amount of money. a year if you had to dispose of their apartments. There was no one who turned to that scheme. Can the rapporteur not see that it is something similar that will be repeated here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153615	I mean, what I care about here is that you have the opportunity. As I also know it from the municipality of Aarhus, now the rapporteur and I come from the same town, I actually think it is the case that when there is a willingness to make agreements with the private, you also often succeed in doing so, but that requires you to stand in a place where you also want to take part in looking at what challenges the private landlord can have. It can, for example. be the concern that a tenant cannot pay his rent, where you see as a municipality helping to look at how to then reduce the concern of a landlord • just to mention one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153656	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012153714	Thank you, President. This bill is an expiry of the totally irresponsible immigration and asylum policy which the left and the bourgeois parties minus the Progress Party and the Danish People's Party led to 2001. Of course, the best thing would be to start the repatriation of unintegrable people to their home countries. This would lead to fewer problems in the ghetto regions and make it easier to be a Dane there. The big challenge is simply that for decades the same irresponsible majority has distributed citizenship in grams, which is why we are today faced with an almost insurmountable task which, like a millstone, hangs around the neck of future generations. On average, three out of four non-western residents have Danish citizenship in the prevention areas. They can't be repatriated. In this respect, the law therefore appears to be foresight and reasonable because it allows us to avoid the emergence of new ghetto areas in well-functioning residential areas. The Ghetto Act of 2018 has been a success, but also means that some residents are looking to well-functioning residential areas nearby. If we do nothing to stem this pattern, in a few years' time we will face the same challenges in new residential areas, and then we can start over. The law therefore assumes that no more will come to Denmark from among others. Middle East. That is why I am also pleased that agreement was reached in the circle on the following wording and I read out: "Net immigration from non-western countries to Denmark has been decreasing since 2015 and is now low. The Parties agree that the agreement is based on a condition of continued low immigration from non-western countries. If the net immigration from non-western countries is in proportion to the level in recent years, the parties agree that the circle can renegotiate the agreement. In addition, it says that it is agreed that the composition of the resident should be reported, including the proportion of residents from the MENAPT countries. The level of training and employment and the use of existing housing stock must be explained. With all this, the statement must form the basis for discussion and possible renegotiations. We're very happy with this. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for nodding 'yes' to these words. In particular, SF needs to have acknowledged words in order to have nodded 'yes' to these parts of the text. I know how hard this has been. The party has moved in recent years on the issue of immigration, having been populated by headless immigration ships. We can, among other things, move forward. Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark and Mrs Halime Oguz too. I would like to acknowledge that. As we know, our Lord rejoices in every transgressed sin. Now all we need is the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left joining the real club. The attentive listener has probably also noticed that the Danish People's Party will continue to use words such as ghetto and ghetto areas, regardless of changing the wording of the law to other, nicer words. I am not going to repeat the presentation by my good colleagues of the content of the draft law, they have done so well, but just briefly announce the support of the Danish People's Party to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154110	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154120	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Alex Ahrendtsen for recognition. I would say: yes, perhaps I have moved, but I have moved to the left because it is left-wing politics that we live side by side across culture and social and economic divides. In SF, we have always supported the principles of getting rid of some of the most vulnerable residential areas and ensuring that people live and live together across culture and society. It is the whole foundation of our unique welfare society. I have seen the consequences of growing up in these socially disadvantaged areas for children and young people. Religious indoctrination, social control, forced marriages, young people who end up in criminal environments, gangs, poor conditions for education and work. It is simply not right, and we must never allow that to happen again. Everyone, regardless of ethnicity and background, must have equal opportunities to unfold. That is why we in the SF are very happy to be part of an agreement that will precisely prevent our housing social areas from being socially burdened, that they will end up on what we used to call the ghetto list. Speaking of which, I am very pleased that we are introducing new terminology which is more accurate. The agreement also states that the municipalities can make even more agreements with the private housing market and thus have the opportunity to extend the authorising right. All in all, this is a very good agreement, which we in the SF support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154327	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154332	Well, congratulations on being in the good company with the Danish People's Party in this case. After all, it is a matter of limiting the rights of some unemployed people and of some people with a non-Western background, so that they cannot move into about 50,000 homes in Denmark. And what is to be done in return? There was, after all, one good suggestion from the Minister for Housing: that a municipal commission could be made for a large part of the private rental stock. It is then not possible in this agreement to arrive at it, so on that point those people who cannot move into certain residential areas failed to do so. Does the rapporteur not see that this leaves a number of people who may have been on a waiting list for a long time to move into certain housing associations • Perhaps they have chosen to move in there because the rent is available to pay for a situation in which they have to seek away? Does the rapporteur not see that social exports can be a consequence of this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154435	I'll start by accepting Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's congratulations for being included in such a socially ambitious bill, which guarantees precisely that freedom, equality and the rule of law, in other words that we, at least on the part of the left who is still responsible, ensure that our residential areas are precisely built on those values. I am very pleased that we in the SF are in the agreement that ensures that we can give our children and young people a better future than the young people who have had these poor conditions in these vulnerable residential areas. And then you can mess with the question of where people are going to live. After all, the municipalities have the opportunity today to give 25%. of the homes, but today they have only used that option to 13 per cent. of the housing, so they have the opportunity to increase the number.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154541	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154543	That is an average figure, and if you look at these areas of prevention, for example. in Aarhus, there are four areas where there are more than 8,000 people currently living, and there are a lot of people on the waiting list for the four departments. But those people can't move in there, and so there isn't just anything about going to the municipality and saying that you want to be assigned somewhere else. Can the rapporteur not see that we are looking into something here where we see that social exports can also take place in Jutland, when you cannot move into the residential areas for which you may have been waiting for years?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154618	I do not actually know exactly where to start, because I simply cannot help being provoked by the fact that a party which prides itself on being a leftwing party cannot see the enormous problems and social exports that are and have been in these socially disadvantaged areas. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, I have to understand, with his privilege blindness, simply cannot see what problems these areas are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154657	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Susan Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012154707	Thank you for the floor. This bill is the execution of an agreement between the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance. The Radical Left is not included in the agreement and therefore largely does not support the draft law, which essentially deals with the extension of the ghetto package, in so far as it has been found that areas which could end up in the ■ at least the reasoning to become ghetto areas should also be subject to the instruments used in the ghetto areas we have today. However, I would like to make it clear that the Radical Left can support parts of the legislative proposal. These are the parts dealing with reducing time pressure, increasing the possibility of municipal authorising rights for private rental property and more funds for renovation. So we would like to vote in favour of those parts, and that is why the Radical Left would like to ask that we should be able to discuss a division of the legislative proposal in committee. If I can make it, I will quickly walk through the eight changes. We do not think there is a need for new areas to be designated and further stigmatised with falling house prices in the neighbourhood. We do not think that it can be ruled out that the change in words from ghetto to parallel societies can be a better myth, so we are positive about that. We welcome the fact that time constraints are being reduced in order to reverse the trend in ghetto areas from 4 to 5 years, and we also consider it appropriate that local authorities should be able to establish their criteria by directing them, and the proposed compulsory use of specific criteria in areas of prevention is considered to be counterproductive in relation to local knowledge. We are also of the opinion that restrictions on access to subletting and prey are unnecessary. Furthermore, we believe that the proposal to increase the possibility of municipal authorizing rights in private rental buildings is a necessary consequence so that the housing social task can be solved more easily, but we would like to point out in particular that the housing social effort must follow. Furthermore, we are opposed to extending access to demolition in the so-called prevention areas. Again, it seems that things are going very far, as they are precisely areas which are not ghetto areas. We also believe that the same is true of the possibility for the municipal council to impose an order or to take over the business in an area which is not a ghetto, which is in fact an extension of the ghetto areas. Finally, the Radical Left is in favour of adding additional funds. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155036	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155057	If this bill is adopted, it is of course a matter of areas where there are currently 110,000 people living in some housing associations. They may have a local name and they will then also be called "prevention areas in the future." I don't know how great it is to live in a prevention area. But it is a bit strange that we need stamps on certain residential areas. And I find it interesting, when you're from Aarhus, to know that you have a system in Aarhus Municipality, where you keep an eye on housing associations with over 500 inhabitants and, like there, you have a focus on what kind of social problems it is that may be emerging, and then prioritize an effort after that too without those areas having such a hard stamp. The people who are then not allowed to move into these residential areas are then people with a non-western background. These are also areas in which the unemployed are not allowed to move in even though they may well be able to pay the rent. They may have been on a waiting list for certain departments for many years. I myself live in a local area where there is such a certain pattern of movement, where some people move to the city in the residential areas where the rent is highest because there is the shortest waiting list there, and in time you move to the older residential areas where the rent is lower. And you can make that move around, according to what it is for a size accommodation you need. This is the flexibility that is important if we are to continue to find it attractive to live in a general home. But now it's so limited again. I really had the hope that after all the G-laws from previous ministers the Minister of Housing would come up with some improvement. And that is not the case with this bill here. There has, however, been one good thing in the Minister's proposal for an agreement, and this was the opportunity to indicate for the private rental, so the municipality had several tools. If you look at the areas that have been most focused on parallel societies, when you look at the lists of what was previously called a g-area, the number has gone down from 29 to 15 areas, without the measures adopted in 2018 being implemented yet. So we actually have a development in certain residential areas that is moving in a positive direction. One has an experience that the housing social effort is working. And when you see such a bill here, where you limit some people's ability to move into certain areas, because you think, for example, that. I am thinking, then, of the fact that there are too many unemployed people living in that area, or that there are too many people with a non-Western background, why not also adopt something that could be positive? Why not make it compulsory that there should be a housing social effort in the areas with which we are dealing here? Well, that would make sense, I think. Instead, you just have this tool with some specific people not allowed to move in. And then we are faced with the possibility of what is called social exports, which are already taking place to a certain extent from the municipalities around Copenhagen and to other islands around Zealand and to outlying areas of Zealand, where you can find a housing that is cheaper. I think it is poor when you limit some people's ability to settle without giving them a proper alternative. It would be consistent if, in its negotiations, the Minister of Housing had arrived at what was actually proposed that the municipality should have an authorising right for one in ten vacant apartments in private rentals with more than 20 leases or more. And that should not apply in all municipalities; it should only apply in those municipalities where there are such areas of prevention. Actually, I think it was connected. And it was, of course, a limited amount of housing that would be given the opportunity to point out, but it could be part of a good solution that would be somewhat balanced. So you haven't ended up there. I find it sad to see here that there is increasing discrimination against citizens with a non-Western background and against the unemployed, and that is why Enhedslisten cannot support this bill. It is said in the draft law that it does not have economic consequences, but it will have that for some housing associations, which are subject to restrictions, in relation to who is allowed to move in. It can therefore give a longer period of time in that clarification of who should move into a vacant dwelling, and thus could result in empty housing for which the residents of the housing association then have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155600	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155605	Thank you. As I hear the rapporteur, he is snowing that it is a poor bill and that it is better just to do nothing. But the reality is that we are seeing areas where people, particularly with Somali, Iraqi and Lebanese backgrounds, are lumping themselves together and where everyday language is Arabic, where unemployment is high, where crime is high, and it sounds to the rapporteur as if nothing should be done, because it is a pity for these people that we are actually trying to legislate and soften these areas up. With them, that is particularly a pity, the children who grow up with Danish as a second, third or fourth language, because it is just not what is spoken, either on the street or in the rise, and when the children then reach the 0th grade, they are already so far behind in language that it is going to prevent them for the rest of their lives. Does the rapporteur really think that the best thing is just to take this bill, toss it into the garbage bin and do nothing and then just see how things are going with the children who grow up in areas where at least you don't speak Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155700	If the rapporteur had listened to me, I asked a rhetorical question as to why it is not compulsory for housing social work to take place in these areas, because that would be the obvious thing. If you think there are major problems out there, you should help the people who live there. I have also noted that there are only positive feedbacks on the priority of housing social action, and that, for example, there are positive feedbacks on this issue. helping some young people, who may not have so many contacts with civil society, with a pocket money job, can be something that can be incredibly important. I once visited Mjølnerparken, and there I heard stories that the fact that the young people who grew up there were given those pocket money jobs and were given the opportunity to earn some money and have their own allowance, had thus meant that some of the dealers who were in the area had to import young people from Rødovre in order to maintain their hash trade. So it was decided to make a housing social effort in a certain residential area that worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155803	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155805	Well, this is generally a housing social effort and, as I understand the rapporteur, the rapporteur is very, very sorry that the part about the municipalities being able to force people into private homes has been tampered with, which is something we are very pleased about. If I understand the rapporteur correctly, he believes that this is actually a problem. After all, there are plenty of tools without having to go in and force private property owners. What we've got written into this is that if you're willing to rent out your property, of course there's that possibility. But the thing about forcing people into private property, I'm certainly very, very glad not to be part of this deal, because then we wouldn't have seen ourselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155838	I believe that if the municipalities had several tools, it would be easier to see a reality where there were not so many social problems in the same residential area. There I found it refreshing to see that the Minister for Housing was able to see that it would be a plus if the municipality could also indicate housing in the private rental stock. That would, of course, reduce the concentration which the housing rapporteur is talking about as a major problem. Then some of the Somalis, which the housing rapporteur described as a problem, could be assigned to housing in the private housing rental stock.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155913	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155916	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether an area such as Vollsmose can cope with the fact that more socially vulnerable people are moving in. After all, the rapporteur speaks a lot about social exports. Should we open the door to more people, with the same challenges, whether socially or culturally, moving into an area like Vollsmose?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012155946	Now this bill concerns prevention areas, and Vollsmose is not included. It's part of the package that's stamped hard ghetto. Here we are dealing with Højemarksvejkvarteret, Owner's Happiness, also in Odense, and Korsløkkeparken East in Odense. So there are three residential areas here in Odense, where there are about 4,000 people and where it becomes harder to move in. So this bill does not concern Vollsmose at all, but three other residential areas in Odense. I am not so familiar with all the residential areas in Odense that I can describe what could be the problem here, but I would guess that housing social action in those areas too would have a positive effect and that perhaps something special could be done to help the people who live there to achieve a greater degree of employment or education. In other words, I would be in favour of this, if that is what the draft law was about. But it's not. It is, in fact, just a bill that limits people's ability to move into, among other things. the three specific areas of Odense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160056	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160058	I am well aware that Vollsmose is not part of this. However, the proposal for a directive is precisely intended to ensure that we do not have any areas which are developing in the direction in which Vollsmose has ended up, and the rapporteur is opposed to this. What surprises me is how one can both be against something and at the same time say that one does not have enough knowledge of an area such as Vollsmose, which is so well known for all the unhappy things that are going on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160132	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160133	Well, I don't want to talk about Vollsmose when the bill deals with other residential areas. Then there is no reason to highlight some residential areas in Denmark, which have been characterised as where there are the greatest problems. So here we have a number of other residential areas where 110,000 people live, there are 50,000 homes, and there you try to impose restrictions, so that if you have a non-western background, you cannot move in there, and if you are unemployed, you cannot move in there. What is it like to help the people who then live in those areas? You don't want to do anything. I think that is poor, and that is why it is a bad legislative proposal that we will not vote for, and so it has nothing to do with Vollsmose at all. Because it's not about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160211	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160227	Thank you, sir. President. After all, this agreement is a direct extension of our 2018 parallel society agreement, where we took action against ghetto areas, if you still have to use the word where people with a non-Western background, with criminal background and high unemployment clumped together. Now allow me to quote the former prime minister from then, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who said: There are holes in the Danish map where Denmark is no longer Denmark. If you actually believe that it can be changed if you believe that integration efforts can lead to something positive, and if you believe that children are better off growing up in an environment where they actually speak Danish, Danish friends and associates in an environment that is just like the rest of Denmark, then this agreement is just a good deal. As I said, we are expanding because we see prevention as just as important as softening the hard ghettos. The effort must of course also be seen in the continuation of the good work of the Danish People's Party in this agreement, namely to write in that it is equally important to keep the number of asylums low. Otherwise, this will have to be looked at again. For all the other things being equal, if the number of asylums starts to rise, this is going to be an endless effort. In addition, we are pleased that the agreement also allocates 500 million. kr. to improve and renovate the areas included. It makes everything else something more attractive to move into these areas as well. The agreement is an important part of our overall integration efforts, and we are pleased that such a wide range of parties support, ranging from SF to S and at least most blue parties. Conservatives also support the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160410	Thank you. There are no brief comments. No, I'm sorry, there was just one person here. It's sir. Christian Juhl, who has asked to speak at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160420	I once had a colleague who was a party friend, if you can say so in this assembly, and he came from Gentofte, and he said: Christian, I am really sorry to live out there because there is an overweight of big criminals that I am surrounded by. Then I say, "What do you mean by that?" Then he says: Yes, they cheat on taxes, and they have money abroad, and they do tricks and fancy things. Then I said, "What do you mean by that?" Then he says, "I live in a rich man's ghetto." Then I say, I think that's a pity for you, and we should have done something about that, we should have moved these people. Then he said: yes, but there is no majority for that in the Folketing. I mean, isn't it demonizing individual groups to keep on talking about such a negative concept as ghettos and keep on doing that? I mean, we have ghettos in many places, and people want to live with those they can mirror themselves in. Why is it only those in the lower layer of society who are interested in, and not those in the upper layer?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160524	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160525	I was smiling a little while ago when Mr. Thompson... Christian Juhl described them in Gentofte as a bunch of criminals. But it's not really something worth laughing about. It is very discriminatory to say that people living in Gentofte are someone who has earned their money by cheating and corruption. That's extremely condescending. I know most people who live in Gentofte or in so many other Danish municipalities have earned their own money without doing so through crime. This agreement is not something that goes for people who are in the lower part of society. This agreement says that if you come here from abroad and do not speak Danish, it is not healthy for your children to grow up in an environment where you crawl together across Somali, Iraqi and Pakistani environments and where everyday language is not Danish. It is not healthy for the children, nor is it healthy for getting people into work, and that is exactly what this agreement would like to improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160618	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160620	I now think that ghettos with very rich people and ghettos with very poor people are equal problems. It's really, really unhealthy, and it's really, really unusable that you don't get involved anymore. But I know that when you are a Conservative or a Left person, it is a taboo to talk about that there are indeed problems up in the top layer too, and that is why I think we should talk more generally about these things and not indulge a certain group of people, but instead say that we should try to have a holistic change with greater equality and with greater balance and harmony in all our residential areas. I also think wealthy ghettos are a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160659	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160701	Now we're talking about a little different things here. This agreement is particularly directed towards people who come here with non-Western backgrounds, who do not learn the language, and where the children saw, even when they hit the 0th class, it is so far linguistically backward that it becomes an obstacle to them for the rest of their lives. Then we can talk about whether Denmark is an equal society. All other things being equal, Denmark is one of the most equal societies in the world. When we talk about squeezing, I think it is a pity that Enhedslisten has to slash people over and over again just because they earn their honest money or start their own business.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160730	Thank you to the rapporteur. This time, no one else has signed up. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012160738	Yes, here we are again with another attempt to address some problems, but once again, in my optics, the wrong tool is being used, and the term patch solution is easy for me to use in this context. When you have these challenges, it is based on a long-standing failed immigration policy and immigration policy, and if you are not willing to put an end to that policy, then these problems are just growing bigger and bigger, and they will do so in the future. This means that we will also need to have even more state control in the future, even more detailed management of people's lives, even more control of where they must settle, and I do not like that, and New Citizens do not like it. The state must decide less about the lives of its citizens. Then we are talking about people who are not in employment, but not so much for people who are on unemployment benefits; it is obviously nicer to be on unemployment benefits than it is to be on cash benefits, because then you are not really unemployed, you are just another kind of unemployed, and then it should not apply to them. In addition, the problems of unemployment must be solved by employment policy and not by such a fatality in housing policy. There is the consequence of the policy pursued by the government, unfortunately, that people have been withdrawn from the labour market. Denmark has been made poorer, and it does not make it any better for development to have been unable to get people into the labour market. And as long as you continue to give citizenship to people who should not be granted citizenship, as long as you do not do away with the failed asylum system, and as long as you are not willing to throw out criminal aliens consistently after the first sentence, these problems are growing. I've been looking at these... what are we up to now, number 26 or 27? Did they work? No, they haven't. Then you do experiments where you bus students around to different places. Then there's a requirement that you go to crèche if you live in these areas. All of this is the consequence of not being willing to use the tools that could actually solve this. And then you can try to pretend to the public that when you do this thing, we'll see that everything gets a lot better. But if we do not have another action plan in three years' time for a residential area where we are just trying to make another patchy solution. So there we have a different approach to it in New Citizens, we have the political courage, the political will to go in to make the changes that are needed so that we do not have to make these patch solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161100	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161103	I have to ask, a little out of curiosity, because I fully agree with New Citizens that we have given too many Danish citizenships, and I fully agree that the government's policy of depriving the free secondary school elections is also quite wrong, but the reality is, and I think it was indeed the Danish People's Party that pointed out that part of the people who clash together, for example. With Somali background or Iraqi background, and where children grow up in an environment where they do not speak Danish, have already acquired Danish citizenship, and then we have the reality we have, and one cannot change that by saying that we just have to stop assigning Danish citizenship: with the reality we have, what is it that the rapporteur will do to actually soften up these areas so that there are no children growing up in an environment where Danish is not the normal language to speak down on the street or in the rise?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161147	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161148	The first thing you do when you get into an accident is stop the bleeding, so you have to stop it. You have to stop it so that this problem does not continue to start and occur, and there I wish Conservatives stood with New Citizens to stop the granting of Danish citizenship. But Conservatives won't. I wish Conservatives would stand with New Citizens to demonstrate criminal aliens consistently and after the first sentence. But neither will Conservatives. So until you are willing to do the things that we know will change far into the future on Danish society, it is a bit of an offensive to stand and accuse others of not wanting to be involved in patching up solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161234	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161234-2	I'm not saying New Citizens don't want to be in it. I'm just saying that we have the reality we have: some of these people who live in these ghetto areas already have Danish citizenship, and then the solution is not to say that we should not assign more. That does not solve the real problem we have here and now. During the negotiations on Danish citizenship, we had very, very tough demands which we did not have introduced. We got some improvements, but we didn't get it all. But when we have the reality that is right now in Vollsmose and in some of these areas, what will you really do to soften it up? We will not solve that by stopping future citizenships.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161306-2	There are four things you could do. You could start putting some requirements in primary school that you don't, to the students. Today's just a good day for them to show up. In addition, you could say that if foreigners who have to support themselves cannot support themselves, they must go home. This means that a number of people wanted to go home, and that means that they would also change the composition of the dwelling. In addition, there are people who are on cash benefits. Municipalities could start to fulfill their task of actually sending people to work. If they don't get to work when they're ready for work and on cash, they can take their money from them. There are a large number of areas that can be started. You can start to do this so that integration is a personal matter, instead of always having to slip municipal money in the back. So there are a large number of measures that could be taken and that would have a much greater effect than what you are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161340	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161342	Thank you. Few of the people who are in this country are now criminals, no matter what group we choose, and therefore I always find it sad to discuss with politicians who make the whole world a problem and whether we expel or not exhibit a few criminals. Yes, I'm sorry, I'm saying it, but we all have to be here, and there are Danish laws, and there are international conventions that have to be observed, if you have it as a principle in your party building. I would like to say to the matter of housing social work that it was, however, a serious accusation to come and say that it does not help to do housing social work. I must guarantee the rapporteur that it does. I have many, many years of experience. I myself have lived in areas that have been close to getting that stamp, which some find interesting to give residential areas with many social problems, and it helps a lot to make football clubs for young people. It helps a lot to look at young people's opportunities to have a good leisure time, it helps a lot to get people into work, it helps a lot to get educated people in areas that are socially burdened.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161452	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161453	I don't even know if there was a question, but I understand. Enhedslisten is a big part of this general housing sector and thinks it's going so well. There we can only see that developments have gone wrong over the last 35 years, and it can be said that this is also the responsibility of the Enhedslisten. But I'd like to address this with the fact that everyone has the right to be here. No, everyone doesn't. Foreigners who come to Denmark and choose to commit crime in Denmark, a foreign rapist who has raped a woman here in Denmark who is convicted and who has been in prison, have no right in my optics to be able to return to Danish society. They must go home to their own country, just as I thought it was reasonable for Danish citizens, if they were doing crime in France or Germany or somewhere else, to have to go back to their country. So no, everyone doesn't have the right to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161559	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161600	Now the rapporteur is doing it again, in other words talking about a few. And here we are talking about a social problem which is about many. If the many got a job and you wanted to focus on integrating them into society and making sure that the children got an education, that there were football clubs and that there were everything else, then you can actually get a really good development even in the areas that some are called ghettos. Why can't we focus on the many? I think there are some parties that make a living by indulging in quite a few who are probably criminals and who can then sit and focus on so narrowly instead of looking at the breadth and the development of society as a whole. That's awful to listen to, though.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161646	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161647	The majority of convicted gang members are foreign nationals. But now it was the rapporteur who mentioned everyone. Then you just have to say that if the rapporteur really wants people to get to work, you have to stop supporting a government that you have to stop adding votes to a financial law that pulls people out of the labour market. We must begin to support those parties that actually want to reduce taxes and taxes which allow people to get a job out there. But instead, Enhedslisten votes to make Denmark poorer and withdraws people from the labour market, and then you are wondering why people do not get to work. Come on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161721	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012161733	Thank you. Oh, it's just before I don't bother. I remember Simon Spies being interviewed once, and he didn't really get any words out of him, and then the interviewer said: you don't say much, sir. Spies. And then he said: No, it's because once I've thought about it, I don't want to say it too. When you hear this discussion like this, you almost don't know where to start and where to end, and then you actually almost lose the urge to say what you're thinking. I think it must be very hard for the rapporteurs who have proclaimed from the platform here that this is about social policy and housing policy, when one can then see that when demasking starts the debate here, it is all about foreign policy. Now I have to keep my words, because I do not really want to be involved in polarising the debate, but all of a sudden it is all about people coming from outside and that they are generally a big problem and that the way we solve it is either to throw them out or by marginalising them or by putting them into prevention areas or ghetto areas by putting them into boxes in such a proper way. That's the way we do it, and we're gonna tell them not to be in those boxes, by the way. Well, it's kind of the reverse world. It's a little too bad we end up there every single time. I am murderously irritated and tired of a Muslim behind the veil in all the debates in this Danish Parliament. Whether we are talking about agricultural policy or not, it must be financed by restrictions on foreigners. Whether or not we talk free schools no, it is no good that we give the schools complete freedom, for there is always a Muslim behind the veil that will destroy Danish society, and so on. It's all the time! My experience of the outside world isn't like that at all. It is something that is created here in our heads, at least too far the greater part. And if we really meant something about this being social policy and housing policy, we could start by agreeing that we should not make people poorer. The only thing you never help any human being knows is to beat them in the head by, for example. to introduce poverty benefits. What's that for? Let us then ensure that all people are equal to the benefits and then demand that they enter the labour market. For Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is right that the best we can do is to ensure that people enter the labour market. And there I have to sign up to the government, by the way, because it has been suggested that we all now have to take not only people from non-western countries but all of us into the labour market in order to be able to receive benefits. That should have been done many years ago. It is common sense, and it is wonderful that the Left and the Social Democrats have finally dared to say to the trade union movement: you know what, friends, it is actually necessary that we do this. All honor and respect for it. There are also sensible things in this housing proposal, because you can talk about social policy and housing policy at the same time. We would also like to contribute to the 500 million. kr., and we even think it takes more money to renovate, because it means something where you live. I mentioned earlier in my previous speech that I have traveled a lot in the GDR. That's where they only built a gray house block. Why would they do that? Because then people stopped thinking. There shouldn't be any colors. The point was that people shouldn't think. And it's shocking to see what we've actually built of concrete blocks around here in this country. So, yes, housing policy matters. And with the rules on subletting and swapping and all that, it's also nice to do that, and municipal authorization. I doubt it's gonna work because I don't think there's a lot of private people biting on it, but it's actually okay, the intention is good enough. But I'm sure I'll give Mr. Knox too. Søren Egge Rasmussen is right that the one placing people in prevention areas is fine, so you already have stamps on your forehead, mate ^ isn't very cool when you get to school. And what is the logic of building common homes that are for them on the edge of society, those who cannot afford to live in the expensive dwellings, and then we say to them: There you must not go. There is something missing in my world view, and that is why I do not think that this proposal and this agreement end up as much as symbolic aliens policy, and I fear that it will end up being counterproductive. That is why we are not going to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162259	Thank you. It has thrown off a series of brief remarks, and the first one is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162305	I'm gonna be really happy that I live in a red-painted house and not in a gray house, when I hear Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde's speech. I think it's nice to hear a little bourgeois decency, and it's not enough just to think the thought, even if the power of thought, and what you really think, when you're with other people, can have a meaning. We really need to take the dialogue, so I think it is a good thing that Jens Rohde went to the platform. It must also be said that there can be processes where you win, that is to say in the agricultural agreement there is nothing small racist in it; there is nothing like restricting some people's ability to learn Danish, and I quite agree that it was then a very poor proposal that the other blue parties came along when they had to try to finance something in the agricultural sector, because it would obviously not be possible to do it without having to enter and weaken some people's ability to learn Danish, and it is actually quite crazy when you know what is going on. So thank you for saying something rather than just thinking bourgeois decency.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162409	Thank you to the questioner. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162412	Thank you for this greeting from the House. I think it should just be allowed to stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162420	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162424	I do not have to thank you now, but I would just like to remind the rapporteur that Lars Boje Mathiesen does not want people from other countries to enter the labour market. You have to leave the country, I understand, and I think that is a double pity at a time when we are lacking labour, and you do not have to enter the labour market, as the rapporteur said, in order to get your benefit. You have to enter the labour market to earn a salary so that you are free from benefits. I guess that's basically the idea behind it. I would like to tell you a little story about the Parish Guard down on Lolland, where some residents, who are core Danish, with little income, now need to renovate their homes, and they need that too. But it's a well-run housing association, and they've gotten from the construction fund, and they're ready for it, but then the mayor says: I don't want you all moving back afterwards. He can't formally decide that according to the housing minister, but he says that because we need to get a mixed population in. And they're happy about their homes. So I really believe that some housing social work could be done, saying that they have the right, of course, to return to their homes and that they should have a better housing standard. Because when the next ones come, they also want to live out there, and there's a good mood. There's never a crime out there. That is why it is very good to work in the housing sector, which is why I would also like to thank the rapporteur for focusing on the central problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162546	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162548	I shall confine myself to saying that I also believe that we should not relax, but rather do the opposite in relation to housing social work. Because, yes, we have proof of that working. We know that, and that is why it is pointless to reject housing social work as an effective means of doing so. But you shouldn't deny it either, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says about having a job, so that you do not have to have benefits, and you can also feel that you are an integral part of the labour market. That's a good thing, too. I mean, I know Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen's views on the foreign debate, and what I'm getting a little out of tune is that it all ends up in that foreign debate. But it turns out every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162654	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162657	But does it matter that a majority in the Folketing maintained that it was housing social work that is the essential thing? Then it may well happen that some people are shouting from some corner that they only want to talk about refugees and immigrants. But if we maintain the main line and there is a majority in favour of it, and perhaps even a comfortable majority, then we could come very, very far with many more and many more nuanced initiatives. Because there are many good experiences, and if you are in doubt, you can come to Silkeborg and see a few of them, and otherwise I know that in neighbouring towns and other places there are actually really, really good experiences with social housing work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162735	I would ask the rapporteur to remember this with direct indictment. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162736	However, I note that we are a minority in this debate, and I am happy with the questions from the Chamber, and I am also pleased with the words of appreciation. However, there is not really any contradiction with the views we have about where the focus should be. So it's kind of hard for me to answer. It's like a reporter asking co-talk questions. What is to be said?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162816	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Jens Rohde Yes, here we go!).
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162822	Yeah, well, it's gonna be a lot better now. Then we can have a proper debate instead. I'm so tired of maybe having to break up Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde's bubble, but the 37 hours of work and the people going out to work are all about foreigners. I mean, it's not Danish citizens, it's not Danish citizens. These are specifically some who have not met a language requirement and all sorts of other things. So it is designed to hit certain groups of people who are not Danish citizens just equal, so we are aware that with the 37 hours so far it is not included at all Danish citizens. So we're just gonna get this straight. In relation to saying that everything is going to be about foreigners, I would say: No, I don't know if everything does, but this does. Because I do not think it can be imagined that there would have been so many parties that would have been for this if it were an area which was only for Danish citizens and what would be termed ethnic Danish citizens. Would you then have allowed yourself to make these rather rough rules as to where you as a Danish citizen may settle in Danish society? I do not like that, and that is why we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162927	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012162928	Well, now I haven't read the bill. Well, it's possible that sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen is right that it does not concern everyone. Well, that naturally puts an end to it, compared to what the rest of us are left with. Because I would like to help all those who are not in the labour market to enter the labour market and that everyone should do a job, a useful job, or what we call it, if you do not have a job and if you are not prevented from doing something like that or something else. Because in this context I just have the starting point and the principle and have always had it that the law applies to Loki as to Thor. That must be what we build our community of law and our laws on all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163028	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163030	I very much agree with that. And I think we are trying to solve a problem which, it might be said, is both a legal problem but also a question of employment policy, with some housing policy instead. It's also very much my appeal about these things. I would like to ask: could the rapporteur go into what the Christian Democrats' approach to solving these problems is? Is it also that there is a demand that you as a foreigner support yourself, or what are the Christian Democrats' solutions to these things? Are those tax reductions? Is this about making it easier to enter the labour market to get people out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163104	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163106	I don't really think I can quite unfold that here in 30 seconds. This is a little bit difficult, for Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is right that things should be seen in a context. In other words, it is about both tax policy and labour market policy and also about making demands and having expectations, yes, for those who come. I also subscribe to the view: those who can and will. But we also have a group of refugees, in other words we have people coming from outside where some of them are severely traumatized. I also feel that we have a responsibility to deal with them. And you cannot necessarily just say that you must enter the labour market immediately. Although the law must apply to everyone, we need to take an individual look at each individual person and family.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163154	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163158	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I am always listening very closely to the rapporteur when he speaks because it is always so lyrical and poetic in one way or another. However, there were also some things that I did not really understand, and that is why my question is whether the rapporteur thinks that this is a sincere desire to reach out to his fellow citizens and live side by side and wipe out the social and cultural differences that exist or whether it is to put people in some boxes. Because I did not quite understand what the rapporteur meant by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163249	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163250	But you put people in some boxes when you say you live in that area, and that's what we call it, and you live in that area, and that's what we call it. Well, the prevention area I'm not sure about solves much. But I have lived in what would be called a ghetto today because my father lived there, and it was not because there were so many immigrants then, but there were juicy people with strong social problems, and many of my comrades from up there have died of drug abuse etc. That's what I was trying to explain to you, sir. Jacob Mark at some point in a facebook post, that is to say that it is a social problem that we need to address first and foremost, and not an ethnic problem, and that is not where I think Mrs Halime Oguz is. But that is just the way it is, if you stand on the view that there are social solutions that are needed, and we must attack it with social policy, that it must then be a little frightening that some people make so much of it that it is actually not at all what it is about in that agreement, but that it is about foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163405	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163406	Now I know that the rapporteur is also a Christian Democrat, and that is where culture and values are concerned, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's answer as to whether it is social or cultural policy, for example. a young girl with ethnic background cannot be allowed to choose which way she will go and who she will be married to or girlfriends with. Is that a social problem? Or is it an ethnic problem? Is it a social or ethnic problem that a girl should be a virgin until she gets married? I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163450	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163451	It's a multifaceted discussion. I do not think this is an ethnic problem. Well, it's not an ethnic issue. I know my own story, not my own personal history, but the history of this society, well enough to know that it is not so long ago that we both wore scarves and that there were the same rules, and there are, we must say, Christian branches of our society, where there is just as tough social control and control as there is in others, and we just don't often talk about that. So we just have to remember that the problems must be tackled where the problems are and that we must start by meeting each other there we are and that we must start by meeting people where they are, if we are to help them, and not by throwing ourselves into a debate about ethnicity. 'Cause I don't think we're gonna solve anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163552	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and the next speaker is therefore the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012163607	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for receiving the bill. We are now at the third year after we adopted the parallel society package in 2018, and I think we can see that that legislation has made a difference, a positive difference, in terms of ensuring more mixed residential areas, much more have come into work, it is progressing on most parameters. In short, the intention has been achieved, but we are far from achieving it yet, but we know that it has an effect. We must continue to support the fact that things are moving in the right direction, giving the municipalities and housing organisations the right tools to succeed, and we must initiate preventive action that is needed in some of the residential areas. That is why I am pleased that the agreement circle behind the parallel society package from 2018 in June also concluded this agreement here to prevent parallel societies, and that is what this bill is all about. We are proposing a new category of residential areas called prevention areas, which are residential areas where preventive action is needed, and it will consist of some of the tools currently used in vulnerable residential areas, and this means, for example, that flexible rental will be compulsory, if housing organisations and the municipality so wish, that housing can be demolished. The bill does not imply any requirement to change the physical composition. We also propose to tighten up rental and authorising requirements in areas of prevention in order to change the composition of the resident so as not to move in the wrong direction, and the municipal council will not be able to indicate any types of housing seekers to the prevention areas. In municipalities with many general housing in vulnerable areas, the stricter authorising rules could make it difficult for them to designate housing, and we therefore propose that there should be a limit to how many of the general family housing of the municipality will be covered by the stricter authorising rules. The rules on subletting and exchange of general housing also need to be tightened to ensure that the rental rules applicable in vulnerable residential areas are also enforced in cases where this is done through subletting or swapping. And we propose to change the way in which we address vulnerable residential areas so that the term ghetto is no longer used. It is not because I imagine that people do not want to use that expression, but because I think it is important that we have the most rightful terms in the legislation, and we are going to change it so that it is called parallel societies, and so that the areas that need to be transformed because they have been on the parallel social list for four years or more should be called areas of transformation. We will extend the period from when a residential area will be included in the list to a transformation, from four to five years, and that is how it has been during the transition period. When you tighten the rental rules for the general sector, there are, of course, questions about where you should be assigned a dwelling, and we propose that you have the option... First of all, it is perhaps most important to say that the proposed rental rules will not change the fact that housing seekers who meet the criteria to be assigned a dwelling by the municipal council should also have the dwelling, but they should only have it in the large majority of residential units that are well-functioning. The regulation of rental rules may create a need for a wider portfolio of suitable housing than that which the municipal council has access to in the General Housing Act, and that is where we propose to extend the existing possibilities for municipal, voluntary-based provision of private rental accommodation, and there we remove some of the limitations of the Law on Municipal Authorizing Law that will allow municipalities to make voluntary agreements to private landlords who want to make housing available for housing social tasks, and this is an agreement-based arrangement that we will evaluate in 2025. In view of the fact that in 2020 there were two new residential areas covered by the requirement to implement a development plan, respectively Nørager in Sønderborg and Solbakken in Odense, an additional half billion kroner will be allocated from the Landsbygningsfonden to ensure renovation and physical transformation in the residential areas. Finally, I would just like to thank the parties to the agreement for a good course and good discussions along the way, and I look forward to the discussion here and the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164043	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164047	In other words, we now have a new category of residential areas, prevention areas where preventive action is needed. I understand that the language police have been involved in this matter and have come to the conclusion that you can no longer use that g-word; yes, you can do that anyway, but you should avoid it, and I think that is progress. I would like to hear the Minister for Housing, if there should be such signs standing by those areas, so that you know what you are driving into, that is to say that you are now driving into a prevention area. When I look at what is being offered to those areas of prevention, I think it is a little thin. In other words, we want to introduce compulsory use of flexible rentals, we want to tighten up the rules for local authorities and we want to allow the demolition of housing in these areas to be authorised. If you think only in terms of spatial planning, you can imagine that this is something, but why has it not been more based on the people who live in those areas and to whom a housing social effort could be targeted?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164151	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164154	Well, I do think that flexible rental is one of the tools that has worked very well, and I also think it is really a pity that it comes from Enhedslisten, whose own former formidable social mayor in the City of Copenhagen has thus developed that tool and managed to implement it. If you look at Enhedslisten's prints on political Denmark and especially housing policy, this is one of the things that Enhedslisten has actually changed, i.e. the introduction of flexible rentals. I think we should be proud and safe; we should raise the flag and say: this is our proposal, it is our local people in Copenhagen who have invented this scheme. There is no reason at all to wreck it and pretend it is a bad arrangement. I think it can mean a great deal to how the housing mix is going to be in many vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164241	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164245	It is as if you have the thinking that just like restricting who moves into those areas, you get the problem diluted so that it is not a problem. I mean, I really think that people who live there should be taken as their starting point. If you think it is too much for there to be so many unemployed, why not make an effort there? And when you have experience that housing social work is so good and that's something that Enhedslisten would like to patent (The Minister for Home Affairs and Housing No, you can't!), it's ours fully... I'd actually rather have it than the package that the Home Secretary was trying to give me.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164318	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164319	I'm sorry for the interruption. I would say that it is of course important to concentrate social and integration problems. Of course, people cannot be integrated into an area of 82 per cent. of the population has a background in the Middle East. What should they be integrated into if only 18% have Danish background? That doesn't make any sense. And in the same way, if you want people to work, then it is an advantage that they can see that those they meet around the residential area are also at work, instead of everyone being outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164354	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164357	Thank you. Sometimes I read the Party history of the Socialists to see if they have always been as they are today and they haven't. I would like to say that if one of the former socialist socialists were to be taken at odds, she or he would say that for preventive work there is t giving people real opportunities to earn their own money, to get an education, so that the young people have something sensible to do. I now mentioned the football club at Silkeborg, where the young people come to have a proper leisure time, and also that a crime-preventive effort is being made where necessary. A Social Democrat from the 1960s and 1970s would be talking about this, and it turns out that as a society we have profited from the fact that it has been set in motion in many places when it has been used properly. This means that integration into the labour market is at least as important. I am not saying that it is either or, but I say that there must also be an old-fashioned or more fundamental classical integration effort and preventive action, because prevention is a very good word in many contexts, including here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164509	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164510	Look, I feel the other way around about Enhedslisten. I think that the Enhedslisten is so sensible today compared with the 1960s and 1970s, where the Soviet Union was supported, so it has only gone the right way. However, I fully agree that preventive action is essential. A large amount has been set aside • 380 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164605	Now we have to be careful not to demonize too much. Firstly, the Enhedslisten did not exist at the time the Soviet Union existed, so it is a physical and historical impossibility that the Enhedslisten as such has supported the Soviet Union. I'd say 80%, 90%, 95%. of the people who are in the Enhedslisten were barely adults at the time and had thought of a political idea. So we have to be careful about this kind of thing. We are a few that the rapporteur would like to scold for all sorts of things, but surely we cannot scold young people for such things. Therefore, I would like to go back to the Danish reality and say: if we can get a little more real preventive classical prevention work in residential areas where there may be housing social problems, then that would be really, really good. Then together could find a program.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164654	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164655	All I'm gonna do is yell at mr. Christian Juhl and surroundings. I believe that there are good conditions for creating prevention through social efforts. I believe that among the most important efforts is the possibility for young people whose parents may never have been in work to get out and get leisure jobs in real jobs and experience what it means to be part of the community with the duties and rights that it provides to be at work. I believe that it is very positive to say about all the sporting activities, that is, the fact that young people can come out and be part of voluntary association life. So I fully support that, and I believe that we are giving priority to that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164738	No one else has asked to speak, so we thank the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164759	The debate is open, and the first speaker is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164809	Thank you, President. This bill proposes that the building law should include requirements for the climate impact of buildings, for example. by measuring the overall climate impact of buildings or ensuring documentation of problematic substances in building materials. The proposal is the implementation of parts of an agreement of March on a national strategy for sustainable construction which reduces the climate impact and resource consumption of construction. The bill guarantees the legal basis of the building law to impose requirements on the climate impact of buildings. As from 2023 requirements will be introduced into the building regulations, and we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is essential for the political side to make building work more sustainable at home. The green transition is a key priority for most of the parties in the Folketing, and we have an ambition that the green transition should also take place in the construction process. Social democracy therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164901	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This is open to the next rapporteur, Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012164917	Thank you. It was climate partnerships that became this agreement. The Left is in favour of a sustainable and green transition to a green transition that embraces both citizens and business: starting point, conditions and reality. So when we believe that climate policy is also a green change in Danish industry, we do so wisely. We want to develop our profession, not to dismantle, in a way that we see far and where we want to secure the future. That is why we entered into the National Strategy for Sustainable Construction together with a broad majority of the Danish Parliament, and here I would like to thank you for the good dialogue, which was where there was a great willingness to extend far from the side of the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. It was in the spring of 2021. The proposal, as we are discussing it today, translates precisely parts of this agreement. The Left is in favour of moving construction in a more sustainable and holistic direction. This is actually absolutely necessary so that the sector not only supports our climate targets, but that it promotes innovation and ensures new opportunities for Danish construction. For the Left, it is important to ensure that the building sector here in Denmark, but also the large production that Danish companies have abroad, exports, so that Danish companies do not lag behind sustainable construction. Denmark and Danish companies must win on the green transition, so when we want to promote the green conversion in construction, we also place emphasis on ensuring training opportunities for young people, securing jobs and securing export earnings to Denmark. It makes sense to start off with the voluntary sustainability class, where we phase requirements into the building regulations for the buildings' climate impressions, and where we can make demands on lac calculations in the future, and CO2 The construction sector in Denmark is large and plays an important role, putting its impact on the climate. Therefore, it makes sense to work with life cycle assessment, CO2 For the Left, it has been important that it is a question of testing, evaluating and phasing in the agreement, involving relevant actors, and also that it is ensured at a rate where there is a momentum, but where it is also a question of getting everyone involved: that it is a balance, that it is a proportionality and that both large and small companies are embraced when we develop and set the framework to get the whole building sector involved. For the Left, it has also been crucial that we were met in relation to the new demands that will be made in the future and that will have to take place financially responsiblely, that financial burdens be removed, so that the additional costs imposed are eliminated elsewhere. That must go with the proposal. This is crucial if we are to continue to support the green transition and, above all, if we want to make the small and medium-sized players in the construction sector participate. And that is what we in the Left want, because there is a real concern that we do not ensure that the tools that are needed are properly worked out, we will lose support, actors and jobs. So it's important when we implement the new requirements. Then it is also important that this is done operationally and clearly. That is also something that has been emphasised in some of the consultation responses we have received. And then we should also be aware that this has clear lines of EU legislation in the framework set at EU level, in relation to taxonomy and to the construction product regulation. So there are a lot of elements that need to be considered further into this process. Finally, there are also elements in some of the consultation answers that we have received here in the draft law, where there are good new, additional proposals, for example. One of the interest groups mentions a de minimis threshold, which I can also see from the Ministry being addressed as one of the things that will be looked at in the legislative text. But in any case we are looking forward to a constructive committee procedure. Those were the words of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165430	Thank you to the rapporteur. It has not given rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165438	Thank you, President. After all, the bill results in an agreement from 2021 in which the Danish People's Party is involved, and it actually landed very sensibly, because the requirements for the construction industry are phased in over a longer period up to 2029, so that the industry will have time to adapt. Fortunately, some parties did not succeed in implementing all or nothing demands from 2023. It can easily become such a desk exercise for theorists, where one demands to get things introduced quickly without knowing how. The conversion has to be done by someone. The calculations must be made, the materials must be modernised and made sustainable, and this takes time. It is not a desk socialist who is going to do it, for they sit theorizing in the monk cell rather than being on the construction site. It will be engineers, craftsmen, designers and many more who will be responsible for the people with a built-in and practical approach to this green transition. Therefore, Dansk Folkeparti is also pleased that a two-year test phase has been agreed, where the economy among others. I need clarification. Furthermore, it is excellent that we meet every two years in the contract circle to discuss the limit values on the basis of these test results and the progress that I hope has been made. A planned and bombastic approach would have been very bad for the construction industry. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165628	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government and the other parties for being part of this agreement, which aims to translate parts of the political agreement on sustainable construction that we negotiated last spring. With the agreement, we support the long-term and sustainable conversion of the construction sector. This is very good and an important part of the green transition. The draft law establishes the legal basis for the building law to lay down a number of sustainability requirements for new buildings. For example: This is important if we are to achieve the objective of the Climate Act of 70% reduction by 2030. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165731	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165745	Thank you for the floor. In accordance with the agreement reached on national strategy for sustainable construction, Radicals welcome the bill, which introduces legal basis into the Building Act to assess the overall climate impact of the building, setting requirements for total economic analysis, requirements for documentation of the use of resources at the construction site, including, for example, transport, energy and water consumption, requirements for documentation of problematic substances in building materials. So Radicals are very proud of the outcome of cooperation with the other parties and the government, but our green ambitions do not stop here, and we look forward to the negotiations in the second framework, with the housing project, where we see the possibility of building that can pave the way for green construction at all. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012165903	I can't help thinking about the process that's been around what came before this. The government came up with a proposal for a strategy for sustainable construction in December 2020, and it was exciting to see that there were actually a lot of actors in the construction sector who said: We really want some higher ambitions than what the Minister of Housing has brought. We had a very good process in the Housing Committee, where we got a hearing on our feet, even though there was corona, and it was a little difficult to conduct it digitally. It was a rather special experience, because virtually all the actors in the building industry said: We want something better; can't you make a better deal than what has been put forward? And it was a very good input to get before you had to go to negotiations. We often have some debates here in the Folketing, which we then just go to, but here we had a common experience that the builders would actually like something more to be done than what was available. There was then an exciting process in which we negotiated that there should be stricter requirements, and now we have a bill that introduces life cycle assessments and CO2 It is something else if it is a municipal building. So I actually think that we are dealing with something here that can really be implemented more quickly, which is what is required. One thing that is not included in the bill and that is not in the agreement in earnest is the issue of bringing the renovations. It is necessary that we arrive at some good agreements for the renovations carried out in Denmark. It is about half of the building materials used to renovate housing with, compared to what is used in the new building, so that is very important. It is also very important to arrive at the extent to which one chooses to recycle a building material. The agreement we concluded provides for overall assessments to be carried out in the case of renovations and for reporting to be carried out with a focus on safe and healthy reuse in the building industry, and for a report to be made on the promotion of climate-friendly building materials. So we have something that is being worked on and that should form the basis for us to come up with something that has to do with renovations and that tightens the requirements. In fact, I am sure that much more renovations could be carried out in municipalities and regions if the plant ceiling were relaxed. We also need tools to make sure that we can sharpen our climate targets. It may seem ambitious that we should reduce by 70%. By 2030, however, there are critics who have been out to say that the 70-percent target is not enough to live up to the Paris agreement. And I very much hope that the Climate Council will voluntarily go in and review what we have adopted so far and try to see if it is true that we should raise the percentage by 2030. And if that is the case, we need to act in several areas and that we get the focus on where it is then we can achieve CO2 So there are some pluses if you get renovations done in the right way. Then I think that this legislation also means that there will be a certain kind of building that is being promoted. Some people think it is very important that it is technology-neutral and everything else, but as an old carpenter I just want to say that I am glad that I can see the outlines of how this will lead to more wood construction, because it is a good solution both in terms of climate and indoor climate. So I think this is a good bill, which is mostly about new construction, and in the first place new construction over 2,000 m2, and I am sure that this bill will have an impact on what kind of construction is being developed in Denmark in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170354	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170403	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank you for the previous rapporteur. It was a pleasure to hear Enhedslisten's speech here, and it's not that often I say it, but I just want to say that here, because it was a really good summary of how this whole process has been. And I was actually quite happy to have it referred to, because it was an important agreement that most parties helped to conclude here in March on a national strategy for sustainable construction. It is an agreement in which Conservatives just worked for clear targets for less CO2 It is also an agreement in which construction can see itself and where we balance the cost of conversion so that the new requirement is matched by relaxations elsewhere. It is an agreement that makes construction greener and provides a longer-term framework for an ambitious transition, where Denmark becomes a pioneering country in the transition to more sustainable construction by making climate demands. There were elements of which we would have liked more, and that is also why I am pleased with Mr Beazley's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen's speech, for it was among other things. renovation and energy saving. But all in all we were well satisfied and have therefore been looking forward to discussing the bill itself, and I know that many in the construction industry are just tripping to get started, which is why I am not going to say any more right now just that I look forward to the committee work and that Conservatives are voting in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170517	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen for New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170526	Thank you. We're actually positive about elements of this. The issue of protecting against harmful substances for the environment is absolutely good, but putting unnecessary bureaucracy and increased costs on to business and construction we do not like. That's why we're not going to support this bill. We're not in the deal either. I am rather surprised that when I read down the bill it says that one does not really know if it has any economic implications for business, but one will find out later. I think that is simply a bad thing. I'll tell you what. I do not think that we should adopt legislative proposals in here where we have not calculated or estimated. I am well aware that we cannot get very close to what it has to do with economic consequences for business. I think that is something that needs to be sharper. So it's always like that when you make these estimates, that's how it's gonna be. It also says that implementation will entail costs for the industry, and I believe that this should be included in the legislative proposal, so that it gives an honest and real picture of what the situation is going to be for business.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170656	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170707	Thank you. I would just like to say thank you, first of all, for the good progress we had on the sustainable construction strategy. It is true that the last speaker on the platform here is not included in the agreement, but that is by far the majority, and I think that is a sign that there is a will to create a green transition and that something has also been struck here that everyone can see themselves in the debate also with the remarks that were around in the rapporteurs. After all, the purpose of the amendments to the Building Act is to implement the agreement we made on 5 March this year, namely a national strategy for sustainable construction, thus ensuring a green conversion of construction. The draft law ensures that the building law provides for the possibility of imposing requirements on the climate impact of buildings when requirements are to be introduced into the building regulations from 2023, based on the experience of the voluntary sustainability class. I am, of course, available to answer the question in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170828	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170851	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012170902	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. Denmark is a pioneer country when it comes to public digital solutions, but we also need to ensure that the systems we use are reliable and provide the individual with a better overview and security of everyday life. Through the digital mail, we get everything from letters from the bank and calls for studies at the hospital to warnings about future noise nuisances, if for example. Banedanmark needs to repair rails close to where we live. We Danes depend on the digital mail to work, but it must also be easy, it must be straightforward and it must be safe to use. That is why, on 30 November, we will have a new digital post solution in Denmark, because we must keep up with time. Today, we have to deal with a legislative proposal that allows us to introduce a transition period for the transition between the current digital post solution and the new digital post solution. The conversion period shall be introduced when switching the digital mail provider and when switching from the previous IT system of e-Boks A/S to the new IT system operated by Netcompany. Then it is also important to note again today that, with the transition to the new mail solution, we take home the data responsibility to the Digitalisation Authority, the strategic ownership is taken home, and the decision-making competence too. And then, with this bill, we will also make sure that we move the citizens' and companies' posts. With the legislative proposal, we must introduce the possibility of a transitional period of four days so that authorities, companies and suppliers can carry out the work that could not be done without temporarily closing down, and during the transitional period it will not be possible to send or receive digital mail, but as a citizen you will be able to access already received digital mail during the period. It is also important to note that the legislation not only allows for a transitional period this once, but also between future shifts of suppliers. It says itself that it means careful planning for senders and recipients of digital mail not to be able to receive and send for a period of time. What is happening, for example? with deadlines, answers to enquiries and the like? That is why legal certainty must be at the top of the list for the individual citizen, and that is one of the things that is clear from the consultation responses to the legislative proposal we are now considering. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are very pleased that the deadlines of citizens and companies are being extended during the transition period, so that there are no unfortunate situations with excessive deadlines which citizens cannot avoid. A high level of information is important, and we therefore note with satisfaction that all citizens and companies will be informed directly in the Digital Post, at about one month's notice, about the transition period, as well as the public senders are encouraged to organise their posting of mail with care, especially in relation to digitally challenged citizens. By adopting this law, we protect the legal certainty of the Danes in the transition between the current digital mail solution to the new and also to future supplier changes. In the Social Democratic Party we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171213	Thank you to the rapporteur. It has not given rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171220	Thank you for the floor. Our world is becoming more and more digital, which is why, of course, we also need to update our IT systems and make an active effort to keep up with developments. Of course, it's a nuisance, and this bill is an expression of that. However, we agree with the proposal because it is necessary. However, we have taken note of some of the consultation responses, for example, there are organisations that need further qualification and clarification of the proposal's comments, including whether it is possible to set a maximum limit for the temporary cessation of the operation of digital mail. Danske Regioner also points out that the transition period will have significant consequences for the regions as they will not be able to call patients for emergency treatment during the period. Similarly, Danske A-banker expresses concern not to be able to send mail to their members during the given period, which will conflict with their automatic systems. Last but not least, it is a key point that the transition period must take place with particular regard to weak and older citizens, who, after all, are also at risk of experiencing negative consequences or burdens due to the change. That is why, in the committee procedure, we will try to work the draft law towards avoiding as many nuisances as possible, but with an awareness that they cannot be completely avoided. However, we will try to ask some questions about how we can ensure that the shortcomings, genes and problems of those who depend on digital mail become as small as possible, and we look forward to a good and constructive dialogue with the government on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171410	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171421	Thank you. There is no doubt that we need digital communication methods and digital mail, which are safe and reliable and workable. Some time ago we had the discussion here in the Chamber about the supply and the new supplier, and what this is about today is, in many ways, the tiny period in which one has to switch from one system to another. It sets up a framework for this and, as has also been mentioned, the challenge in it is how to do it in the best possible way, in the most secure way possible for the citizens affected by this. What is absolutely crucial, and you can also read this in the consultation answers, is that proper information comes out in as good a time as possible to all those who suffer, so that you know what you are facing; that there is an extension of time in relation to deadlines that may expire; and, not least, that for those who have a digital difficulty in one way or another, it may be older, it may be disabled, it may be other groups • is an opportunity to contact someone, an emergency call of some kind, so that you can be sure that you can get the advice and guidance that you need. Because you can be worried if you don't get your approval, your permission or anything. So, during that transition period, we must be absolutely sure that we have it under control. I can also see in the draft law that it is proposed to try to get it right, but we will certainly use the committee work to ensure that this is actually taken seriously and that the weakest are also taken seriously, because it is those who are the Danish People's Party's concern that the rest will manage. But there is a group there that needs us to take care of them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171610	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF, who would like to come up here now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171622	Thank you. The bill provides for the introduction of a temporary transition period with a change in the operation of Digital Post when the Digital Post supplier is switched to a new IT system. SF believes that it makes good sense to ensure a proper transition to the new postal solution, and we note that the consultation responses are also generally positive. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is essential for the SF that the legal position of the citizens should not deteriorate, which is, among other things, the case. The Elders case and the Council of Social Affairs Ministers also point out. The organisations also point out the importance of ensuring that citizens feel secure in what they can and must be able to enter into dialogue with the authorities. The SF therefore calls on the Minister to engage in the necessary dialogue with relevant authorities and actors, as well as to ensure that the information and guidance material mentioned in the consultation note is sufficiently clear and clear, in other words understandable to all parties. We can therefore support the bill and believe that it will be an effective solution for all citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171734	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Thorholm from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171748	Thank you for the floor. Radical Left backs the bill, which allows for the decommissioning of the Digital Post IT system when switching to a new supplier. We have noted in consultation answers from several parties that a maximum time limit for shutting down a system is being proposed, and we look forward to discussing this in the forthcoming committee's work. We also stress that measures have been taken to ensure the legal certainty of citizens. The Radical Left notes that there are digitally vulnerable citizens to whom special attention must be paid and which must be given some attention by the authorities. It can, for example, be done. be with better telephone contact during the closed days if the shut-down days have an impact on the processing process. There will be two major digital changes here in 2021, where digitally exposed citizens will acquire both MitID and Digital Post. For this reason, the Radical Left stresses that the Minister gives priority to the fact that IT systems are accessible to the many people who are digitally exposed, such as the homeless, the elderly or the disabled. We also note that KOMBIT writes that the period from 25 to 30 November coincides with the fact that the benefit system sends out 160,000 performance specifications, which is a vulnerable period for this particular target group. We look forward to the work of the committee, and the Radical Left supports the bill. Finally, I would like to say that I am delighted to be standing here on the platform of the Danish Parliament for the first time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171942	Many thanks to the radical rapporteur and congratulations on the virginity. The next rapporteur is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012171949	Thank you. The Enhedslisten supports the bill and we have noted that there are among others. is a response from the Council of Social Affairs Ministers, which points out that during the transitional period we must pay particular attention to digitally weak citizens. I think it is important that when you have such four special days, when all systems do not work properly, you also manage to deal in a humane way with what may be of unforeseen problems.Sometimes, when you are dealing with planned computer changes, there are times when you are dealing with computer changes so that you do not get involved in some citizens being punished unnecessarily hard because the public has reorganised its IT systems. I do not really know whether this is something that can be better ensured in the legislative proposal. Because it is a little special if you have to make legislation that allows something to be different from what the law says. So a certain amount of rubber band in relation to enforcement afterwards I actually think would be beneficial to ensure. It may sound a little vague, but I think it's human, since it's the big system that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172107	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172116	Thank you, President. I shall be brief on behalf of our rapporteur, Katarina Ammitzbøll. For us, it has been particularly important that the transition period is as short and as gentle as possible, especially for our older citizens and others, who may have a little difficulty with the digital transformation. Here we are concerned with the answers to the hearings, which include: is leading up to the possibility of telephone contact. However, Conservatives certainly support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172148	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172152	Yes, I am the rapporteur for everything. I'll be brief. New citizens can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172159	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. No brief comments were made. The next speaker must be the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172209	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive reception and for their good contributions. And I look forward to the fact that we can delve into the many quite relevant issues that have been raised today in the course of the committee procedure. Denmark is one of the world's leading countries when it comes to digitising the public sector. This is also one of the reasons why for the second time in a row Denmark has been elected world champion of public digitalisation in the UN. The citizens' digital meeting with the public must work optimally, which is why it is also important that Danes continue to experience Digital Post as a good and secure solution. I am pleased to hear that there is support for a transition period in the days leading up to the launch of the new digital post solution. The conversion period must help ensure that Danes have access to their existing digital mail from the public sector immediately after the launch of the new postal solution. We must take account of the citizens and businesses who benefit from the digital postal solution and, in the four days of the changeover, their legal position should not be different from that of the others. Let me therefore also take this opportunity to stress that the authorities must do as much as possible to ensure a smooth transition. Citizens and businesses can access their current digital mailboxes throughout the transition period and read their mail, but will not be able to receive new mail from public senders and will not be able to send mail to the public. In order not to put the Danes at a disadvantage, the deadlines in letters which may be delayed due to the period of conversion will be extended accordingly. In addition, it is stressed to the authorities that they must take into account the conversion days in question where digital mail cannot be sent and received. And the authorities are also encouraged to use alternative means of contact, for example. call the citizens if there is something urgent. In order for everything to proceed smoothly and smoothly, the transition period will be communicated directly to the citizens and to the public senders so that we are prepared as best we can. And the period will also be as short as possible. It is scheduled to last from Friday through Monday over the last weekend in November. Most messages are sent in Digital Post on weekends. I look forward to answering the good and very relevant questions that have already been raised here during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172443	Thank you very much to the Minister for Finance. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172505	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172521	Thank you. This bill translates parts of the birthright agreement of April this year, where we among other things. made a much needed tightening up of the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is reasonable to demand that a number of demands should be met if you as a foreigner wish to become a national of Denmark, just as we think it is reasonable to expect a certain knowledge of Denmark and Danish values, and that you have actively demonstrated the ability and willingness to become a part of our communities before you are granted your Danish citizenship. The draft law contains, among other things: the following initiatives: to abolish the present lax access for, inter alia, naturalised Nordic citizens between 18 and 23 years to declare themselves Danish; that children of Danish-minded Southern Schleswigers resident in Sydslesvig or Kiel Municipality must be able to obtain Danish citizenship as a secondary to a parent if it can be demonstrated that the child has been in Danish school or day-care institution in Sydslesvig or in Kiel Municipality for at least 1 year; to lay down the detailed rules on the establishment and compliance of the citizenship test, so that five further questions on Danish values are asked; to introduce an authorisation so that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration can lay down detailed rules on the settlement of the constitutional ceremonies, including the requirement that the mayor or the alder give a handshake. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172644	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one is for Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172649	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is satisfied that the handshaking ceremonies can now be carried out in a way that will make it impossible to shake hands with someone of a sex whom you do not want to touch. I think it makes sense to tighten the rules. That is one of the reasons why it has been mentioned at all. Now the Minister is given the authority to set up some kind of system so that it becomes more difficult, but as I understand the system, it is still possible to put away two people at the ceremonies, i.e. both a mayor and an alderman. Will it not then suggest that the municipalities can say: we do not want to put any new Danish citizens in a position where they have to shake hands with someone who has a gender that they do not like to touch, so we put a man and a woman, and then they have to choose for themselves? Or does the rapporteur think that this regulation is out of the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172749	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172751	I believe that these are good rules and I believe that there have been very few examples of an official being appointed to do so, as has also been the case in the press. I think we have been very clear about it being an alderman or mayor. Of course, one is not supposed to be able to avoid one of the opposite sex. I don't know if this is going on anywhere. The only thing I have seen is that in some places it has not been taken seriously enough and has not been submitted with a mayor, but it is very, very few places. Otherwise, it'll work fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172814	Here you go for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172817	I think it is a problem if you are still allowed to ask two people, because then a municipality that does not want to make the demands of the new citizens that I think you should make, namely that they should be able to shake hands with everyone, whoever it is, with one of each sex, namely a mayor and a councilman. I just think that little cat lady shouldn't be there. I think I need to get out of here. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur thinks it is gone now or whether it still exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172849	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172850	I have no knowledge of municipalities that try to do such a trick in this way. I know that there are some municipalities that have very, very many new Danish citizens, among others. The City of Copenhagen, which has set up with all the mayors, but of course not for the purpose of avoiding shaking hands with someone from the opposite sex. It is more because there have been so many at the ceremony that you have put forward with the top representatives you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172910	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172912	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Lars Aslan Rasmussen for the speech. I would just like to hear why the Social Democratic Party considers it necessary to make it even more difficult for young Nordic citizens who have obtained citizenship by declaration to obtain Danish citizenship by declaration. I mean, it is, of course, a declaration access which has not, as such, been used violently. I believe that last year there were eight citizens who were given citizenship in that way. But why make it more difficult for young people, who are part of our Nordic community and who have acquired citizenship there, to obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012172954	It's because among other things. Sweden has a slightly more relaxed approach than Denmark does. This is true both in relation to how many citizenships they give out, but also how lenient it is and how easy it is to actually get it compared to in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173010	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173011	Thus, the rapporteur believes that there is a difference between Swedes, depending on whether it is Swedes born in Sweden or Swedes who have obtained citizenship through a declaration access.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173023	It is clear that you have to tighten up and make some other rules when you have a neighbouring country that gives citizenship in a completely different way and to a very large extent than we do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173034	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173036	I think that is a strange policy. Now we are some in the Nordic Council, including the rapporteur's own colleagues, working for an open Nordic region. We are actually working to break down border barriers; every year we break down border barriers. Now some others must start building border barriers. I just don't understand. We have had a really, really good relationship where we help each other and where we trust each other's authorities and each other's way of managing society so much. But my question is about something else. I am very surprised that in such a pile as this one, with all the good things from the sea, a proposal which I myself have been involved in working with in the Committee on South Schleswig, namely on access for children of Danish-minded South Schleswigers to become Danish citizens as a secondary person, is suddenly being wrapped up. Why do all this stuff have to be messed up? This means that you can vote against a great deal which you think is good things. I think that the government's policy is increasingly marked by the fact that it should all be mixed up in a boiled-up dish instead of having snot and beard for oneself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173147	First of all, I would like to say that my colleagues who take part in the Nordic Council agree with this policy. We have had it up at the Socialist Group meeting. I think it is easy to work for an open Nordic region without necessarily agreeing with Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl. I think this is a false contradiction compared to this citizenship thing. And if, in the Enhedslisten, you think there are some good things and some bad things, then I can hope that you may choose to abstain.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173210	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173211	Now I've been discussing our dream with a lot of Nordic social partners. Personally, I am in favour of the idea of a Nordic Union, but it has long, long prospects if we are now going to block in a number of important areas. The rapporteur just wanted to know how complicated it is already to break down border barriers and improve the open exchange in the labour market and elsewhere in the Nordic region, and it is therefore a pity that something counterproductive is coming here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173252	I don't recognize that. I think we have fine cooperation between the Nordic countries, the Nordic governments and the Nordic social democracies. I shall not be able to tell you how you feel about Enhedslisten's sister parties in Scandinavia, but the Social Democracy has a fine cooperation with the other Nordic social democracies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173255	Thank you, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments on the Social Democratic Party, so the next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173316	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the parties behind the new agreement on citizenship, which is, of course, the basis for us today to be able to deal with first and, hopefully, to adopt this bill in a moment. After all, the bill aims to change a number of conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship as a direct consequence of the agreement we concluded to make more sensible and more stringent rules for granting Danish citizenship. And the Left's aim in discussing who should have Danish citizenship goes all the way back to Grundtvig, who, as you know, said: "To a people they all hear/as they count themselves there/have for the mother tongue ear/have for the fatherland fire. ▪ And it is to this day our aim when we here in the Danish Parliament are to determine what requirements are required to obtain Danish citizenship. Today's draft law contains a number of minor and a number of major changes. At the lower end is the abolition of access for naturalised Nordic citizens aged 18-23 to be able to obtain citizenship simply by declaration. It is a small change, but it is still a change that we can support. Because it doesn't make much sense that people who have acquired citizenship in Nordic countries, who have significantly relaxed rules than us, can subsequently obtain Danish citizenship just by declaration. They must also meet the same requirements as all others. One of the other minor but nevertheless important changes is that we are now changing and relaxing the rules for the children of Danish-minded Southern Schleswigers resident in either Sydslesvig or Kiel Municipality. We basically think it is reasonable that these children, who are Danish of mind, now also get easier to obtain Danish citizenship. Here, too, I can quote a good old giant, the former Prime Minister of the Left, Niels Neergaard, who, as you know, said in 1920 to the Danes who were left south of the border: 'They shall not be forgotten.' ▪ And I think that the action we are taking here today is another step towards fulfilling Niels Neergaard's promise to our Danish south of the border. One of the most important changes in this bill and one of the things that has been most important to the Left and for which we also fought the most in the agreement was that we are now changing the test of citizenship. We add five questions, which must be value-based and about Danish values, because in our optics it is not enough just to have knowledge of Danish history, Danish conditions, one must also show that one has taken the Danish values into account. That is why we think it is quite reasonable that five questions should now be added to the citizenship test, which deals with values, of which at least four out of five should be right in order to pass. In addition, we also change the rules on handshakes so that in future you cannot avoid handshaking a person of the opposite sex, but that it is the mayor or if you have an alderman in a larger municipality who makes himself available for a handshake, so that religious specialities cannot be taken into account, and so that the applicant cannot avoid handshaking a person of the opposite sex. It's gonna be one-way for the municipalities, so it's either the mayor or the alderman. This is a sensible tightening-up, which the Left has also argued for. So, all in all, it is a sensible proposal that implements large parts of the citizenship agreement we concluded earlier this year. That is why the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173701	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173703	When the Left now goes back to Neergaard in 1920 and quotes him, then I think there is a slightly long horizon on the Left's policy. I mean, it's 101 years. It's gonna take a while to remember things like that, I'll say. Could we not speed up the Left in terms of developing our policy? Another thing is that I don't want to comment on all the symbolic policy you're trying to build into this proposal. It is a terrible mess of symbolic political pressure in the hand and all sorts of other things superfluous. However, there is one thing that I think is bad, and that is when the rapporteur quotes Grundtvig. He says precisely as a point one that those who feel like Danish are Danish. And we have developed this down in South Schleswig in the agreement with Germany. It is not a question of mind control when some in Sydslesvig declare themselves to be Danish. Then they're Danish. Period. That's what you could learn a little from in Danish society instead of hunting for someone you don't like.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173811	I don't know if I actually heard any questions. I heard two comments. On the first point, I would like to say that there is no history if the Enhedslisten believes that the only thing that has been done in the Danish Parliament to honour Niels Neergaard's promise to them south of the border is this. In fact, I do not really think that is what Enhedslisten really means either. This is just proof that we have to work continuously not to forget the Danish minority south of the border. I think this is a sensible change, on which there was, of course, full agreement in the South Schleswig Committee. It was brought to the table, and there was agreement on it in the contract circle. I think that is quite reasonable. Compared to the quote by Grundtvig, I'm taking more of it with me than Mr. Christian Juhl did, because Grundtvig also says that one should have for the mother tongue ear and for the fatherland fire. This is among other things. some of what we now ensure by having strict language requirements and also by requiring that you have taken the Danish values into account if you want to be part of the Danish community. Fair demands right in Grundtvig's spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173915	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012173917	Now the rapporteur does not need to lecture me on the history of South Jutland or, for that matter, on the history of Schleswig. I know that one about someone. I myself helped put forward this proposal on the possibility for Southern Schleswigers to gain Danish citizenship, because this proposal came from the South Schleswig Committee and actually came from South Schleswig itself. I just think that when you quote Neergaard, you have a slightly long horizon on your policy. I just want to say that if you read Grundtvig, you shouldn't abuse him in cases like these. That is why I think it is appropriate to say how we deal with this in South Schleswig. There we take one point, and that is the essential point, namely that you feel like Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174009	But Southern Schleswigers are different from others who want Danish citizenship, precisely for historical reasons. I'm not gonna lecture Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl about it. I am not a torn-up myself, but I am married to a torn-up and married in South Jutland in the cathedral, which set the scene for the beautiful election poster, where there is a very well-known slogan from the election campaign back then. So I probably don't have the same first-hand knowledge of it as Mr. Christian Juhl, but I have married into a South Jutland family, and there I have a good impression. But I'm sure that sir... Christian Juhl is welcome to teach me a lot of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174047	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174047-2	Perhaps the same could be said about Nordic citizens to some extent. There is also a special community there. But if we were to stay at Grundtvig, I do not think that Grundtvig, in his wildest imagination, had imagined the string of demands now being made to obtain Danish citizenship, in other words, in relation to employment requirements, in relation to good intentions, in relation to language requirements, in relation to self-reliance, in relation to not having received speeding tickets. I do not think that even Grundtvig would have had the imagination to imagine what could now be thought of to set out of all kinds of demands. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left, because this seems like some kind of austerity that will never end: is the goal of the Left just that every time it has to be harder and more impossible to obtain citizenship? Or is there another reasonable view somewhere where the Left is also in the situation of saying that we have tightened enough, that is to say, this is the fair requirement in terms of obtaining citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174152	One thing I forgot to say to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl, and as I can say to Mr. Christian Juhl's party colleague is that if you want to support the part that concerns Southern Schleswigers, you could propose to split up the bill so that you can vote for the part that you want to support. We in the Left would like to support such a division if it were to be a wish from the Enhedslisten. For the Left, of course, everything is about a reasonable consideration. In the agreement on citizenship we have concluded, we have gone both ways. For some groups we have tightened up, for example. In relation to crime, you should stay on the narrow path of virtue, you should not have violated the rules of the community while we have relaxed the rules for others, such as the children of Southern Schleswigers. So on the Left side we are in favour of a balanced policy, but there are clearly areas where we do not think the rules are in target yet. We left people are never done, we're always on our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174238	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174239	Yeah, and I'm worried about that, but I'm not surprised after all. Now the rapporteur himself mentions the requirement of good repute, which has been tightened up in the new citizenship agreement here, and then says in the same context that there is some reasonable point in it too. So, what is it reasonable that a citizen who in his early youth has committed a stupidity which has led to a conditional or unconditional punishment cannot acquire citizenship 20 or 35 years later? Is there not some view of law also in the Left, in relation to the fact that there is, after all, also a waiting period for this type of wrongdoing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174321	The fair thing to Danish society, to the individual Dane, is that if you have violated the laws of society so seriously that you have been sentenced to a prison sentence, then of course you should not be rewarded with Danish citizenship afterwards. We think that is fair; we think that is fair. Could there be individual cases where we have to look at it individually and grant a derogation? Yes, there can be, and there is an opportunity for this in the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child. But it is basically quite fair to say that if you commit serious crime, you should not be rewarded with a Danish passport.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174355	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. There are no further brief comments, so we shall proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174405	L 42 concerns the changes to be introduced as a result of the agreement in the field of citizenship concluded in the spring. The Danish People's Party will support L 42, because we see it as sensible changes. It makes sense for questions about Danish traditions to enter the test of citizenship; it makes sense for it to be regulated how children of South Schleswigers who can obtain citizenship are made; and it makes sense for the declaration access for Nordic citizens to be removed. The Danish People's Party was involved in the negotiations on these things, but we were not in the final agreement because there were too many things that we could not get into the agreement, for example. that the Committee on Bodily Rights should have the opportunity to obtain information on people's religious background before granting an exemption, to divide the legislative proposals by country groups, so that the special MEAPT group of countries can have its own draft law and that a maximum number of annual awards of citizenship should be set. Since we could not get these demands through, we ended up standing outside the agreement, but the things that are in L 42 are things that we would have liked to have joined and that we were involved in negotiating and influencing. So we support the changes. There's just one little thing that worries me about the bill. I think it makes sense for the Minister to be given the authority to do the constitutional ceremonies in such a way that you cannot run around with it and avoid shaking hands with someone of a sex whom you do not like to touch. I do not think it is quite clear in the legislative proposal whether it will be possible or whether there will still be a possibility of two people being present from the municipality. Because it says there could be a mayor and an alderman. I hope it's a mayor or a councilman. I may not be able to read on the inside, but I would at least like to think that it is a good idea to get the wording straight, so that it is quite clear that you have to shake hands with the one you have previously been shown to shake hands with, no matter what sex you have, and that you cannot choose on the day itself to go to someone else who has a different sex, to whom you would rather shake hands. This is a good opportunity to clarify whether people are really able and willing to become part of the community that we have in Denmark, where we can easily shake hands with both men and women, even without gloves on and what else is. I hope to get an answer to it during the day or during the legislative process, but as I said, the Danish People's Party welcomes L 42. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174709	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174729	Thank you, President. Since our rapporteur, Mr. Carl Valentin, couldn't be here today, I promised to read his speech. The bill here is, of course, one of these pile proposals that is full of all good things from the sea, but since it is an implementation of an agreement, it may be reasonable. Nevertheless, I cannot help but regret that the pile model here prevents SF from voting in favour of the excellent proposal that there should be fewer documentation requirements for children of Danish-minded South Schleswig parents who apply for Danish citizenship with their parents. We very much hope that the bill can be split up so that the SF can vote for that part. The other proposals go from the slightly indifferent to the more general. In the indifference section, I can mention the tightening up of the handshake law. You will here take a law that the municipalities can report has no value or effect out there, and sharpen it up so to speak you want to multiply 0 by 0, and you don't have to be a mathematician to figure out what result you get from it. In the more general section, the proposal for a further narrowing of the group which can obtain citizenship by declaration is so that we are increasingly opposed to a process of citizenship, which alone is governed politically, rather than setting the framework. The SF doesn't like this development. You then bother people who want citizenship by asking, by increasing the fee, that they themselves pay for the roundos series we go on and make up in here. It's in the petty department, but it's still very significant for the nature of the bill. With those words, SF doesn't support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174929	There are no brief comments, so we thank the SF rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Susan Kronborg on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012174938	Thank you for the floor, President. The draft law put forward here by the government contains some restrictions on access to citizenship, but also a relaxation. Radicals disagree with the rigours, but we can support the relaxation of South Schleswig siders. We therefore do not support the whole proposal and will ask for us to be able to discuss in committee whether there could be a division of the legislative proposal. Radicals also do not support the proposal to abolish the present relaxed access of naturalised Nordic citizens between 18 and 23 years of age to declare themselves Danish. In this context, we would like to draw attention to the Institute for Human Rights, which in their response to the hearing refers to the fact that the requirement for Nordic citizens to have acquired their Nordic citizenship at birth has been abolished in Norway and Sweden on the basis of the principle laid down in Article 5 (1). 2 of the European Convention on Civil Liberties. And that article is about equal treatment. Radicals also do not support the point of five additional questions about Danish values in the test. And we are also opposed to the part which concerns the authorisation of the Minister to lay down rules on handshakes. In this context, we would also very much like to call for the removal of a spit on the palm of the hand, as in the Hjallerup Market. That is such preventive labelling. Furthermore, the draft law aims to increase the fee to be paid by submitting an application for Danish citizenship in order to finance the costs associated with the increased administration. That part of the proposal is also opposed by radicals, and we ask whether it is true that there is an increase in administrative expenditure and whether there are, if so, several years' work on the task. Can the Minister prove that there is an increase in the cost of additional annual work so that the fee income corresponds to the administrative costs, or is the situation in which a fee is set up, fails to employ several years' work and thus effectively requires additional payment as remuneration for an extended processing period? In conclusion, Radicals find it very positive that legislation is being introduced at all in the area of citizenship, and Radicals will call for the Minister to give strong consideration to further legislation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175242	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175245	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Susan Kronborg for her speech. In general terms, I agree with the content of the speech. But I was a little worried when I saw the radicals' political rapporteur, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, said that the rules which were too permanent and for the acquisition of citizenship today, radicals could broadly support, as they are the expression of common sense, I think he called it. And I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is not the case that Radicals support the current rules in order to obtain citizenship and permanent residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175331	Thank you very much for the interesting question, sir. Peder Hvelplund. I would very much like to point out that if you want to hear what Mr. Andreas Steenberg is of the opinion, so the question is put to Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175349	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175352	I am, of course, happy to do so, but I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that what the rapporteur has said here today is an expression of the radical position.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175402	Thank you very much for the question. Yes, it is the attitude of radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175410	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175425	Thank you. Yeah, here we are again. Once again, we need to have a debate on how big a gift the bourgeoisie is. At least according to the government and the other parties involved in the most recent agreement on citizenship, citizenship must be regarded as a gift, and it must be nearly impossible to obtain citizenship at all, and it is now difficult to see how it is at all relevant to all citizens who are not born with citizenship to apply for it, because the criteria have gradually become so strict. For those who are fortunate enough to have dual citizenship, the government is not afraid to introduce rules on how to deprive one of one's Danish citizenship if one does not comply with the rules of society. I guess citizenship isn't that big a gift. The changes we are discussing here today are designed to make it even harder for the few who are getting through the needle's eye to obtain citizenship, a citizenship that is the prerequisite for obtaining full civil rights in society; a citizenship that people who have been born and raised in this country may never ever achieve, just because they have made a small mistake as teenagers, or because they have a disability, or because they have been abandoned by the system throughout their lives. Now we are going to make it even more expensive to obtain citizenship. We must ensure that we have control of our minds in the new test of birth, so that we are sure that those who seek believe the same as either the Social Democrats or the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance. For it is apparently only the national conservative and bourgeois-liberal values that make one a worthy citizen. And we should not be fooled by even stricter detailed regulation of the famous and completely indifferent handshake ceremony or by regulating the relaxed access of the eight Nordic citizens who applied for citizenship by declaration last year. It just doesn't make any sense. It is very, very difficult to obtain citizenship in Denmark, and there should be no doubt that we in the Enhedslisten believe that the rules that apply today in order to obtain citizenship are far too tight. In fact, we would like several of those who live here and live their lives here to become full members of the Danish community, which you become when you become a Danish citizen. However, for many of the parties of the Folketing, the question of who can acquire citizenship has been politicised to an extreme degree. A citizenship is perceived and it has also been promoted in the course of the debate here today as a noble gift and not as what is, namely a right acquired by living in Denmark and being part of the Danish society. In contrast, in many of the countries with which we compare, the acquisition of citizenship is an administrative act in which the applicant can apply on the basis of clearly formulated, transparent criteria. That is not the case in Denmark. As you know, it is the Danish Parliament that is adopting a bill on citizenship, but a road ticket or a bill of lading can make it possible to lose the right to citizenship, at least temporarily, and while in most other countries we usually compare ourselves to, you would get a reasoned refusal and have the opportunity to complain about elections, that is not the case here in Denmark. In a rule of law there must be transparency and it must be clear what is the basis for the decisions that are being taken. For us, it is an independent goal that the people who live here in Denmark, who integrate, become part of Denmark and live their lives here, because in this way they become full members of the community that is here in the country. I think that will actually bring us closer to each other and no longer apart. We certainly do not want a large group of people to live in Denmark who are not Danish citizens and who cannot participate on an equal footing with the rest of us, for example. in relation to voting for the Folketing. Unfortunately, however, we are heading towards a society in which a growing group of people must live here with the rest of us without having the full civil rights that belong to the red beet passport. This is a worrying development which Enhedslisten would like to help reverse both by making it easier to obtain permanent residence permits, but in fact also by making it easier and more transparent to obtain Danish citizenship. The unitary list cannot therefore support L 42.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175902	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175906	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would actually like to ask a few questions about the general policy of Enhedslisten on the granting of citizenship. Let me take one example: if you are convicted of rape, should you be able to become a Danish citizen afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175927	Yeah, I think you definitely should be able to do that. Well, it's like in Denmark that we have a legal tradition that if you commit a crime and you have endured your punishment, the board, if you can say so, is wiped clean, and therefore you must also have the opportunity to obtain citizenship. After all, even citizens who have committed rape may later turn out to be rehabilitated and to regret the act they have committed, and they can therefore also become citizens, just as Mr. Morten Dahlin and I, in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012175958	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180000	Thank you for the very honest answer that Enhedslisten believes that rapists should be able to become Danish citizens. I would like to ask what Enhedslisten thinks of people convicted of terrorism: if you have been convicted of terrorism, should you be able to become a Danish citizen or if you have been convicted of supporting terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180022	In other words, it is already the case today that, even under the conventions, citizens who have committed, for example, can be deprived of their rights. terrorism, their citizenship. But basically, I think that this discussion should instead be about and about what the criteria are for obtaining citizenship: how should it be possible to become a full member of society? For becoming a citizen means that you have the opportunity to vote for a parliamentary election, but that is no guarantee that you will not commit crime later. Nor is it a guarantee that you will not become a terrorist later on. It has nothing to do with citizenship. That alone has something to do with what rights you have as a citizen who lives and lives in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180102	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180106	The rapporteur said, as far as I understood, that this bill allows for mind-control of those seeking citizenship, because there are now five additional questions in the test of citizenship requiring people to have knowledge of Danish traditions. I mean, you have to show that you have knowledge that, for example, there is. is freedom of religion, freedom of expression and gender equality in Denmark. That is the kind of tradition you want to ask about. How does the rapporteur define control of the mind? Because does the rapporteur seriously believe that it is mind-control to demand that people have knowledge of something that is part of ordinary social subjects in the Danish school?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180155	No, I think it would be good if part of becoming a citizen of Denmark included a course in democratic rights, that is, both rights and obligations in Danish society. But why it should be possible to make it a condition that you know who has written the Golden Horns or when the first Olsen gang film was made, I find it very difficult to see how lack of knowledge in relation to it should disqualify you from being able to become a Danish citizen. In other words, the criteria we set up for the citizens who apply for Danish citizenship are not, of course, those that we ourselves are subject to. After all, the same requirements have not been imposed on us in order to obtain the right to vote in local elections because we were born and raised in Denmark. This does not apply to the group of young people who have been born and raised in Denmark but who have not been able to obtain Danish citizenship through their parents; they do not receive that right, even though they have also participated in primary school education.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180248	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180250	When Enhedslisten's rapporteur starts to talk about everything other than what I asked, I think it is an admission that it is of course not mind-control. Of course it was a wrong word to use here in this area, because it is not mind control to make a test where you ask people to understand what kind of rights you have in Denmark. That is what this is all about. It is a matter of value, and therefore it is grotesque that the rapporteur is sneaking around with words such as mind control, but I see that the rapporteur is also making a concession, because there was such a long tirade of things that had nothing to do with my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180326	No, the rapporteur should certainly not see this as such. In other words, when you make a test where you specifically select specific subjects that you need to know about, such as. This is not a question of asking people to know Danish values, no, because then Mrs Marie Krarup has already defined what a Danish value is, and I do not think Mrs Marie Krarup knows my Danish values, even though I was born and raised here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180401	Thank you for that, sir. Peder Hvelplund. When the floor is given to the rapporteur, it is the rapporteur who has the floor and when the floor is given to the authors in the Chamber, they are the ones who have the floor. Now we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180423	Thank you, President. The bill here is, of course, a coinage of our very good new agreement on citizenship from spring onwards. Unfortunately, we think it makes good sense that young people from Nordic countries can only obtain Danish citizenship in the future by declaration if they were born in their Nordic home country, not if they have only been granted Norwegian or Swedish citizenship by law. But, frankly, this is also a rather sad development. Now it was as if nobody really wanted to talk about the elephant in the room earlier in the debates, namely why we have to do this, but we can answer that. If you look at the massive influx of asylum seekers and migrants during the refugee crisis six years ago to Sweden, you see that many of them are already living up to being able to get, at least by length of stay, Swedish citizenship, perhaps even after 3 or 5 years, and should it be the case that you can come to Sweden as a refugee and get Swedish citizenship according to very lenient conditions compared to us, we do not think it should be possible then to apply to us and get Danish citizenship by declaration. So that's among other things. That's why we have to make this change. It is not because a lot of Finns or Germans have moved to Sweden, got Swedish passports, and then cannot get the Danish passport. That is not what we fear. It's just to be blunt, because that's what this is all about. On the other hand, we make it easier for young people from Sydslesvig to have Danish citizenship as a secondary person, we have new rules for the constitutional ceremony, and we strengthen, thanks to the Left, and thanks to the Left for taking it up in the negotiations, the birth test with questions about Danish values. I would like to say a word of thanks again to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for bringing up this whole debate, this new agreement on citizenship. It was something that we blue parties sent a joint letter to the minister about, the minister listened, and there were a lot of things we did not get along with, and I could take a long time to list them here, but I think we already know what it was, but we also got some good things here, in which a wide range of parties in the Folketing could see themselves in that, and I think that is very sensible. We also need to look at the rules of permanent residence. We would have liked to have included that in this agreement, but we didn't. We believe that far too many petty criminals are still living permanently today. You can get a permanent stay, even if you have received a virtually infinite number of fines for drugs and various other small things, and we think we should look at that too. But Rome wasn't built on a day, we're happy with this new citizenship agreement, and we support the bill. I would like to welcome the new citizens and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180707	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl for Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180711	I would like to put a question to the rapporteur. How many Swedes have applied for and acquired Danish citizenship in 2020 and 2021 and if it is too new numbers, go just a year further back • who wouldn't have gotten it with this proposal for new rules? How many Swedes have applied for and got Danish citizenship that wouldn't have gotten it with these rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180739	It is quite a small number, but this is a matter of due diligence, because if you have come to Sweden as young Syrians, for example. I believe, without being a specialist on the Swedish rules, that you can already obtain Swedish citizenship for 3-4 years. I believe that after 18 years of age. And if you have come to Sweden as being over 18 years old, I think it is about 5-6 years, you have to have lived in Sweden and then also have lived up to other rules. The vast majority came to Sweden in 2015, 2016 and 2017 by family reunification. As I remember, it's a figure of up to 200,000 people. So they are quietly beginning to live up to the rules in order to be able to acquire Swedish citizenship. That's why it's due diligence now to say: As a Swede you can get the Danish citizenship by declaration, you just have to be born in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180826	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180828	I did not ask the rapporteur to conjure up a frightening picture of the future. I asked for a very concrete answer to a very specific question. How many Swedes have applied for and acquired Danish citizenship in 2020 and 2021, which would not have received it with this proposal? If it is difficult to understand the question, I would like to repeat it. This is very specific, and the rapporteur must know the answer when the rapporteur has been so happy to get this rule into this legislative package.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180857	As I have said, it is, and I am sorry to repeat myself, a very, very small number, but it is a matter of due diligence in relation to those countries and now the rapporteur asked for a figure of plus/minus 200,000 that came to Sweden from countries in the Middle East and other countries during the refugee crisis, of which very many still live in Sweden, of which very many will soon live up to the possibility of obtaining citizenship. They should not just be able to convert it into a Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012180924	Well, then let's stay on that track a little bit. Last year, it was eight citizens who obtained citizenship through the declaration access for naturalised Nordic citizens. Of course, we do not know how many of them were Swedes. But what is it, sir? Marcus Knuth bases that picture on? Because they are also Swedes who, for good reasons, would like to obtain citizenship in Denmark and who would then have to meet the criteria for obtaining citizenship through declaration access in Denmark. They are still standing there; they are not being changed. So what is it, sir? Marcus Knuth bases the idea that it would suddenly come in with a lot of Swedes who, having first acquired citizenship in Sweden, have a huge desire to use that citizenship in Sweden to apply to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181018	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181020	I am basing it on the fact that it is a bit like having an insurance against an accident when it is the case that some 200,000 asylum seekers have arrived in Sweden during the refugee crisis • if no more were given when it also includes family reunification; then we cannot rewind it if they first start applying for Danish citizenship by declaration. That's why we're doing this insurance now. But if you were born in Sweden and raised in Sweden, you still have that opportunity. Sir. Peder Hvelplund makes it sound as if you cannot get citizenship in Denmark at all as a Swede. Of course, you can also do so with all the really good agreements we have in the Nordic Council. So, yes, the door is completely open in the same way to Swedes born and raised in Sweden. We just want the large group that came here during the refugee crisis not to use this as a loophole for Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181107	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181110	I just do not quite understand the distinction that should be between a Swede who was born in Sweden and gains citizenship that way, and a Swede who has come to Sweden at the age of two and has acquired citizenship. Why should one pose a threat and the other not? So, what is the concrete reason for this? What is it, sir? Marcus Knuth claims that there is a particular kind of Swede that it is extremely dangerous to get here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181139	The rapporteur now puts words in my mouth that are not right, that is to say the word threat. I didn't say anything about a threat. I have just said that we do not want there to be a loophole for the many people who have come here during the refugee crisis in particular. We can see the situation in Sweden, where there is a massive over-representation of crime. We do not want that to be used as a loophole for Danish citizenship, because there is now the possibility of citizenship by means of a declaration which we then close off here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181204	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Marcus Knuth. And then no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so now we have reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181220	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate on the legislative proposal. As you all know, on 20 April this year the government concluded a new agreement with the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. On the basis of the agreement on citizenship, I have issued a new circular which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration administers after when we deal with applications for Danish citizenship by naturalisation. However, there is also a need for us to amend the law of citizenship in a number of places. The legislative proposal we are debating today is therefore intended to create the necessary legislative framework for the implementation of parts of the agreement. It is therefore proposed that the current lax access for e.g.: naturalised Nordic citizens aged between 18 and 23 to declare themselves Danish citizens are abolished. They are very few every year. It is also suggested that it should be possible for children of Danish-minded Southern Schleswigers resident in Sydslesvig or Kiel Municipality to obtain Danish citizenship as a secondary with a parent if it can be demonstrated that the child has been in Danish school or daycare institution in Sydslesvig or Kiel Municipality for at least one year. If the child has been kept at home in the institutional age, the requirement is deemed to be fulfilled. Among other things, it has. was a request of the South Schleswig Committee. It is also suggested that five additional questions on Danish values, such as freedom of expression, equality, the relationship between religion and legislation, etc., will be included in the citizenship test. It is also proposed that an applicant for Danish citizenship should only be given the opportunity to take part in a constitutional ceremony in the applicant's municipality of residence and that the applicant alone should have the opportunity to shake hands with the mayor or an alderman instead of a representative of the municipal council. Finally, it is proposed to withdraw the fee paid when submitting applications for Danish citizenship by naturalisation. The fee increase shall cover the increased costs of the agreement. I now look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181431	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Marcus Knuth first.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181435	As I said, thank you to the Foreign Minister for opening up this new agreement on citizenship. We do not get everything through in a debate, but we think there were some significant improvements to the agreement. But we also said that we also thought that we should look at permanent residence agreements. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, you can get a permanent stay, even if you have received an unlimited number of fines related to, for example, Drugs. There are no longer any career periods or anything that means that you cannot still get away with permanent residence, even though you repeatedly commit a lot of minor offences, for example. in the area of drugs or anything else. So does the Minister not want to meet us too? I think there are a lot of people here who want to look at especially crime and permanent stays so to look at that part too, so that Denmark just becomes a little safer place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181525	We actually changed the rules of permanent residence, even quite significantly, in the last assembly. It was also something we supported by the Social Democrats. We do not now have any immediate plans to make any significant changes to those rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181541	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181543	After all, politics is a constantly evolving world. It is another Parliament that we have today; there are many new members who are new parties, even new parties after the parliamentary elections. So all the other things being equal, I just want to make a call and the minister does not have to answer binding yes or no to it, one must be careful to be responsive if we come up with individual proposals for a few minor adjustments to the permanent stay agreement. There we hope that the Minister will be sensitive to us Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181613	Any politician who is not responsive has already shot himself in the foot. So, of course, you always have to keep your ears out. But I would also like to be honest and say that this is not exactly where our focus is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181627	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181630	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. The Minister is probably also well aware that the recent agreement here has caused considerable unrest among the citizens who have a desire to obtain Danish citizenship, also among some of those who have actually sought applicable rules, but then have experienced that the rules have been tightened during the process. I mean, they've had an expectation of coming up with a bill, but they were then prevented from doing so because the rules were tightened. Every time we have this debate and every time we tighten it up, it gives us a lot of unrest. In fact, for many, it is some citizens for whom becoming a Danish citizen is a pretty big thing, and for whom it means a lot, in terms of identity, to be able to do so, and therefore also a huge defeat, that this opportunity disappears. So I just want to hear from the Minister whether, in the opinion of the government, it is also now necessary to say that no further tightening of this regulation is now going to take place; there will be no new charges; there will be no new rules with retroactive effect, but that the foundation is now as it should be, in the view of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181743	We think there are some good rules and we have no plans to change anything. I also think it is part of the discussions on this that last year Denmark granted some 5,000 citizenships. It is not a figure that has fallen so dramatically in recent years. There are very, very many foreigners who meet the requirements and who are granted citizenship, and I think that is only positive. We would not want to live in a country where there are far too many people who are not citizens. Now so I know it just passed the German election I read in a newspaper that there were 10 million citizens in Germany who did not have the right to vote in the Bundestag elections in Germany. I think that is quite violent, and I do not think Denmark should go there. There, you can choose either to relax the requirements for citizenship or to control the influx so hard that we do not keep getting new foreigners to the country that does not meet the requirements, and then, on the other hand, to integrate those who are here. We have then chosen the last model.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181850	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181852	I am glad to hear that the government certainly does not plan to tighten the rules. But I would also just like to point out to the Minister that there are, in fact, parties that will be willing to deliver a majority to the government to begin relaxing some of these rules, so that there can also be a hope given to some of the citizens who actually have a very pronounced desire to become full members of Danish society and who are experiencing what the Minister says we must avoid a growing group of citizens in this country who are not full members, even if they live, live and have their lives here in Denmark. So I would just like to call on the Minister to see that a majority could also be created somewhere else that could help to give hope to those citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012181936	Well, of course I am fully aware of where the different parties stand when it comes to the rules for granting citizenship. But it is probably just the case that, in this area, we are more in agreement with the parties with which we have reached an agreement than with, for example, the parties with which we have concluded an agreement. Enhedslisten. I have said many times and I would like to repeat that I call on the foreigners who are here and who have been here for a number of years and who have permanent residence and are living up to the conditions to seek citizenship if you feel at home in Denmark. Because I think you should have citizenship in the country where you have a future if you have lived there for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182012	Thank you. The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Krarup, and that also means that there will probably not be talk right behind Mrs Krarup when she has to make a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182023	If you tighten the requirements for citizenship, it may be that it has an impact on how many people come to Denmark. I believe that relaxing the requirements of citizenship will make Denmark act as a magnet. That is why I think it is important that we continue to tighten them; it is just a comment on the previous questioner. We in the Danish People's Party were very disappointed that it was not possible to get any of the restrictions we proposed into the agreement. It is a matter of knowing something about people's religious background in the Committee on Bodily Rights when granting derogations. It is absolutely absurd that we cannot get that information. It is true that the legislative proposals must, of course, be broken down by group of countries, so that we can vote in favour, for example. South Schleswigers, Norwegians and Swedes, but can vote against people who are culturally very far away from Denmark, and that there must of course also be a ceiling over it. So will the Minister not admit that stricter requirements for citizenship can also have an impact on how many flows to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182128	To be honest, I don't really know. I have tried to take an interest in whether there have been international studies of what is important for where people are seeking asylum, and I have certainly not been able to confirm on a stand-by basis that the rules governing the granting of citizenship are relevant to this, but that does not mean that I can totally reject the importance of this. I have been told that rules on asylum, family reunification and benefits can be important, as can the fact that there is a diaspora in the country already of the nationality from which people come. I think so, for example. If we see an increase in the influx from Afghanistan, it will be important: that they will move towards some of the countries in which there are already many Afghans. And that may be one of the reasons why Denmark is not in the same way as, for example, Denmark. Austria is experiencing it in these months, has quite a strong influx from those countries. However, I have not been confirmed anywhere that citizenship in this respect is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182229	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182231	I would guess that, like all the other rules, it matters. But I would like to ask something else at the end: can the Minister assure me that at the constitutional ceremonies there will be only one person present to whom one has to shake hands, so that one cannot choose between persons of the two sexes, so that one cannot shake hands with someone who has a sex whom one does not like to shake hands with, and will the Minister ensure that the authority is done in such a way that one cannot bypass hand with one, for example. of the opposite sex?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182309	Of course, I also heard the question from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party when the Danish People's Party was on the floor. In the municipalities with only one mayor, and that is after all the majority, it is self-evident, but we have also opened up the possibility that besides the mayor, mayors, or mayors of the City of Copenhagen, can shake hands. I myself took part in a constitutional ceremony at Copenhagen City Hall, and there had the five, six, seven tables, I think it was, and there the applicants had been told in advance which table they should stand by, so they could not just choose which table they would stand for themselves. Whether this can also be regulated in this way in the actual implementation of this, I am in fact a little in doubt. I would just like to return with that in writing. But if it can, I'd like to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182351	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182407	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182430	Thank you, President. The bill proposes the introduction of a temporary residence permit for Afghans evacuated by Denmark from Afghanistan following the Taliban's takeover of power. This summer a broad majority agreed to offer local staff at the embassy in Kabul as well as the former local staff of the defence and their immediate family evacuation to Denmark. This also applies to selected NGO staff and a number of local staff at NATO, the EU and the UN as well as their immediate family. The purpose of the draft law is to provide a temporary two-year basis of residence for the persons concerned and their families. This will ensure that they can quickly have a relatively normal everyday life compared to if they should seek asylum. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we have a special responsibility to help the Afghans whom we considered could be at risk as a consequence of their attachment and contribution to Denmark's engagement in Afghanistan. The evacuated Afghans will therefore be able to apply for asylum during their stay, but will therefore have a special basis for residence if this bill is adopted. In addition, Afghans with the temporary residence permit will have the opportunity to work and have access to relevant training during their stay. Social democracy therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182547	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182551	I would just like to express my deep disappointment and that of my party that the government is now relaxing foreign policy in this area. That was not what was envisaged in the election campaign, as I recall. So I would like to ask: does the rapporteur believe that these people will ever come back to Afghanistan? What is the probability that they will be able to stay here forever? Because after two years, they can apply for asylum. How likely will the rapporteur think that they will return to Afghanistan or that Denmark will take responsibility for them forever? I am really surprised that the experience of the special law of 1992 has not been taken into account. It was the special law of the Palestinians that occupied a church. It was a really, really bad idea. I do not think there is any need for any more special laws at all when you have promised to maintain strict foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182649	Well, if I'm going to start from behind: I don't think this special law quite tolerates comparison with the special law for the Palestinians from then on. These are people who have worked directly for Denmark and worked with Danes at the embassy or in connection with defence missions, and who would therefore be at risk if they had stayed in Afghanistan when the Danes returned home. I hope, then, that many of those people will have the opportunity to return within two years or when their residence permit expires, because it is only a 2-year residence permit that they get on this basis. If they do not think they can, then they must apply for asylum, and then the authorities must assess whether there is a basis for them to have asylum. But right now there are no such acts of war in Afghanistan. This is, of course, a different situation than that, for example. is in much of Syria. So my hope is, of course, that many will have the opportunity to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182752	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182754	But it is not in the draft law; you can listen to it. It is a way of legalising asylum immigration, and that is one of the things that should be fought to stop it. So this is a relaxation of foreign policy in an area where there is absolutely no need for it, because why should we have a moral obligation to grant asylum or temporary residence permits to some people who have worked for Denmark abroad? It is a country which it is unpleasant to be in. It is certainly a country, but it is, after all, their homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182830	We went into Afghanistan to combat the terrorist threat that came out of Afghanistan that housed Al-Qaeda. In this connection, a number of Afghans helped, among other things. the Danish military and Danish employees at the embassy in Kabul. Those people would now be in a dangerous and exposed situation if they were left behind when the Danes went home. That is why I think it is both reasonable and morally right to take responsibility for these people. I do not think it is right to talk about the fact that this is a matter of relaxing foreign policy. And I would also like to remind you that it was a fairly broad majority in the Folketing that it was quite agreed that we should find a solution to the problem now before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182912	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012182915	I do not have very good experience when it comes to the law on foreigners and the broad majority. I have to say. That's not what this is all about. And I think that was a remarkably short speech made by the rapporteur. The rapporteur is usually able to spread on all aspects of foreign policy, but the speech was very brief in relation to the debate that has taken place. Because I'd like to go a little further. I would like to ask two questions: how can we prevent what was originally stated in the draft legislative proposal, namely that there could actually be more wives at once? How are we going to prevent that? Well, there's something called family reunions... maybe it's for a wife, two wives, three wives... or what? I know quite well what has been said about the number, but I would like to hear the rapporteur say from the platform how many people are expected to be entirely credible about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183004	The fact that it was a short speech was actually because it was not such a great debate on value policy that we had been invited to. I mean, the more it was about dealing with this specific bill, and I don't think that gave rise to a very long speech. The unclear wordings that have been discussed should, of course, because you could get the impression that some might think that there should be polywifery coming to Denmark or similar and minor brides and such things, be cleared out of this bill, which is why they have also been taken away now. You're not part of the bill now. In relation to the number, it is, as far as I remember, now almost 900 people that are involved. Then there is a small window into, as far as I remember, on 24 November, where further applications will be available. I don't expect to be here, but it's only a guess I can give you from here that we're going to see a very sharp increase in the number of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183100	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183102	It started with 100. That was the figure that the government first provided. Now it's 900, good and good. I'm sure it's gonna be bigger. It is good to have it reversed, so that it is also included in the debate. But I just have to ask: how will one prevent multi-wife and child bride from coming to Denmark right now? In other words, we cannot do that, and I think the rapporteur can stand by and say: well, we cannot really do anything about it. Now a majority, yes, has decided to take them to Denmark... a really bad special law... but admit how it really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183144	Well, we're not going to have multi-wife in Denmark, and we're not going to have child brides in Denmark. Should this prove to be the case, and I am aware that this has not yet proved to be the case, the authorities must take action against it, and it must then have the right consequences. You're only covered by this special law if you're either a former local employee, i.e. someone with a connection to Denmark, or near family, and of course not if you're a wife to the left hand, or what do I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183217	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183220	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Now there is a sunset clause in the bill we are discussing here today. What is the rapporteur's position if, in two years' time, the situation in Afghanistan is still uncertain and dangerous for the group we have evacuated? Would the rapporteur be in favour of the inclusion in the draft law of a legal basis for, for example, the Minister? to be able to extend the special law for one year at a time as long as we can see that the situation in Afghanistan is still uncertain?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183258	After all, it is always difficult to predict something that lies two years into the future, but at first sight I find it difficult to imagine that it would be a proposal that I myself would put forward in the Socialist Group room. Now we have helped the people to Denmark in a good way, so that they get a residence basis and can immediately get started working or going to school and be integrated into a municipality somewhere in Denmark. This law will probably give them a very special and fine scheme, which will last two years. If, then, they cannot return home because they think it is uncertain for them to return home, then they must, like all others who seek asylum, go through the asylum system and seek asylum, and then the authorities must assess whether it is right and whether there is a team. And otherwise they will have to find a different basis for stays, so they will have to come under the system of amounts, the positive list, the system of social relations or whatever else they can contribute to, and thus take advantage of some of the other possibilities for obtaining a residence basis that we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183359	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183401	I fully agree that this is a very fine legislative proposal with many possibilities that we have had together. But now the rapporteur himself refers to the fact that they, for example, are in a position to do so. can be in a municipality and are in the process of integration etc. If we still look away in two years' time into a situation where asylum treatment for Afghans is still suspended, as is the case now, and if it is the case that they can neither be under asylum treatment nor can be on special law anymore, then they may land in a hole where you have to take them out of the municipality and move them back to an asylum centre. How does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183440	Well, I have no expectation that asylum applications from Afghan citizens will not be dealt with forever. I have the expectation that at some point we will be able to start again, and it is up to the authorities to decide whether it would be dangerous for all Afghans to stay in Afghanistan. I hope that is not the case, because in that case there are almost 40 million Afghans who have to find another place to live, and then we have quite different problems. I hope, then, that some sort of stabilisation will take place in Afghanistan and that many people will also want to return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183509	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183511	Thank you. I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur what we should do with those that we did not get into the evacuation, namely those NGOs, journalists, women's defenders, all sorts of others that we like, but which the Taliban do not like. How are we going to help them, because they are not going to be helped by this piece of legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183539	Now I am a little outside my own area here with the area of immigration and integration, but it is my clear impression that a very large and fine effort was made on the Danish side, which could even help other countries to evacuate out of Afghanistan. There is of course somewhere where you have to draw a limit, because there are certainly incredibly many people, even without any kind of association with Denmark, who would have liked to have been evacuated to Denmark. I think an enormous effort has been made and a great effort has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183610	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183614	Well, for a rare time, I'm in complete agreement with sir. Rasmus Stoklund has been made a very big and nice effort, but that is not the one I am asking about. I am asking about the fact that I am asking the rapporteur as the Foreign Affairs and Integration Rapporteur how we can help those who are now fleeing the Taliban, who are back in Afghanistan, who were not evacuated? Unfortunately, not all of us have been able to get along, although I fully agree that we have managed to get many out, and that is a very big and beautiful and not least important effort, and when you have helped Denmark abroad, of course we are also helping.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183650	Well, I think that this question should be put through the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I think we've done what we were supposed to do. We've evacuated an incredible number of people from Afghanistan. We've even evacuated more than we had to. It also appears that someone has sneaked on board. So you could also attack the problem from a different angle and say that there are in fact some who should not have been evaluated at all. This is a completely different and also rather great challenge that must be dealt with by the authorities at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183717	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183723	Thank you. I think we agree that the Taliban's advance was faster than what people expected it was not what the issue is about. However, there was also broad agreement that the Taliban would take over power at some point. It was kind of in the cards, too. What I would like to ask is whether it has always been the expectation of the government that at some point these interpreters should be drawn out and returned to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183754	I have to say again that it is therefore in the domain of a ministry other than that with which I work as rapporteur for foreigners. In other words, it is a question of defence or foreign policy whether we have always believed that some people should be evacuated. I have no knowledge of that or any basis for replying to it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183811	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183813	When I ask about it, it's because it's interesting to know. After all, there were also areas in Afghanistan where the Taliban held power and held power for a few months. Is the rapporteur aware of the fact that some interpreters who lived in the areas where the Taliban already had power have been evacuated and granted temporary residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183835	I'm not gonna put my head on the block on anything, because like Mr. Cole... Lars Boje Mathiesen is aware that there are people who shouldn't have been on these flights to Denmark who have come along, and that's part of the problem with the fact that all of a sudden things were going very fast, and that it was very chaotic, so more people were evacuated than should have been evaluated, and not only those who should have been covered by this legislation and who were directly associated with either the embassy or the Danish defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183906	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183911	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund as the Social Democrat rapporteur, whether we can be sure that it is not the case that some of the people who certainly should not have been on the planes that brought evacuated stay in Denmark. Now we have, among other things. Two widows, that is, a man with several wives, and are allowed to stay in Denmark, or may Mr. Rasmus Stoklund guarantees that one of them will be sent back to Afghanistan and will not be granted asylum here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012183942	I introduced a principle for myself quite quickly, after I was elected to the Folketing, of not guaranteeing anything, because it will only give me trouble, and the rapporteur will probably arrange for a bad facebook video to be made with me if I guarantee something that will change at a later stage. What I want to say is that if anyone has been sneaking in, who is not covered by the agreement, which is what we are discussing today, that is to say the legal basis for granting a special residence permit for two years, they will have to go through the asylum system, because then they will not have this 2-year residence basis, and then they will have to go through the asylum system, and then they will have to seek asylum, and then the authorities will have to assess whether they need protection or not. There may be some who do, but there will probably be others who do not, because at the moment there are no general acts of war throughout Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184029	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184031	I understand, sir. Rasmus Stoklund cannot guarantee anything, and we can also look at the string of promises that have come from the government. The elections were held to tighten up the immigration policy and ensure that the policy of permanent aliens continued, but yet warriors from the Islamic State have been received, more than 1,000 are received from Afghanistan, a lot of them are received and quota refugees are welcomed. So it's sailing around for the government. However, having said that, one could at least say in this Chamber that one of the two must at least go home and, of course, should not at any time have asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184111	I do not recognise the premise that this government has promised a great deal in relation to foreign policy, but then has broken the promises we have made. The rules for permanent residence are the same. We, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, have together tightened up this was the latest proposal that was dealt with in this Chamber before we put this on the citizenship rules. Over a wide range we stand firm on it. There has just been one particular circumstance here, where some Afghans who have worked with Danes had now come into a dangerous situation, and then we together, a broad majority in the Folketing, make a special law for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184148	Thank you. Then the last brief remark from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184151	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund says that it has gone very fast and that it was chaotic and that we have probably evacuated more than we expected. I can safely back that up. The reality is that the Americans began a gradual evacuation as early as the spring. The Australians closed their embassy. However, when we asked in the Foreign Policy Name, we were told by the Minister of Defence that you should not be worried, the Taliban is not taking Kabul on this side of a New Year, at least that is unlikely. We were told that as recently as August when we again asked the Secretary of Defense. Now it turns out that the Danish Chief of Force again and again week after week sent strong warnings back through the early summer up to June about the collapse that was coming, that is, that the Afghan security forces were crumbling. Does the rapporteur agree that if that information had been passed on to the Folketing, we would have been able to act much earlier and much more effectively and avoid some of the chaos described by the rapporteur himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184241	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184243	First of all, I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth's speech is moving slightly on the periphery of what is on the agenda in this House this evening. That's one part. Secondly, to draw this picture that it is only on the Danish side that you, what to say, were surprised by how quickly things suddenly went in Kabul, I think, too, not really. I think that alone the whole process and the pictures you saw from among others. The Kabul airport bears witness to this and also to the subsequent process of seeing that other countries too were suddenly very busy in evacuating and where Denmark could actually assist others, among other things. Nordic countries, with the evacuation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184329	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184330	To keep it as objective as possible, I would like to say that I myself belonged to those who over the summer didn't see this collapse coming. But it was because we hadn't been told here in the Folketing. Among other things: That is why there were no detailed evacuation plans implemented by the embassy and so on. If that had been the case, as some other countries did, we might not have had the confusion that, among other things. led to the rejection of criminal Afghans coming back to Denmark, and others that we had not expected. So it's actually just a comment from here that we Conservatives think it's really a shame that the Secretary of Defense in particular didn't send that information to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184405	But it is not a true picture to make it sound as if the chaotic scenes you saw playing out in Kabul, when you followed the screen, when it went all hottest, were only an expression that Danes were on their way out of Kabul. So, after all, there were many different nationalities from the Western forces on their way out of Kabul. And there were many of our allies who also evacuated in those days and who were also in a very amazing situation, because all of a sudden it all went incredibly fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184435	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is from the Left. Sir. Mads Birded, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184450	Thank you for the floor. Denmark has had a significant and active presence in Afghanistan for two decades, which unfortunately ended in a way that none of us had believed or hoped for and yet still; then there were signs in both the sun and the moon that the Americans were going out and that it might be timely to start examining who we should be taking out if what we imagined was unthinkable for a long time happened, namely that Kabul fell. The Danish soldiers and the Danish officials in Afghanistan have made a huge effort, but the political side has neglected the task of ensuring that they are prepared for the situation and therefore the situation we are facing today, with L 43 on the proposal for a law on temporary residence permits for those people. This is actually a situation in which we could have taken ourselves somewhere where it was not the same way that we had to react. With this bill, we will ensure that we help the people who have helped us, and I think we are well served by that. And that is what we in the Left think. After all, the bill came as a result of the agreement reached by the government at the beginning of August with a broad majority of parties. But it is only an agreement that the government lived up to when pressure from the blue bloc was put on the political agreement. If it were up to the government, the bill would give a residence permit to child wrestlers and people involved in multi-wifery, precisely because this screening work had not been done properly and then started that part of the whole process in advance. Therefore, much of this became a mess, and therefore such a special law as this one is also marked by the fact that the number of people who have now come to Denmark contains not only the number that we would like to help, but also some that I do not think we should have helped. But that's the way it has to be when you don't do your job properly. The situation we have ended up in is that one can say that one of the only positive aspects of this process is that the government finally realised that it had been wrong. The wording about multi-wife and child brides was changed and a proposal was put forward which we have today and which the Left can support, although I must point out once again that we had hoped that everything before L 43 had been done in such a way that we had not ended up in such a messy situation and should not have to discuss back and forth whether we should indirectly recognise multi-wife and child bride in Denmark. This is all the result of the fact that the government was not growing up in its political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184759	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and that is first Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184802	I understand that the rapporteur thinks that the process has been a mess and is thus trying to have a critical attitude to the law. However, the rapporteur stands and supports it, so the rapporteur supports a relaxation of the policy on foreigners. It is a special law that will probably bring thousands, at least 1,000, but we do not know how many more than 1,000 it will be, to Denmark, but which will probably not be able to be integrated and which will probably never be sent back, because that is the reality, unfortunately, once people have come in and have the opportunity to seek asylum. I find that extremely worrying. This is not how I think the Left would like to be known in the country, i.e. as a party that relaxes foreign policy and brings people from Muslim countries to Denmark in large groups. But that's what you do. How will you defend it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184900	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184901	Well, this is a special law, which is based on the fact that we must help the people who have helped Danish soldiers and Danish officials as part of the Afghanistan mission. These are people we very much want to help. There are about 900 now, and the number may be larger, probably a little larger, but that figure could have been something smaller if you had done a comb of the group that was supposed to come here earlier, but you haven't done that, and now we have this group that is bigger than we would have wanted. But that does not change the position of the Left that if you have helped Danish soldiers on a very sharp mission, you are also entitled to help from Denmark afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184954	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012184956	It is not only people who have fought with Danish soldiers, it is people who have been employed at the Danish embassy. Should we then in future take all people who have worked at Danish embassies or for Danish authorities in foreign countries, where it is unpleasant to be, so that just come to Denmark and seek asylum? This is an absurd way of looking at the situation. The Afghans live in their homeland, and I understand that they have wanted something else, and I also understand that they have taken a good job with Danish authorities, but that does not justify them for immigration in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185033	Unfortunately, the pattern in Afghanistan has been that the Taliban has been very vindictive towards all those who have helped the Western countries that have been active in Afghanistan, and this has meant that we have a responsibility to help them. This is certainly not something I hope will happen elsewhere. I had not at all hoped that we would stand here and talk about the fact that we had left Afghanistan in the way we have left it, so I hope that it is a single swallow that we will learn more from.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185105	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185109	Uh, I can almost feel the feeling of Mr. Knox. Mads Birded: It's not nice this, but we've said yes, so now we're voting in favour; what a bad thing we've moved into. But I just want to arrest what we have heard of unconsciousness, especially, I must say, from the Left, where they say: now they have helped us, and then we have a duty to help them. No, it's the other way around. We were the ones who helped them. It was our soldiers who went down to help them. These are the people at the embassy who got paid and who knew what they were getting into. I don't like the weird turn of things. We're the ones who've been down to help them. It is our soldiers who have made a huge, huge effort with very great consequences for many of them. And so I just have to ask, in relation to the one thousand question: how will the Left prevent the application of asylum in two years' time? I mean, they're gonna stay here in Denmark... the vast majority of them. I think we might as well face that. That is the way it will be, and I think it might as well be admitted here by the Left at a first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185216	So, I hope I have not in any way indicated that we do not believe that Denmark has made a great deal of effort and an important effort in Afghanistan. I tried more to say that we are sorry that the presence we have had for 19 years and 8 months in Afghanistan is getting the conclusion that it is now getting. When it is the case that we have been in the field with some who have supported us in the difficult situation we have been in, then it is some for which we have a special responsibility. We do not believe that we have a particular responsibility for the whole Afghan people. Yes, we have a responsibility to help in the neighbourhood; we support the UN donor programme and so on, but there is a particularly small group which has acted loyally towards Denmark and which we owe it to help now that we are no longer active in Afghanistan. And then I cannot answer Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's second part of the question, but it may then be repeated now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185314	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185315	Thank you. But the word special law alone has a really, really bad ring to it. It must also have it for the Left. I think it has for all of us in here. I would like to repeat Mrs Krarup's question: what about everywhere else? There are very, very big upheavals in the world. There's a lot of trouble around here. Do we then have an obligation in relation to all employees around where there are huge problems, because that is what they are very big in Afghanistan, but actually elsewhere in the world? Do we then also have an obligation to them in relation to helping them to Denmark? And no, sir. Mads Fuglede has at no time said anything other than that the Danish soldiers have made a great effort, but it is just constantly being turned around by saying that they are the ones who have helped us, and so it is the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185359	Yes, we have helped Afghanistan and the Afghan people, and in our attempt to help Afghanistan and the Afghan people there is a group that has helped us to help the Afghans. That is the group we are talking about here, and that is why it is a special law, and it is different from other special laws. The last group helped was the Palestinians in 1992. It was a group that repaid the Danish society by behaving very naughtyly towards Denmark. So there is a group here that we owe help because they have helped Denmark. The Palestinians would not have done that by any means.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185434	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185436	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned the fact that the first draft of the law mentioned that both wife number two and underage bride or wife were welcome to also apply to the special law. Fortunately, we all got that out of hand, and the Radical Left was very happy about it too. But I'm really most interested in the Left. What would the Left have done to these people if they had actually been there? Because we have found out by now that this was probably a theoretical discussion. But what would the Left have done? We can agree that these women would in some way have been double victims, both of a rather patriarchal marriage structure, of paedophilia, for example, at least in our legislation, and possibly also of medieval marriage structures. So what would the Left have done if they had actually been here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185531	To the extent that there are child brides or second and third wives included in the group that has ended up in Denmark, we must point them out in the ordinary asylum system, and then they must have their case dealt with there. There are many people in the world who are child brides, there are many people in the world who are second and third and fourth wives even, and Denmark has no obligation to help them by making them citizens of our country. That's not what this is about. This is about their being subject to a form of marriage that we do not want, directly, and more or less directly to send out a signal that we accept it in Denmark, so of course we could not do that. It is a strange way of turning it on its head, I think, to say that we have a special obligation to this group that is victims. But there are many who are and the efforts to remedy it must be made in those countries where you have these medieval marriage structures.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185636	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185638	Thank you for your answer. I actually thought that the rapporteur would be quite reasonable and refer to the ordinary asylum system, because that would mean that these women would have access to stay here too. Somewhere, it is a little contrary to what the rapporteur subsequently says about the fact that there is no reason why we should take special account of these, but we would have had to do so. So again it's just an example of how we could have had a good, solid, reasonable discussion without necessarily crawling up on some symbolic horse and morally just furious against these groups that really didn't exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185711	I didn't really hear any question in this follow-up here, so I'm a little unsure what to answer, other than that I'm really glad that Denmark hasn't placed itself in a situation now that we recognize multi-wife or child bride. That would not have served us, and we should neither do it directly nor indirectly, and to the extent that we can help countries to learn more about this is an important signal to send out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185742	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185744	I am a little curious about what principles the Left will build on in the future. So, is it that if, and probably we will, we are in conflicts in the world in the future and there are some who have been allied with us, perhaps have helped us, as the Left rapporteur says, and then they are on the losing side, will they have access to Denmark? It is to understand what it means, if you put it here as a premise, as the rapporteur does, that if you have helped Denmark and you are in danger in your own country, you have the right to come to Denmark. Is that the principle on which the Left is based foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185831	If, in a thought situation, you have helped Denmark and are thus in danger of life, because you have helped Denmark, and we acknowledge that you have placed yourself in danger of life, because you have helped Denmark, well then we must certainly consider helping those people too. In the situation we are in Afghanistan, we have been able to help by helping them to the extent that they have been sought by the Taliban and have fled the country, we are helping them here. And that is certainly not something I hope to repeat, but if it were to happen again, we must always help those who are willing to fight with the Danes and help Danish soldiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185914	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185916	But I am not sure that they are in danger of life because they have helped Denmark. They are in danger of life because they are against the Taliban and may not share their views in some areas. Then I would like to ask: does the rapporteur know whether any of those who have come here, any of the thousand people who have come here, have resided in some of the areas where the Taliban already ruled and held power, because then they would not have been in immediate danger, i.e. if the Taliban already controlled that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012185950	No, I don't know anything about that, and I know that, among other things. Nothing about 'cause you haven't done a screening of this group. It is a strange, very late procedure which takes place in Denmark. It should have been going on in Afghanistan a long time ago, so you had an overview of who they were and whether they were in real danger. I'm pretty sure someone has come to Denmark in this group that shouldn't have come to Denmark, and then I'm pretty sure there are some of them that we stand very well by helping now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190026	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190038	We have poor experience with special laws in the field of foreigners in Denmark. The special law on Palestinians who occupied Blågård's Church in 1992 and received asylum collectively, and which has since added Denmark many expenses and much crime, should be a lesson. But here we see a new special law. These are an unknown number of Afghans who have assisted Danish authorities. At first we were told that it was about 100, now it is about 1,000. How many is that? And how many will this end with in practice, when it is likely that family reunification will also be sought in the future? And what does it mean that Afghans have assisted Danish authorities? It sounds very heroic, but it could also look as if you have helped if you have cleaned the Danish embassy in Kabul or been a driver, yes, or interpreter for Danes. But is it helping? And does it trigger a special bond that makes these people unable to live with the fate of their country? Does the aid not mean that they have actually taken a well-paid job with some foreigners at their own expense and risk? I believe that, and I do not think that we have a particular moral duty to ensure that those people who have simply had a good job for a period of their lives are given the opportunity to leave their country and make Denmark their new country. So the very idea that we have a duty to allow these people's immigration to Denmark is wrong. The way it's been done is also weird. This has been done sloppyly, because it turns out that some people are also taken to Denmark, which had already been deported forever from the country. Why do they have to go back to us after we have gotten rid of them with a lot of trouble and trouble? And what will happen to them now? Do they have to stay in Denmark forever? Are they staying at Kærshovedgård? It is embarrassing for the government and it is embarrassing for the parties supporting this agreement that the execution is so bad. Finally, who believes, however, that this will only be granted two years' temporary stay? You can apply for asylum afterward. The probability that these people will stay in Denmark forever and draw a lot of others with them is very, very great. We in the Danish People's Party think that this bill is a disgrace. It is the opposite of a strict immigration policy, which the government claims to be pursuing. It is simply wrong to impose more expenditure and problems on the Danish people with foreigners who cannot be integrated into the country. There is poor experience with special laws in Denmark. We take this seriously in the Danish People's Party. Unfortunately, the government and the parties to the agreement do not. The Danish People's Party cannot support L 43.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190337	Thank you. There are no questionsers, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Halime Oguz, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190349	Thank you. Our rapporteur, sir. Carl Valentin couldn't be here today, so I read his speech. I dare not think about what these things are, Afghans who have opposed or opposed the Taliban for the last 20 years, may be subjected to the Taliban's seizure of power in Kabul on 15 August. However, I know we know that executions are one of the punishments that the Taliban have used. That is why SF is part of the agreement that stands by our special responsibility to help Afghans who have not least assisted the Danish war effort in Afghanistan, but who have also exposed themselves and their relatives to great, great dangers. In SF we therefore welcome the bill to grant temporary residence permits to persons who have assisted Danish authorities in Afghanistan, and we are particularly excited that Afghans will have the opportunity to receive education, training and work during their stay, and that the evacuated Afghans will be subject to the rules of the Danish Integration Act, which among other things. contains offers of housing placement, Danish education and self-residence and return travel programme. That the evacuated Afghans can have the opportunity to become part of Danish society is, after all, a prerequisite for their success in the Danish labour market for the next 2 years and possibly more. Because there will be Afghans who will not be able to return to Afghanistan in two years' time. Given the current situation in Afghanistan and the low prospects for women and girls in particular, it is clear why. It is therefore also positive that the bill allows the beneficiaries to apply for asylum and residence permits under the other rules of the Aliens Act, and bearing in mind the situation in Afghanistan, we will therefore also listen to the Danish Refugee Aid and the Institute for Human Rights' recommendation that the Foreigners' Board is obliged to advise those included in the proposal on the possibility of seeking asylum and on the legal situation associated with asylum. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190620	Thank you. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190623	Well, now you know SF again, so you want so many strangers in the country that you think it's okay. But after all, it says that it is a two-year temporary stay. But the rapporteur said that it might be more. In other words, the rapporteur will support the extension of their right of residence for more than two years. In other words, the SF, the government's support party, is already calling for such an even greater relaxation of foreign policy. Did I understand the rapporteur correctly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190703	Yes, Mrs. Marie Krarup did. It is true that I said that there will be an opportunity to do so, at least we are in favour of extending the residence permit in view of the situation. We simply do not believe that in two years' time there will be security or peace in Afghanistan, and we therefore have a special duty to help these people who have risked their lives to help us Danes in the fight against the Taliban.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190734	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190735	If they have risked their lives in the fight against the Taliban, I hope it is for Afghanistan's sake, I would very much hope so. I would hope that they are good patriots, and that is why it is of course grotesque that they should emigrate to Denmark. But now you know SF again. That's good. Then you know that they stand for a lenient foreign policy. What is then just more strange is that SF is a co-signator of an agreement in which V and K are also involved, which otherwise claims that they stand for a strict immigration policy, and the government has claimed the same. And that's what's weird. In other words, it is clear that the SF is in favour of more immigration of asylum, and so it is an agreement that has brought together some parties that are in favour of the opposite. I think that's creepy to think about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190819	I do not quite know what Mrs Marie Krarup means by knowing the SF again. Well, SF has always supported a humanistic policy. We have never supported the idea of free immigration or the fact that borders should be completely open, but I would like to refer to the words of my President when she speaks, for example, in the specific situation. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190853	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012190904	Thank you, President. First of all, I have a greeting to you from the evacuated Afghans in Sandholm camp. It sounds like this from free memory: Thank you so much for saving us out of Afghanistan, and thank you for the operation went so well in relation to almost all other countries' operations, which probably many of you have read about this weekend's Politiken. Of course, I replicated with: It was also missing, and thanks for your efforts, and thanks for helping us. It was also important for them to say that the Danish effort has not been in vain. Generations have gone to school, received education and, above all, had the hope that the reality of Afghanistan may be different from that of the Taliban. With the greetings to the Danish Parliament in mind, I will go to the bill and start with the good elements: The circle in section 1 of the bill is very, very sensibly defined. Not all evacuees can get residence under this scheme, but anyone who has somehow assisted Denmark gets a residence permit under this scheme. Other evacuees are free to search for other arrangements, e.g. asylum under Article 7 of the Aliens Act. In addition, there is a very wide access to residence for the family of people who have assisted Danish authorities. Both spouses, children and adult children are also covered by persons from the same household, grandparents and grandchildren. The residence permit also gives the right to work and it was not given in advance, so we are pleased about that. This is, of course, absolutely crucial for integration. Other arrangements may be applied for. Persons with a residence permit under this law may still seek residence under the provisions of the Aliens Act, e.g.: asylum or family reunification, without prejudice to this residence permit, which is also important to bear in mind. Persons with residence under this law are enrolled in the Integration Act. They are treated in the same way as refugees and are therefore covered by free Danish education and employment-oriented efforts. Last but not least, people staying under this scheme get access to education. We are not so enthusiastic about the sunset clause, which is also strongly criticised in most of the consultation responses. The bill does not allow for the extension of the residence permit when the clause enters into force in 2024. It is a great crunch, and we know that the uncertainty that this creates about the Afghans' future in Denmark is extremely damaging to integration. Most people will probably be given asylum in the long term, but it will be a long process since all cases are currently under way. are suspended, and in the meantime the Afghans are living in constant uncertainty about their future. One can imagine that, in two years' time, an Afghan family will be well in the process of integration. The mother is in education, the danger is at work, and the children may attend primary and secondary school. It's not an image I'm grasping out of some idyllic performance, but a realistic scenario based on who it really is we've evacuated and what they have with them with skills and zeal. After two years, the special law expires and asylum treatment for Afghans is still suspended, because no one has yet an overview of the situation in Afghanistan. That's the scenario I'm trying to set up. It is a quite likely scenario that we should guard against in the law. So is the family actually without a place of residence and must be protected and must be returned to the asylum centre or what? The potential pitfall that is after two years, we would like the bill to be addressed. If peace has broken out and no one is in danger any longer, the Afghan refugees must of course be sent home, but quite frankly, how realistic is it? If we do not foresee the potential situation now, we will not only create unnecessary uncertainty among the evacuees, but we will also create an unnecessary problem for ourselves if we do not already create tools in the legislative proposal to deal with this situation. The Radical Left therefore proposes an amendment which removes the sunset clause of the bill and at the same time provides for the extension of the temporary residence permit by one year at a time, as long as the situation in Afghanistan is such that there is no forced expulsion. The amendment should indicate that a residence permit is to be renewed if an application for asylum is pending so that the applicant can continue any work or schooling and not be required to stay at an asylum centre. Of course, we support the legislative proposal as a whole, but we also hope that there is an opportunity to eliminate the pitfall that I have described. This would create calm and security both for the Afghans, for the municipalities that have to accept them, and for the authorities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012191343	Thank you. There are no comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012191353	Thank you. The conditions for people who disagree with the Taliban in Afghanistan have been unfairly harsh for decades. Here 20 years after Denmark joined the war in Afghanistan, we are looking at a country that may even be in even worse condition than when it went to war in 2001. Many people in Afghanistan believed that we would help them to have a democratically governed country where women have the same rights as men, where you are not punished for having a different attitude than those in power, and where you are not punished as a journalist for writing critically about government power. However, as we saw a few months ago, everything we have tried to build was removed in a few days. And the rights we are talking about have again been curtailed. Today we are then discussing a bill for the benefit of those who have helped the Danish state with their efforts in Afghanistan. I just wanted to say that we didn't help them. It was absolutely appropriate that we in Denmark, although a celebrity too late, evacuated these people from Afghanistan. Interpreters, NGO workers and their families have pulled out of the Taliban's claws, and I very much agree with previous rapporteurs that it was and is a very good work. Having said that, there are still a great many people in Afghanistan who need our help. This law is a special law, and it's temporary. I think it is very good that we are adopting a special law here, although I am also concerned that we are now creating a kind of parallel system alongside the ordinary asylum system. And that this law provides only two years of temporary protection is, in my view, very inadequate. Of course, we cannot afford to stand around with a potential rejection again in two years' time, for the likelihood that in two years' time, or for that matter in five years' time, the Taliban will no longer be in power is almost at the level of the likelihood that I will be prime minister within the same period. We have a system in Denmark to take care of people fleeing from war. We have an asylum system. And even though a large majority in here has spent a great many years making it very difficult to get asylum and stay in Denmark, there is no doubt that those we have evacuated from Afghanistan would be entitled to asylum under Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 1. - In other words, the protection of asylum would give them much more and better rights than the special law we are adopting today. This could therefore be resolved by simply allowing them to apply for asylum, like all other refugees, and of course also resolved by the fact that the cases relating to Afghanistan in the Refugee Board were not paused. However, I still think we need to adopt this special law, and we do, because we have a system that has such unreasonable lengths of procedure that it will take up to 18 months before these people, who obviously have a need for protection, will be able to begin to integrate into Danish society. And these are the conditions to which the very few refugees we otherwise receive in Denmark are exposed. These are the conditions that experts have repeatedly pointed out to further traumatize war refugees, put them even further back into the unemployment queue, and these are conditions that could be changed without difficulty if an active choice had been made not to make life miserable for these people. Since we must expect that only very few people will be unable to apply for asylum and will therefore be on this special law, I can understand the criticism made by both the Danish Red Cross and Danish Refugee Aid that we are now doing this parallel system. Nevertheless, I believe that some will be caught by this special law which would not have been caught by the current asylum system. That's why we think it's good to make this law. At the same time, we also know that studies show that 60%. The Danes support the fact that the Afghan refugees we are talking about today should actually have a permanent residence permit. It is practically impossible to obtain a permanent residence permit in Denmark, which is why we also think it is very sensible that we give these people two years of breathing space. Finally, allow me to welcome the fact that, after all, there is still some civil decency left in the Left and the Conservative People's Party and that it can succeed, Mr President. Minister, to scratch a little in the government's foreign policy. The unitary list may support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012191856	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012191913	Thank you, President. Of course, when people in the world help us, they also have to be able to count on us when everything really falls apart. That is why we supported Conservatives in August to help evacuate our local Afghan embassy staff and the remaining military interpreters. It wasn't an easy decision. We don't think you should evacuate people unless it's absolutely necessary. It is not the case that an appointment at a Danish embassy in a conflict zone or being a military interpreter for Denmark around the world should automatically lead to a plane ticket to Denmark. In the first discussions on 9 August with the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we were very reluctant to evacuate, not least because we were told that it was unlikely that the Taliban would take Kabul on this side of New Year. First, we thought it was relevant to evacuate people if it really burned. However, defence intelligence turned out to be completely on the moon, to put it that way, for only six days later Kabul fell to the Taliban, while the Secretary of Defense had gone to Ærø to conduct an election campaign. Since then, the Danish Chief of Force, the Danish colonel, who was in Kabul until mid-June, has been constantly warning of the disastrous conditions for Afghan security forces and therefore also of the impending collapse in Afghanistan. The Secretary of Defense didn't get involved in that. Nor was it passed on to us in the Folketing. We have pointed out this scandal over and over again. Our evacuation from Afghanistan could have been much more timely and well organised. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund himself also said that it was chaotic that it went very fast. The Americans started in the spring; the Australians even closed their embassy; in those countries that have not listened properly to their people on earth, in the Netherlands and in Britain, there have been ministerial rocods, fired ministers. It hasn't happened in Denmark, you just say: Never mind! Because things were not in order, we ended up flying around four times as many Afghans as had been planned, including expelled criminal Afghans from Denmark, back to Danish soil. So you can say: why do we support Conservatives here? We do this because we share the original agreement, and because we think that the Afghans, and this is true of some of these small thousands of people, have that about those who know about Afghanistan and know what the situation was like in 2001. The Taliban's enemies simply hung as dead bodies in the lampposts. We couldn't stand up for just one Danish embassy worker hanging like a dead body from a lamppost. In the future, it must also be the case that our local staff and interpreters at our Danish embassies and military missions in conflict zones can count on us if things go wrong. But it is not the case that all embassy workers in Lebanon and Pakistan and Palestine and from a representative office in Mali just have to go to Denmark. Of course they shouldn't. This was an exceptional situation. We also support the fact that the residence permit should be for two years. We do not think, like Enhedslisten and various others, that it should just be an unlimited stay. Because if, contrary to expectations, there should be proper conditions in Afghanistan over the next year or two or everything else equal, I think everyone can agree that this is a changeable situation, but then, of course, you have to go home again. We saw that, among other things. half of the Iraqi interpreters do for approx. 15 years ago. In the meantime, we should also remember that these Afghans are people who have worked for Denmark at our embassy as interpreters. We have invited you and their families here ourselves. They must enter the labour market as soon as possible and children must go to school. We should not repeat past mistakes where you end up creating a lot of social clients who fall outside Danish society. However, we do not in any way support any form of multi-wife or child bride, and that is why we are still moving away from the Minister's attempt to write it into the proposal and sneak it through the back door. So thank you to those parties that have also been critical of it. We are pleased that the wording is now out. The Minister also reacted very quickly, it must be said. That is why we support the bill following the changes that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192327	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192329	This special law gives access to probably more than 1,000 Muslims maybe asylum immigrants from Afghanistan. Is that a policy, as Mr. Marcus Knuth wants to be on target? How will Mr. Marcus Knuth face his constituents when he has to admit that he has relaxed the Danish immigration policy and by a special law brought 1,000 Muslim immigrants to Denmark? It seems to me completely baroque, and it has also been opened up to do so in the future when there are military operations abroad. That is not what I hear the Conservative People's Party claims to be their line right now, when they are really trying to polish off a tight foreign policy profile. But you relax foreign policy, you bring more Muslims to Denmark, you congratulate him on that, sir. Marcus Knuth. How can you measure it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192432	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192433	Now the Danish People's Party must remind me a little about whether the Danish People's Party was in the agreement to evacuate the Iraqi interpreters. It was the Danish People's Party, wasn't it? I may not remember correctly, but I would like to check that once, but everything else just as I said just now was a very, very special situation. After all, it is not the case that our embassy staff from Lebanon and Pakistan and from the office in Palestine and earlier in Syria and our current embassy in Iraq come here. However, this was a 20-year-long effort that completely collapsed and, as I said very clearly in my rapporteur's speech: on 9 August, although we were under massive criticism from the red parties, the Enhedslisten can at least agree to just hurry us to evacuate people, we said no, we will only do it the moment it really, really burns on. For I and I have been in Afghanistan, and I know how the Taliban did in 2000, 2001... their opponents hung as bodies in the lampposts, and we would not be able to stand up for that with Danish embassy workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192534	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192536	There are many persecuted people around the world who are suffering, but there are also many who are fighting for their own home countries, and these people should of course do so in order to improve conditions in their own home countries. The problem is that it can be very difficult to define very specific situations, and what will happen will be that next time you will also say that this is a special situation. But the most important thing is that with this special law, the Conservative People's Party brings many refugees to Denmark from the Islamic culture, which we know to be a burden on Denmark from experience. How, though, can the Conservative People's Party make such a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192621	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192622	Now Mrs Marie Krarup did not answer me whether the Danish People's Party was in the agreement on the Iraqi interpreters. I think they were. It may be that I remember wrong, and I will just go down and break up afterwards; it could be very, very interesting. This is not a question of asylum seekers being flown here as asylum seekers, it is a question of people who have helped Denmark, who have two years of residence, and who want to go back again, because the alternative, that is, that we, as the only Western country, left our employees behind at the risk of hanging from the lampposts, was not an alternative for which we could stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192654	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192657	Thank you. We are in the Enhedslisten very pleased that we managed to make this agreement, as Mr. Marcus Knuth himself also notes, although we have probably also had a little disagreement about speed, and we are also glad that it is a broad agreement. So I'd like to ask Mr. Marcus Knuth: What are we going to do about the people who have helped the Danish state and who are still in Afghanistan? How are we gonna help them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192725	For those who have worked directly for us, the opportunity remains open. As I understand it, there are so-called Danes' lists, although the pace is very, very low now, because the vast majority are out and there is still an opportunity to get on those lists, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has quite a lot of work to do for those who cross the border from Pakistan, who then get help. Then I am quite sure that Mrs Rosa Lund will say: well, what about those who have worked for an NGO many years ago and may have been involved in something peripheral? Listen: We don't have people, we don't have an embassy anymore, we don't have military people on earth, we don't have interpretations, we can't screen people, and there are people who have been in the Danish effort peripherally, who may have dug a well 10 years ago, but we must also draw the line somewhere, and we are in relation to how it has been drawn into this agreement, at least going very, very broadly with and much wider than we first discussed with the contracting parties on 9, 11 and 13 August.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192818	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192820	That's a perfectly correct assumption, sir. Marcus Knuth is doing here, so we think you can take that line a little bit. I'm just going to correct another assumption, like Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth had earlier on Enhedslisten's policy, namely that we just think that there should be unlimited residence. I just want to emphasise that we in the Enhedslist think it is very good that we have an independent Refugee Board, although we think the composition should be different, although we think that the requirements for permanent residence should be easier. However, we still believe that this is the decision of the Refugee Board. So there was just to correct that misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192857	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192859	Thank you, and what I was trying to say is that I think I have heard Enhedslisten say that they c. 1,000 Afghans who have come here should not have two years' stay, but a permanent stay from day one. Then I'm wrong, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192912	Thank you. There's no more questions, and then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012192919	Following the debate on Afghanistan, there is something that kind of plunges you into the eye, and it is that people often say that there must have been millions of Afghans, who were just unfortunate, that the Taliban could just come in and take over the country. Well, it's one of those things that I often think about. There weren't that many Taliban soldiers there either. How much was it really seen the Afghans wanted, and then can one call it Western conditions or democracy or other things? After all, the Afghan Government was not a great success either, but the Taliban were allowed to manage everything quite quickly. Such an understanding has also crept into the fact that it was quite agreed that at some point the Taliban would probably take over the whole of Afghanistan, and I recognise and I think it has come as a surprise to everyone how quickly this has happened, and I am not standing here saying that I would in any way be wiser than all defence intelligence agencies and all sorts of others. But if the understanding of the government and also of the parties that intend to vote in favour of this new citizens' vote against it was always intended to bring people here who had worked for Denmark or helped Denmark, according to preferences, and how to say it, that they should have come here all the time, then it is quite clear that why has one waited? If it were the attitude of the government and if it were a majority opinion that these people who had worked for Denmark should be here, if it were the case that at some point the Taliban took over and it was quite agreed that they would come to Denmark why had it not been set in motion? Instead, we are faced with a situation where for many of the world's countries, and also for Denmark, it ended up in total chaos. In New Citizens we have the view that you should of course evacuate the Danish embassy, people who have worked for the Danish embassy • and of course you should help • but the question is: Where to evacuate them to? In our view, they should have been evacuated to where they flew for the first time, that is to say to Pakistan, which was a safe area. The government should have made an agreement with the Pakistani Government that, of course, they could have been financed by Denmark, at least until you could have examined who these people were and what their relationship was. Then you would have avoided the chaos that you now have. We just have to remember, if we look back at the Iraqi interpreters who came here from the 2007-20008 effort, what the result was. Yeah, about 30 percent. of men are in employment, and 20% of men are in employment. of women are in employment. 20% by men are convicted under the Penal Code for drugs or any other 20 per cent. have been convicted. Then you can have a naive idea that all of a sudden it will only get much better with those who have now come here, but if you just figure it out in the short term and if they have the same employment rate as the Iraqi interpreters who came here at around 30%, you see that out of the 1,000 people it will be 700 who are on permanent public support, and if it is a net cost, after having returned and tax of DKK 150,000, it is over 100 million. kr. a year, it has cost us not to act in good time, not to imagine what will happen in the situation where the Taliban take over in Afghanistan. And then there is a massive bill with the Danish taxpayers. It could have been avoided, and New Citizens can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193337	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193341	Again: I agree with the views of the New Citizen far enough, but there is also a lack of realism. They say, "Well, couldn't we have just left them in Pakistan?" But that required Pakistan, which is an independent sovereign country, to have said yes to it, and I know it was not possible to do so. So when you were in a situation where there wasn't just such a little fire, but where it was all about to burst together, literally burst it all together. Where did you have to fly people, when there really was no country standing there saying they would like to take them? And then I just want to say, while Marie Krarup of the Danish People's Party listens, that the 2007 agreement on the evacuation of Iraqi interpreters to Denmark under the words we leave no one in the lurch was between the then government and it's just right before you become too sacred. Because it's easy enough to be holy in this situation, we can all be, but when you're in a situation and it all falls apart, you have to act after the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193440	I do not know exactly what the rapporteur has been up to with the Danish People's Party, but you will have to take it somewhere else. I would like to defend the position of New Citizens and the Danish People's Party's policy I will now leave the Danish People's Party to defend. In fact, I do not think that I said in my speech that this was just a matter of contact with the Pakistani Government, and it is of course interesting to know whether you have been asking and whether you have tried to go down that track, whether you could temporarily house these people on a fast-established base, in some hotels or in something, until you could have a screening. Have you looked into it to the bottom? Have you walked down all those paths? Can the government stand here on the platform and guarantee that you've tried all things before you brought them here? We can try to ask that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193540	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193541	The reason why I am asking about this is also that I still think that the rapporteur makes it sound so easy. So, on the Conservative side and on the Left side, it was not until 11 August, 4 days before the fall of Kabul, that we agreed at the last moment to this agreement, because we think that we should only do this when it is at the last moment. That said, we didn't see any other options. Pakistan, Iran or some other base: those options were not there. There was only, as I see it, the opportunity that the government was pursuing. Everything else equal should have been done much faster compared to the processed, but when we first stood there and it all burned on, there were no other options just to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193624	However, I hope that the rapporteur agrees that when they were flown from Afghanistan and Pakistan, they were actually in security that then people would have been evacuated to safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193633	Thank you. There are no more comments. And there is no rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance or the Christian Democrats, so that is why it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012193649	Thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill and for the debate we have had this evening. To begin with, I would like to say that it is one of the rare cases that we are faced with dealing with such a special situation as we are dealing with now in the field of foreigners. As you know, the proposal for this bill is that after more than 20 years of presence in Afghanistan with broad political support, the Danish authorities have carried out an extremely complex evacuation effort. This is due to the significantly deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan in connection with the military withdrawal. According to the government, Denmark has a special obligation to the foreigners and their families who in Afghanistan have assisted Danish authorities, NGOs and international organisations such as the UN and who are now staying in Denmark on the basis of the Danish evacuation. That is why I am also pleased with the broad political understanding, which has been and has been about the evacuation, and which, in addition to the whole question of evacuation, also means that a legislative proposal on a special residence basis is being put forward for those concerned, the draft law that we are debating today. The purpose of the bill is to provide a dignified solution for the people who have assisted, inter alia, in Afghanistan. the Danish authorities. I am glad that it seems that there is broad political support for that solution for those concerned, of course, but also for the sake of Danish society. It's our opinion in the government that these people are going quickly into Danish society: Dad and Mom are going to work, the children are going to school, and they are going to football and become part of Danish society. The draft law provides for the possibility of granting a temporary residence permit of two years' duration. However, criticism has been levelled at the fact that the residence permit cannot be extended beyond the two years, and the question has been raised as to why the persons concerned are not only granted asylum instead of a temporary stay under a special law. First of all, the draft law does not alter the fact that, of course, the evacuees also have the right to apply for asylum. They have been able to do so from the moment they set their feet on Danish soil, as other foreigners can. However, we do not know whether they fulfil the conditions for granting asylum. As in all asylum cases, it will be the Foreign Affairs Agency and, ultimately, the Independent Refugee Board to assess whether the conditions for asylum are met. However, this procedure may take time, when applicants will typically be accommodated in asylum centres and where the opportunities for working or training are very limited. In addition, the processing of asylum applications, where the changed circumstances in Afghanistan have an impact on the decision, has subsequently been suspended. The Refugee Board decided on 16 August this year. This means that those concerned will be able to look forward to even longer in the asylum centres. For the government it has therefore been important to offer the evacuees a residence basis so that they can quickly get out of the centres and become part of society. There has also been criticism that, on the basis of the draft submitted for consultation, the impression could be given that the legislation should recognise multi-wife or marriages with minors. I would therefore like to stress that the government will neither now nor in future accept multi-wife or marriages with minors. Actually, I don't think there's really a single member of the Folketing who does. That is why the draft law has also been amended so that it is now clear that, following the draft law, no residence permit can be granted to more than one wife or to underage spouses. I hope that this will eliminate this misunderstanding. It has been a special and very rapid process for the drafting of the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. To conclude, I would like to stress that I and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration are of course available to answer questions about the bill. And I would also like to repeat what I have said earlier that I would like to come to committee and do a more technical review of the legislative proposal if there is a wish to do so. Thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194046	Thank you. Then there are a number of questions. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194051	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister, for changing the wording, because the wording suggested that if you had come here with more wives or a minor spouse, you could get a stay. That's what the original bill put up for. So everything else equal must of course have been suspected by the Minister that there may be people in the categories that have come here. I have also written to the Minister asking what is up and down in this. How many people have come here in those categories? We know from the media that there are the two wives in question. Can the Minister state with certainty that there are no other cases? That's one. The second is: why did the wording, as was done, when it is the case that in the agreement we had made with the government, we made it very, very clear that people with more wives or underage spouses should not be part of the evacuation agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194140	It is true that this was stated in the agreement fortunately because it is also sensible and therefore it should not have been included in the draft that was sent in consultation. It's my responsibility. What the government is aiming for is the bill put forward for the Folketing, and I think it is quite clear that we do not accept this kind of thing and that the legislation should not indirectly start to recognise this kind of thing. How many are these? After all, interviews are being conducted with the people who have landed in Denmark and who have been evacuated. The interviews are not finished yet, but so far I and I have held a meeting with the Executive Board of the Immigration Authority this morning. I have again been confirmed that they have not encountered minor spouses. But I must stress yet you have not encountered anyone who has entered with more than one spouse, but it is true that there are two women who have entered, who say that they have been married to the same man at the same time. That man is now dead, so they are to be considered a widow.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194242	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194243	So let me take this at a more positive angle, for the issues of crime and unemployment, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen referred to in relation to the Iraqi interpreters, of course, comes from a question that I myself have been involved in asking a very long time ago. What's the minister doing to make sure we don't make the same mistake with those Afghans? I hope most people can go back home. Maybe it's a little wishful thinking. In the case that some of them are going to stay here, what is to be done to ensure that we do not end up in the same groove as the Iraqi interpreters, but that we get them into the labour market, that they do not become criminals and that wives do not just sit at home as unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194319	I would like to start by saying that I actually think that was a rather interesting answer to the question that was asked, because it tells us something about what the challenges are here too. We must not pretend to each other that in Danish society we were completely impossible to integrate in 2007 or 2008, and that today we are just world champions. We must realise that this is a huge challenge. I would not be surprised if, in a few years' time, we also see an over-representation in unemployment statistics, crime statistics and other statistics for this group. We must, of course, do everything we can to make these statistics look as beautiful as possible, but I also believe that we have reached that point in the history of Danish immigration policy, that we must stop telling each other that this time everything will be fine. This time, too, we're gonna have huge challenges, unfortunately. We must, of course, get women to work; we must, of course, do everything we can. But we have to stop telling each other that it's just gonna be a huge success story, because then we're gonna lie to each other again, again, again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194416	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194419	Thank you. I would like to ask a little whether the Minister is aware that some of the people who have come here come from areas where the Taliban had already taken over power.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194435	As I also mentioned to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, the Immigration Authority has not finished conducting the interviews yet, but the Taliban actually had control over quite large parts of Afghanistan, including before Kabul fell. So I would be very surprised if, out of a collection of many hundreds of Afghans, there were not to be one who had lived in an area where the Taliban had control. I can't say for sure, but it would just surprise me a lot. That is why I would also like to emphasise that there was no right of asylum assessment of the people who were evacuated before they got on the plane. So, we do not know whether, in a Danish foreign law context, they actually need protection. We will only find out if they seek asylum and an ordinary asylum procedure is under way. This bill will give people a residence permit without a right of asylum assessment. In connection with this bill you will not be interested in whether they come from one province or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194530	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194532	However, if you recognise that there are probably people coming from a place where the Taliban already had power, you have to say that they were probably not in immediate danger. Then the question is: why do those people have to wait two years before they have to start an asylum process? Why do we not start the asylum process immediately? Why do you give a free pass where you have to pay people's stay in Denmark, which is potentially not entitled to stay in Denmark? Why is it that these people are not immediately treated for asylum when they have not done the screening that the minister says they have not done?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194605	So, whether they have lived in areas where government-controlled forces or the Taliban have had control, we cannot stand here today and see that they have probably had no need of protection, because that requires an individual assessment every time. I would also like to emphasise that these people can apply for asylum today or yesterday. In fact, there are over a hundred of those who have already applied for asylum. They can easily apply for asylum even if they also get this residence. This bill simply gives them a basis for residence and hopefully from January we can get the first out of the Danish municipalities. They get a work permit, they can become part of the Danish society, and in parallel with that there can be an asylum treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194650	Thank you. Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194652	Thank you. I am concerned about the everyday life of the Afghan evacuees. I would like us to try to address the fact that when the special law comes to an end and the sunset clause sets in, and if asylum procedures are still suspended, the applicants should, according to the logic expressed by the Minister before, sit in an asylum centre. So, for example, you can... say that a family living and living in Holstebro suddenly has to return to an asylum centre because asylum treatment is still suspended? This example is based on the fact that they, for example. is seeking both schemes, because I can imagine that almost everyone will seek both schemes. I hope that the Minister is on the subject. Can we somehow put something in the law that allows families to continue their daily lives, regardless of whether or not their asylum treatment is suspended?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194748	After all, it is difficult to assess whether the Refugee Board will maintain their decision to suspend decisions on asylum cases for applicants from Afghanistan, so we are already a little on rocky ground. If we end up in that situation, I would say that, even if you have an asylum case, under certain conditions you have the possibility of staying outside the support of the Foreigners' Authority, that is. outside the asylum centres while you have an asylum case going on. But it is under certain conditions that I cannot on my fingers here. So I would like to call on the author to put a written question and then I will try to make it a little clearer under what conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194833	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194835	In 2007, the Danish People's Party helped to conclude an agreement on Iraqi interpreters, but it was an agreement that covered less than 200 people including families. I do not think that the Danish People's Party would have supported that agreement today or I am quite sure that we would not have done so, among other things. on the basis of relatively poor experience. It is not an obligation to take people to Denmark from a country, even if there are bad conditions there. I do not see that we have a moral obligation to the Afghan interpreters. But what I want to ask the Foreign Minister is: how likely are the people to whom this special law now gives a two-year temporary stay in Denmark in ten years' time or in 15 years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194934	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012194935	I think I will start by saying that I do not think there is any moral obligation. I really think we should be careful not to mix morality into what we do in this room. But I think that we have a political obligation and that, after all, is what we are dealing with here in the Parliamentary Chamber because they have helped Danish forces and the Danish Embassy. Norway has evacuated around 1,100, Sweden has evacuated around 1,100, Germany has evacuated over 5,000, and Denmark has evacuated almost 1,000. Well, it's not like we're sticking out all the way. This is something that has been done by a very, very large number of countries that have been in Afghanistan. I simply have no basis for assessing how many of them will be in Denmark in ten years' time. I simply have no idea. If they are granted asylum, then we can see from the normal statistics that the majority of people who end up receiving asylum in Denmark end up here 10 years later. I guess if you look over your shoulder after the adoption of what has been called §7 paragraph. 3 and subsequent paradigm shift, especially among Somalis and Syrians more who have been repatriated, but it is still away the minority of those who have come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195053	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195054	Well, my expectation is that this is precisely an opening to asylum immigration from Afghanistan, and we cannot be familiar with the Danish people. That is not what the Danish people want; it is not what the Minister has gone to the polls; it is not what any of the parties who sign the agreement have said they would do. It is a relaxation of immigration policy, which is an opening-up to asylum immigration, that is to make Denmark more Islamic. And, as the Minister also says, there is no moral obligation. Well, congratulations. I think it's sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195129	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195131	I think that the Danish People's Party's question should be careful not to conclude too quickly what the Danes want. I feel at least myself that I want to limit the influx to Denmark of asylum seekers from the countries in and around the Middle East, but I actually think that when it comes to the people who have helped Danish soldiers, international organisations such as NATO and the EU or our Danish embassy, we must politically do what we can to get them evacuated. That is why I think what is in this draft law is right, and I also believe that quite a lot of Danes would agree with me on it. At any rate, I can hear from the debate here that parties representing quite a lot of Danes agree with the government on this, and I understand that too, because it may also have an impact on how we will be able to act militarily in the world in the future. If we were one of the few countries in Europe that had not evacuated people, then I think it would have been difficult to be Denmark on the foreign policy stage in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195233	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195235	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister confirmed from the platform that these people can seek asylum right now. Obviously it is necessary to get confirmation, then I can save that question. Then I would like to ask the Minister what action is being taken to ensure that there are sufficient resources, that there are enough case officers to deal quickly with these cases and the cases before the Refugee Board, as a result of the fact that many more Afghans will seek asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195314	Thank you. Well, I might even be able to say that this morning I was informed that 136 of the people who have been evacuated have already applied for asylum. Half of those who have been evacuated are children in such rough numbers. Half are adults, and there are also some who should not have been evacuated, but it is, after all, a relatively small group. The immigration authorities will soon begin an information campaign in which the evacuees will be informed that they can apply for this residence permit, but it is clear that the Foreigners' Board will not be able to grant permission or refuse until the Danish Parliament has dealt with the bill in the third instance. However, we can start to conduct the interviews, we can start to collect the documents that are needed, so that we can start to deal with matters quite quickly afterwards. And as I also mentioned a little earlier, it is our ambition that the first ones will be able to start sending out to Danish municipalities in January. Yes, that does not mean that everyone will come out in January, I can already guarantee that they will not, but our ambition is that the first ones will come out in January and that a few months after that you would have liked to have come through the whole pile.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195427	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195427-2	I think I am more unfortunate with Minister for Foreign Affairs today than I usually am, so I venture to ask one more question: what about those who have had a humanitarian stay, that is, those who have been evacuated from Afghanistan humanitarianly and therefore do not fall under this special law? Is their only option to seek asylum in goose eyes? Or will the Minister somehow get them into this special law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195457	Well, the special law is actually for a number of different groups. There are those we call protagonists, and they are the ones who, for example. has been an interpreter or work at the embassy. Then there are family members of the main character, they can also get a residence permit under the special law. Then there are some who are not the main characters or the family members of the main character, yet for inscrutable reasons have come on board the plane. That's what I said. It's not that many, but there are some, and to them you have to say that they can apply for this residence, but that they can't get it, and that they can, if they want, see if they can apply for a different residence in Denmark. However, paragraph 1 is not certain that they will be able to do so, and paragraph 2, even if they do, will of course also be a temporary ground for residence, which will have to be renewed on a regular basis. And right now, as I said, the authorities are not making decisions on asylum, so we cannot put them in any position to decide when that decision will be taken. However, although it was a chaotic situation in Kabul, I would say that it is, after all, a very small minority of those who were on board the aircraft that we did not want to be on board the aircraft.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195615	And then there are no more questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195645	It's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democrat who opens the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195652	Thank you for that, President. I am here as a substitute for our employment rapporteur, who is prevented. On Sunday it is exactly 1 year ago that a majority in the Danish Parliament decided to strengthen employees' rights massively with a right to a previous pension, a right that makes a difference to many thousands of Danes who have had a long, hard working life. They can now retire and have some good senior years. In August of this year, the Ministry opened the applications. The need has proved to be great. An inventory in mid-September shows that nearly 20,000 Danes have applied for a previous pension. I am glad that they succeeded in giving the Danes the opportunity to retire in a good and proper way not because they have been through a long investigation process, but because they have the right to it and have themselves decided it. I am also pleased that this can already become a reality for the first citizens at the next turn of the year. For the vast majority of people, the right to a previous pension is unproblematic. The systems are working. However, for some it may be difficult to move to a previous pension because it may be difficult to obtain the evidence required from their previous employment relationship, that is to say employment relationships, which are now quite many years back. Not least, it can be difficult for them to get that documentation quickly enough. Since the early retirement pension application was opened, the National Archives has made available a special form in order to be able to apply for appropriate proof of seniority in the labour market in accordance with the current rules. Right now, there are between 9 and 12 months of waiting time to get answers. This could potentially delay those who have the right to move to early retirement at the beginning of next year. Therefore, the draft law here can help speed up the process by ensuring that their request for documentation is processed more quickly so that they can be clarified quickly. That is, of course, only fair in our view, because they can then make use of the entitlement to a previous pension at the turn of the year that they have. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195900	Thank you for that and there are no comments, so we move on. Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012195911	Thank you very much. Since our employment rapporteur, Hans Andersen, cannot be here tonight, I will give his speech. As the Socialist rapporteur said, the bill here is about ensuring that people who need documentation of their working lives can have a special access to their information from the National Archives. Although the Left has not supported Arnepensionen, we would like to support the possibility of this access. So if they are entitled to a previous pension, they can get the necessary documentation from the National Archives. It is not a proposal that has grown in the backyard of the Left. However, once people have a right, we would like to help ensure that the documentation is also clearer. That is why the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200004	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200018	Thank you. In the case of people applying for early retirement, it has been found that those who have to obtain information about their employment in early years on the labour market have come across a lengthy procedure in the National Archives. That's not fair. They have been promised a speedy procedure. In order to remedy this problem, this bill allows applicants for early retirement to request relevant information from the National Archives without applying the provisions of the Archive Act on the right to self-access. The National Archives must thus provide relevant information to citizens who so request for payment Danish treatment of the citizen's application for early retirement. The provision of information will take place independently of the Archive Act's own acces and instead via a special entrance to the National Archives for applicants of early retirement. With the special entrance, the National Archives will provide information to citizens more quickly than would otherwise be possible. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200136	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200145	When we were negotiating on the possibility of early retirement, this issue was raised several times. We tried to take account of the fact that not everyone is taking side training as an accountant, but as one can imagine has thrown their payrolls away from jobs they had back in the 1970s. We have thus partly taken into account the situation by calculating the years to qualify for early retirement so that it is not full years, and by going in and putting the cuts in some places where we thought that most would be able to provide the documentation. But we talked several times about the fact that there would probably be some who could get in trouble with it and would have difficulty finding it. But we also agreed with each other that we would have to look at the situation afterwards and see how wrong it was, and that is one of the situations we are facing now. With this bill, the National Archives will be able to provide information independently of the rules of the Archive Act. In this way, it will be easier for the National Archives to help those applicants who can now only request proof of seniority in the labour market via a special form. That's why the SF supports this bill, of course. But I think we must also say that it is not certain that we are at the end of it. It's possible that this isn't enough, and then we'll have to see if there's any other adjustments. But this is a bill that takes into account a discussion we actually had in those days when we negotiated the right to early retirement, and we have to reach out to those people who are now trying to cut their working lives with employment and contracts and payrolls from a past time together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200337	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200344	Thank you very much, President. Just as the rapporteur of the Left put it, Arnepensionen has not grown in the backyard of the Radical Left. It is not because we believe that this right to early retirement reduces the workforce and pulls some healthy people out of the labour market. Fortunately, however, we are also engaged in negotiations right now, a path of reform, in order to resolve the problems we have in the labour market with a shortage of labour. Having said all that, a majority in the Folketing has given some citizens a right, precisely the right to an early retirement pension, and when you have a right in the law, we in the Radical Left do not think it should be that you cannot prove past working conditions that must be decisive for whether or not you can make use of that right. That is why we also support this bill. I will also be asking questions during the committee's reading and maybe tabling amendments, because is there anywhere else in the system where there are some citizens who have a right but who are prevented from using that right because there are long waiting times to obtain documentation from the National Archives? As I understand it, there are others. some Danish citizens who do not have their old school papers on them but have left the 7th grade, for example. and are unable to prove that they have a language level corresponding to Danish examination 3 and that they are caught in the context of spouse reunification if their spouse, for example, is unable to demonstrate that they have a language level corresponding to Danish examination 3 and that they are caught up in the context of spouse reunification. is from abroad. So in the Radical Left, we think it is very good that help is being given to speed up the procedure for obtaining these documents in the National Archives, but we would also like to ask whether there are other parts of the legislation where you are prevented from doing so in this right that a majority has given you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200558	Thank you. There are no comments here either, so we go further. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200604	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we think it is very good that we make an easier opportunity to get through the National Archives in order to document that work was done at the time in the 1970s. Everyone knows, of course, that bureaucracy was of a smaller scale at the time, and it is guaranteed in every way that it is more difficult to follow the requirements that are currently in evidence. I would just have liked the Ministry to have accepted a simpler and less resource-intensive solution, such as: to approve a-box membership as a way of measuring it, including: because it was inconceivable at the time that you were a member of an unemployment fund if you had not been entitled to benefits. So there were simpler ways to do that, and I hope that we may be able to solve the last problems that are involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200655	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200701	The Government's proposal to set up a new scheme in the National Archives to help applicants for early retirement is part of the larger bill, which is not only associated with the cost of 12.1 million. kr. The bill is part of a total bill which relates to the so-called Arnepension, which means that the supply of labour falls by 9,000 people, not exactly conducive in the run-up to a boom, for the labour market stands and screams on several hands and heads. Leaving thousands of people out of the labour market means that the bill lands on staggering 6.5 billion. kr., and thus the total loss of wealth in 2025 as a result of a previous pension to Arne and worn out will amount to just over 10 billion. kr. We in the Conservative People's Party think this is the wrong way to go. In this way the government pulls both people out of the workforce and makes Denmark overall poorer. I think it is irresponsible that the government has not found the 12.1 million. kr. to operate and manage the provision of citizens' information in the case of previous pensions, when at the same time it has been decided to spoil the Danes' tax dollars to withdraw healthy people from the labour market in order to find amounts of billions. We are concerned about the matter and find it really strange that the parties that have concluded this agreement are not fully in control of it. On the other hand, it is not fair for a majority to have given a right to some citizens who are now in a mess because they cannot prove. Against this background, we look forward to following the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200837	Thank you. The next one is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200843	Thank you. Like so much else, the intention behind Arnepensionen was actually good. You wanted to help people who were worn out and had been on the labour market for many years, but that was not what Arnepensionen really did, because a lot of people moved from retirement to Arnepensionen. That was also one of the reasons why we in the New Citizens' Party could not support it because it did not really solve the problem that was actually out there. Now it is about having access to find out who can get on Arnepension and how they can get on it, and we can of course support that, because now the legislation is there, and it must of course be the case that the citizens can have what the Folketing has decided, even though we did not agree with the way it was done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200925	Thank you. There are no rapporteurs for the Liberal Alliance and the Christian Democrats. Then it is the working Minister for Employment, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012200942	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the good treatment of the draft law on special access to the National Archives for applicants for early retirement. We in the government are proud that such an early retirement right has been introduced and we are pleased that the first citizens who have worn through a long working life will be able to retire early by 1 January 2022. We've been waiting for that for a long time. But it has actually also gone very fast, because it is precisely now 1 year and 2 days since the government, together with Dansk Folkeparti, SF and Enhedslisten, entered into an agreement on the entitlement to early retirement. I would like to sign for the good cooperation we have had in this regard, and the joy that we have come so far, I share with you. It has been important for the government that with early retirement there is a right to a right that people can trust they have. I think we have succeeded quite well in that. If we focus alone on those applicants who can move to early retirement in 2022, we can see that as much as 73 per cent. has been granted the maximum entitlement to an early retirement pension. I think this shows that the scheme is working as intended. The vast majority of people do not experience any problems in applying for early retirement, and that is a good thing. With the bill, we will particularly help those applicants who have the opportunity to move to early retirement in 2022, but who are currently lacking concrete evidence of their link with the labour market. The right to early retirement is based on objective criteria in terms of the number of years on the labour market. The scheme is designed so that the calculation of seniority is based as far as possible on verifiable data from public registers. But not all information is available in the register back in time. Some applicants just lack the last seniority in order to be able to move to early retirement, while others lack more. In some situations, therefore, the citizen may need to submit supplementary documentation for an application for an early retirement pension. Already today, the citizen has the opportunity to obtain his own information in the National Archives, but with the bill we will help them to have faster processing of their request for documentation. I am therefore very pleased that the bill allows us to have special access to the National Archives if the citizen lacks documentation for an application for early retirement. I look forward to the committee's good treatment of the draft law, and I would also like to say here that I am pleased that, regardless of whether you represent a party that has supported the original draft law on early retirement or not, we can agree that once such a right has been established, the citizen must of course also have the opportunity to obtain the necessary documentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201229	Thank you. There are no comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201241	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201307	October 1st this year was the anniversary of the first homosexual wedding in world history. It is almost 30 years since 11 homosexual couples entered into a registered partnership at Copenhagen City Hall. With that event Denmark wrote itself into history as a country where there is room for diversity and space to love whoever you want, regardless of gender. History underlines that we, as a country and as a society, have helped to push developments in the right direction and, compared with other countries, we are doing well when we come to the security, well-being and equal opportunities for homosexuals, bisexuals, transsexuals and non-sexuals. But even if we do well, we can still do better. For the statistics and history unfortunately tell their clear language. Up to 2,500 people are subjected each year to violence motivated by homo- or transphobia. More than one in four people have deliberately avoided certain places for fear of harassment and assault. The majority of lgbti people have been harassed because of their sexual orientation, and every 5 lgbti person has been subjected to physical or sexual violence in the last 5 years. We can do better. That is why last year the government presented a ten-point plan for legislative changes aimed at strengthening the rights and giving equal opportunities to people with disabilities in Denmark. Because in Denmark, you have to be able to be who you are and love who you want, without fear of discrimination or hate crimes. So with this initiative, we will, among other things. strengthen the fight against discrimination, hate crimes, hate statements both inside and outside the labour market. That is the part of the proposal that we are now going to deal with. Because, as the legislation is drafted today, discrimination is prohibited because of sexual orientation in the labour market. The same protection does not apply outside the labour market. Today's rules do not provide for the possibility of appealing to the Equal Treatment Board, and then it is not clear enough in current legislation that it is prohibited to discriminate, harass or expose others to hate crimes simply because they are trans- or non-gender. We can do better than that. The draft law makes it clear to everyone that it is forbidden to discriminate, harass, discriminate and commit hate crimes against homosexuals, bisexuals, transsexuals and non-sexuals both at and outside the workplace. At the same time, we provide for the right of appeal to the Equal Treatment Board, which also provides for the possibility of reimbursement. In addition, it is also proposed to strengthen the protection of people with disabilities against hate speech by including the group in relation to the penal code provisions on hate speech. In the social democracy we have always been and will continue to be involved in guaranteeing fundamental rights for all. We will insist that in Denmark you should be able to walk freely around all places hand in hand with the one you want and have the right to be part of a community, regardless of who you are, who you love, and what you look like. Because it has to be easier to be who you are. And we want a society where it is clear in the legislation for everyone that there must be room for diversity. That is why the Social Democratic Party can support the bill here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201606	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201611	Thank you very much. Of course, we cannot disagree in this House about the need to treat other people properly regardless of their sexuality. It's hard to believe there should be two opinions about it in here. But what is relevant is when to take legislative action. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to give me the name of the company (s) that has failed and that simply cannot deal with the problems themselves, which requires legislative action.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201643	I do not think there are any companies that can find out. I have no examples of this. However, there are plenty of examples of homosexuals who are discriminated against in different contexts, and now it is also covered by the fact that you can complain if, for example, it does. it can be in a football club, it can be in a leisure offer or something. You have the opportunity to complain if you are mistreated. There are reports that evidently show that homosexuals do around.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201709	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201711	But does the government have such little confidence in the company owners that they really don't think they're able to solve this kind of problem themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201721	I don't know if it's the same proposal we're talking about. This gives you the opportunity to complain to the Equal Treatment Board outside the labour market. So we are talking about people who are discriminated against elsewhere than in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201730	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201734	Thank you. I'd like to talk a little bit about § 266b. In the view of the rapporteur, would it be forbidden to say that there are only two genders and that people who believe that there are more genders are wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201756	No, I certainly don't think so. However, we have had some imams that have not just once, but repeatedly, called for the killing of homosexuals. Well, that's definitely going to fall under this paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201807	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201809	But who will judge whether that group has been reproached? I mean, if, for example... are some Christian organisations that do not recognise, for example. homosexuality or transgenderism or other things, will they still have the opportunity to express the attitude that they have, and which is not an illegal attitude, with this new legislation, or can you potentially get into something where it will be described as illegal if someone feels insulted about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201850	No, I do not see that one should not be able to say that one is opposed to homosexuality. But when you talk about rude and gross generalizations and something like that, it can happen. Fortunately, I cannot come up with examples of any church priests who have said so, but there have been examples of Danish Islamic religions that have invited imams to Denmark many times, which have been extremely insulting to homosexuals.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201908	Thank you. Then we go to the next rapporteur, Mrs Fatma Øktem, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012201916	Thank you very much. I was just about to welcome the new minister. The government's draft law here seeks to strengthen the protection of people with disabilities against discrimination, hate crimes and hate phrases, as well as to protect people with disabilities from hateful utterances. It is a wish and an intention that we share in the Left. For there should be no doubt that we in the Left are in favour of all citizens feeling safe and free in this country, regardless of who they are and what gender they identify with, and that discrimination based on gender identity can never be accepted. The proposal is based on a review of legislation implemented across a number of ministries launched in June 2018. As can also be seen from the proposal, it is not something that revolutionises what is currently in force in relation to both discrimination, hate crimes and hateful statements against transpersonals, as it is already the case law to include this group in the relevant legislation. This is therefore an explicit statement and recognition of the need for protection of a vulnerable group. That is a good intention which, as I said in the Left, we are in favour of. There are, however, some ambiguities in the consultation notes, in relation to how the proposal, for example, puts the municipalities, sports associations and jobs, and there are a number of consultation notes which raise some concerns and mention ambiguities. What is the position of persons who believe that there are only two biological genders and who do not want to recognise concepts such as gender identity, gender expressions and gender characteristics? After all, it is not criminal, nor should it be, to have that conviction. But it is not difficult to imagine a situation in which it is either seen by some as discrimination or even as hateful to hold onto that conviction, even if you do it quite peacefully. As I have said, we see many good intentions in the proposal, but the concerns, the questions and the ambiguities mean that we want to continue working on it and we look forward to constructive committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202147	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202206	Thank you very much. We must be decent to each other, and no matter who it is, no matter where we go, and we shall never make hateful utterances to each other! And then it doesn't matter whether you're gay, redhead, fat or dwarf or whatever. Hate is hate, and it must not be accepted. And you don't fight a problem by creating ten new ones. If we go in and say that, and this is unacceptable when it comes to these groups, but say that it may not matter when it is the others, then you go in and give some people a tool to draw a sacrificial card where it would have been better if we helped them to take responsibility for themselves and for their own situation. I have not been contacted by any leisure club or other associations who have said: this problem we are simply not able to solve; it is quite incalculable; we simply have to ask you politicians to intervene. I haven't experienced that. I am not saying that this is not happening, but I say: we just have to be careful when we have to take legislative action and when we have to have confidence that people can figure out how to solve this themselves. Furthermore, I would say that people are given an opportunity to draw a sacrificial card and say: Yes, violated! Now I have a legal home here. So when you give people that opportunity, you help to create a lot of dissension, and then you help to take away the individual's personal responsibility, so that people just find comfort in a home of law instead of going to the person in question to say, "Do you know what? So what you said made me sad, and I would ask you not to call me that in future. We need to be careful about digging ditches between people, and we also need to be careful, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentioned the fact that one cannot be critical, that one cannot express one's critical attitude, that one cannot say: do you know what? I don't care what sexuality people have, but why should they flash it in a pride parade, and why should I have the most private thing a human has, a human's sexuality, imposed? The fact that we cannot say this critically means that we are then creating a huge problem for freedom of expression in Denmark. I therefore believe that we should be very, very careful with this legislation, which can cause more problems than it can solve. And then we don't have to go in there and discriminate people like that and say, "Don't say "boo" to a homosexual, but you can do it to someone who's old." Well, we politicians have no imagination at all to imagine all the things people can be teased with. So instead of trying and sitting and making some lists of what it could be, compared to if you were that or that or that, I'd say: stop it, we'll never end that list. So instead, we just have to say, you know what? Hate is hate, and it is not right; it is unacceptable. But at the same time, I do not think it is something we should do from in here. I mean, it's kind of like we're gonna make a bill that people can't spit on the floor or they're gonna put garbage in the trash can. Oh, come on! People can do this on their own out there. We have no other example. That is why we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202602	Thank you. There are some comments. Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202605	Thank you. A year ago, I think it was, a story came up about two women who were married and wanted to join a cooperative society and were rejected. They had first been approved, and then they were rejected, and they were quite sure that it was because the cooperative found out that they were gay. And they had nowhere to go and complain about the discrimination they had encountered, because you cannot complain to the Equal Treatment Board if it is outside the labour market. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a completely crazy situation for people to be rejected in relation to having a place to live because they have a certain sexuality? And isn't it good that we legislate about it now, so that you have a place to go and complain and then, of course, the court must find out who was right, but so that you actually have a place to go and take your case?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202654	I think that there is a very good example of people drawing the sacrificial card: we are rejected because we are homosexuals. No, they cannot prove that; the rapporteur cannot prove that. It doesn't say they're rejected because they're gay. It is something that is going on in their heads; it is something that they themselves believe. Well, you can't use that as a case to complain to the Equal Treatment Board about. There may then be a thousand other parameters that make them rejected. So that's exactly how dangerous it is if we pass this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202722	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202724	The rapporteur's answer is precisely why we need this legislation. Because when you are a minority in Denmark, you experience both hate crimes and discrimination. And now we're gonna figure out a place where those minorities can go. And if it's something that's going on up in their heads, the courts can figure it out. But at least now you can take a case. And I simply cannot understand why the Danish People's Party does not see it as a positive development.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202748	Well, that's just because it's an example of how you get bombarded with cases like this because you understand up in your head that it's because of your sexuality and not because there are other reasons why you're unfit. Well, it can be a terrible trouble if people do it up their heads. If they have something concrete to hold on to, I think it's okay if you have something you can document. But on the basis of what the questioner is enriching me with now, it does not seem that there is any evidence of it, and then it just shows that there are a lot of such cases coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202822	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202823	But that is what we are trying to legislate on, that is, if you can document it, you have a place to go with your documentation and get it tested. After all, no one is suggesting that you should not say "boo" to homosexuals or that a complaint can be upheld without proof. So what is the draft law that the rapporteur has read? At least it's not L 18.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202856	In situations where you may feel offended by a way you are treated, it is first and foremost important that you go to the person in question whom you feel has offended you. First of all, it is important to resolve such problems where they actually arise. If we are going to sicken some people or make some people a victim, they will complain about it on that basis instead of solving the problems where they are, and in the Danish People's Party we are always in favour of solving the problems where they arise. If it's in a workplace or if it's in a leisure club, let's sit down and talk about it, instead of having a legal home like that help dig ditches between people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202948	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012202951	So, I simply have to ask the rapporteur again what kind of legislative proposal the rapporteur has been reading, because this is not the case here. It is not new laws that are being introduced. We are adding some bans on discrimination to something that already exists. So I think that what I really would like to ask the Danish People's Party is whether, with the existing equal treatment law and the existing equality law as examples, that is to say, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of skin color or gender, we should simply remove it. Should we remove existing legislation so that discrimination on grounds of gender is also legal, that someone must be employed because they are women or because they are men, and that this must be done quite legally, and then you just have to talk about it afterwards? Is that what the Danish People's Party means?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203042	I think we are on a huge slope when we go in and choose some groups in society and say that we must not discriminate here, but we must do so everywhere else. We can do that if you, for example. is thick or redhead, or whatever it may be. I think it is so problematic that we cannot just say in general: dear friends, hate is hate, and that is not right. Whether it's because you're a homosexual or a woman or whatever it may be, it's just not okay. We must not be able to discriminate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203112	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203116	Thank you. What I have a little problem with in what the rapporteur says is the fact that you should be careful not to draw a sacrificial card. Now I would like to read out some quotes and see if the rapporteur thinks it is a sacrificial card that you draw if you, as a homosexual, find it difficult to do this. One is from the Imam Muhammad Jamal in Skive, which compares homosexuality to animal sex. We have a Kamal El Mekki who was a guest in the Danish Islamic Religion and has compared it to paedophilia. Can the rapporteur understand that it is not to draw a sacrificial card if, as a homosexual, you are actually very provoked and very offended and very sad when someone says these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203153	Yes, of course I understand that people can get upset and feel offended if they are exposed to such things. Now, as the rapporteur says here, there are no examples of anything that has happened in one-to-one communication at the football club or elsewhere. Now it's some people sitting on TV saying everyone's like that. I think that if there are examples and that is what I have simply not been able to look at organisations that come and say that this is quite wrong, then we must take it seriously and fight it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203226	But there are examples of this. There are examples of the fact that the national association, LGBT+ Denmark, actually has examples of this happening here. So I think the rapporteur should take this seriously instead of saying that it is a sacrificial card. These weren't things said on television; they were things said in the mosque or something. But it doesn't matter. It is, of course, the fact that you can say some things that are so crude that the words actually have meaning and where you do not draw a sacrificial card. It's not about whether you can say that there are two genders or that you can't flash in the shower. It is far, far more serious if it is to lead to a judgment. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203300	Yes, I hope so, because I have not been able to see what it is actually applicable here. Nor have I been able to specify whether we will then also protect the people who are exposed to that, for example. homosexuals violate them by flashing their sexuality in front of them. It can, for example, be done. be that you sit and eat your lunch quietly at work and a colleague sits across the street and says: 'By the way, I'm gay.' Well, sexuality is one of the most private things. That human being is embarrassed. What protects them from that? I haven't been able to see that out of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203339	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203341	Thank you. When it is the case that one in three people has felt discriminated against on the basis of their identity, does the rapporteur also believe that it is just something that is going on in their heads and that causes them to draw a sacrificial card?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203401	This is exactly the spot on: when they have felt discriminated against because of sexuality, shall we sit and legislate on the basis of what people feel? Well, we've got a lot on our plate. That's what I think is the problem. We must then legislate on the basis of facts, because of what is happening in society and not because I feel
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203423	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203424	Does the rapporteur have the imagination to imagine that some groups in society are being discriminated against more than others, for example? people with another sexuality or people with a different skin color, people with disabilities? Does the rapporteur have the imagination to imagine that they may be discriminated against significantly more than, for example, the United Kingdom? A man like me?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203442	Yes, of course, there may be people who are discriminated against, whether they are homosexual or male, or whether they are women or too young, or whether they are old or fat or thin or whatever. Yes, of course, and that is also why I say that we do not have the imagination to imagine how many different reasons there are to tease each other. That is why I do not think we should go in and select groups and say that it is a pity for them here, but it is not if it happens to some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203511	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203516	Thank you very much. We're not digging ditches, and hate is hate. That is one of the points made by the rapporteur, and I totally agree with him, but then it leads to a conclusion that discrimination is something that is going on in the heads of people with disabilities who are experiencing this discrimination, I simply do not understand how it can happen. The rapporteur calls for organisations, associations to point out that there is something wrong here, but was it not more relevant to look at whether there are some people who have experienced discrimination themselves? For there I can at least say that the other day I had a thousand witnesses in my hand from people who have lgbti background and who could simply tell of the hatred they encounter in their everyday lives. That's the kind of thing that makes an impression on me. Does that not impress the rapporteur at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203618	I remember getting questions as a politician and as I know the rapporteur also got, about whether you as a woman feel sexually offended by methods in here at Christiansborg and where I answered no. I could mention a number of things that I had experienced, where I am sure that the rapporteur or some of the other red parties would feel deeply offended. It's a personal matter. I am very interested in factual things, and if there are some associations that come and say that this is simply a task they cannot solve and that they need our help, then I am responsive. But all this, about what people feel and something like that, it can be very difficult to have to make legislation on the basis of.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203700	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203702	Another part of this bill is that people with disabilities now also receive the same protection as people who are subjected to hateful statements based on their ethnicity, their beliefs or their sexual orientation. So I just want the rapporteur to confirm that when you reject this bill, you also refuse to provide people with disabilities with this extra protection, and that when it comes to people with disabilities who are discriminated against, it is also just something that goes on in their heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203737	What we do by rejecting it is to say: hate is not right, no matter who you are. And then we should not start at all pointing out to different social groups and saying that they should have special means of redress. No, everyone has to, because hate isn't okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203752	Thank you to Mrs Hjermind Dencker, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012203802	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. It's nice that there's no glass anymore. It feels so nice. Today is a good day, I think. I really, for a very long time, have had a desire to change the legislation so that the clauses on hate crimes and access to the Equal Opportunities Board also apply to gender minorities and people with disabilities. So it should not be a secret that I am very pleased that we can start the parliamentary year with a proposal in the Committee on Gender Equality on this very point. It is absolutely crucial that hate crimes are treated as hate crimes, and so it is, whether the cause of the crime is the victim's sexuality or gender, as you have the opportunity to report it today, or whether it is gender identity or disability, that is what we want to put into legislation. This is crucial for the victim and it is essential for the prevention of hate crimes. So, first of all, we in the SF are of course in favour of this bill. We're gonna get rid of these hate crimes, and this is a good step on the way. I think most of us in here received a small book in our dues before the summer from the movement Lev and let live they also stood and handed it out at the opening of the Danish Parliament on Tuesday which illustrates how massive a problem we face in the area of lgbti when it comes to hate crimes and discrimination. They gave us a thousand accounts of people who have been subjected to violence, derogatory comments and discrimination on the basis of their sexuality or gender identity. I think this shows very clearly that people with disabilities are particularly at risk when it comes to discrimination and hate crimes. These are really serious things. It is a matter of being spat on in the subway; being attacked in the city, and it is very, very violent violent assaults. That seems to me to have been frightening reading and it has touched me deeply, and that is why I think it is even clearer that we are dealing with it here today. The stories of verbal violence and physical violence and harassment are many, and I believe that the darkness is even greater. There are many reasons for this. But one of them is that right now hate crimes against gender minorities cannot in principle be recorded as hate crimes, and then it is good that we have a system that has dealt with it fairly well. Now we get it right, so that the whole legit can be reported as hate crime if you have been subjected to a violent assault like transgender. It is absolutely crucial that we get rid of hate crimes, and I think one of the first steps is to change these paragraphs. In the short term, it will undoubtedly make a huge difference to the individual victims who are seen and heard about their experiences and are quite sure that they can actually report what they have been exposed to. However, I also believe that in the long term it will reduce the number of hate crimes I really hope so. Then I'm really glad we're getting people with disabilities into these paragraphs. It also makes very good sense, no matter what it is for any hate crimes, hate cries and violence, and who is exposed to it, of course it is not okay. I do not think that all hate crimes disappear because we legislate in this area, and I think that all of us agree with that. That is why I hope that the government will soon present an action plan in this area, so that we can make effective action against hate crimes and discrimination, which we see as so much today in Denmark. Yeah, but I think that's what I'm gonna say. We support this proposal and see it as a good first step on the road to combating hate crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012204150	Then I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012204203	Thank you, President. This bill actually contains two parts, each of which is a huge victory and enormously important for equality and which is a huge victory for minorities in relation to the discrimination suffered by minorities. If we take the first part, which deals with the rights of people with disabilities, then it is documented that people with disabilities are discriminated against. As is also stated in the introduction to the bill, it is almost one in three Danish lgbti-person who has experienced discrimination on the basis of their precisely igbti-identity. As I also mentioned in my question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, the movement Lev and let live has gathered no less than a thousand testimonies which show just how people as Igbti suffer hatred, discrimination and violence. This is something that must make an impression on us in the Radical Left at least. That is why we have also tripped and waited impatiently for this particular bill, which strengthens and clarifies the protection of people with disabilities against discrimination, hate crimes, hate statements not only in the labour market but also outside the labour market. At the same time, it gives this right of appeal to the Equal Treatment Board, which we also very much welcome. The second part of the bill concerns that persons with disabilities receive the same protection as persons who are subjected to hateful statements on the basis of their ethnicity, their nationality, their beliefs or their sexual orientation. It comes in a very good extension of L 154, which we dealt with earlier this year, which was precisely this punishing circumstance, if a criminal act has a background in a victim's disability. So all in all, it's two really good changes; two minorities that are really being taken into account with this bill. And in the Radical Left, of course, we support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012204435	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur; it is quite incredibly pleasant that it can happen without it. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012204449	Thank you. Like the two previous rapporteurs, I would like to thank you for this bill. This is an important step forward to ensure that all lgbt+ people are protected in the legislation that already exists today. We are explicitly ensured that sexual orientation is also protected and that gender identity and gender expression are also explicitly protected against discrimination, and we are also included in the criminal code, as well as people with disabilities, for example. violence due to disability, hateful utterances directed at people with disabilities or other things, also receive the same protection as other minority groups. I think the best way to tell you why this is important is to tell you how I discovered it myself. It was a case of a transperson who had been attacked on the street, hit in the head with a bottle, I mean, while there has been a shouting about the person's gender expression, I think is the nice way of saying it. Let us just say that some really, really ugly things were said about being a transpersonal person while this violent attack was going on, and when the case was going to be dealt with in court, there was doubt that the provision on aggravating circumstances in the criminal code could be used if it were applied, for example. was based on someone's sexuality, that assault had occurred. In other words, if it had been two men who had held hands and that attack had taken place and ugly things had been shouted about their sexuality while it happened, it would be an aggravating circumstance, but it was doubtful in this case whether the aggravating circumstance could be applied. So when there are rapporteurs up here and talking about the fact that it's all about us just having to talk about things properly with each other, and that we can't legislate, on the basis of how some people feel, I hope that all the people for whom this legislation is really present and is absolutely crucial to their lives and their mental well-being, their ability to live as they are, in the world and society that we are in, have chosen to watch football instead of sitting here, because it must be so terrible to hear that this is being demeaned to something that is just about someone's feelings and that it's about you talking to each other if you're teasing each other. This is legislation that is about not telling people that they cannot get a job of a certain nature because they are gay and not because they do not have the skills to do so. It is about us hitting hard on violence, especially when it has such a vile motive as that you don't like people's sexual orientation or how they dress. If anyone thinks that it is okay to commit violence against someone because they happen to be wearing a dress, then that is what we, as a society with this legislation, are opposed to. It is not about whether someone is a little too sensitive, and I think that there are some rapporteurs here today who should have read this legislation a little more closely, or at least I am quite sure that they can get a copy of the testimony of the SF and Radical Left rapporteur, who were spoken about up here, because the thousand witnesses there have at least some of the rapporteurs who have come before me, not read before they put themselves on this platform, and they should. At least the Enhedslisten can fully support this bill, and we look forward to taking more steps to protect the right to live as you are.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012204923	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012204927	Thank you, President-in-Office, for the floor. This bill tackles an extremely relevant issue, which in time has only become much more topical. As the government reports in their proposals, between 1,600 and 2,700 people are subjected to violence because they are homosexual or tranquilized, and almost a third of Danish lgbti people have experienced harassment over the past year because of their lgbti identity. For us it is a matter of course that Denmark should be a spacious society where there is room to be who you want to be. Our society must be characterised by proper and good education, and we must dare to have high expectations of our fellow human beings that these virtues are respected. That is why I am also of the clear conviction that we must crack down on crimes that quite simply stem from the fact that certain people in our society cannot find a way of showing decency and proper conduct and, worst of all, restricting the room for manoeuvre that I believe we should have in our society. As I see it, this bill consists of two parts. There's one about hate crimes, and there's one about utterances. In fact, in this debate today I fear a rather messy discussion. I can say straight away that we firmly believe that hate crimes must be put to good use. It simply cannot be that people in our society are so uneducated that one does not show the respect for one's fellow human beings that we should expect, because a fellow human being is into something specific or likes something specific. But right up to the second part about utterances, I have a few more questions to ask, and I actually have more serious doubts about this. That is why I also hope for a thorough examination of the committee, in which I would like to ask in particular about this part of the legislative proposal. There is no doubt that whatever one does not use one's freedom of expression just because one can, and for example hurt others, but, on the other hand, we must also be aware that there is no lower limit to what one wants to regulate as a limit to freedom of expression. In concrete terms, we have a number of questions on this matter with the Equal Treatment Board, because what does the provision of the draft law mean in practice? This means, for example, that we may end up in a rather strange situation where a person with a CPR number ending on an odd number and thus in a biological sense being a man can be allowed to change in a dressing room for women if the person identifies himself as this. What will happen in practice when cases arise that such a person has been thrown out of the locker room? Yes, one can imagine that just that part of the bill could end up in a number of strange situations. Think of so-called men's and women's clips at the hairdresser, where men's clippings are often cheaper. That is why we have a number of questions about the practical consequences of that part of the bill. If the Minister comes to the conclusion that that part of the bill will have too strange consequences and therefore draws that part of the bill, that is also an answer. Whatever the case, however, we look forward to a thorough examination in the committee of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205306	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And the New Citizens' rapporteur has jumped on the platform, so welcome to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205311	Thank you. Of course there is discrimination and discrimination is a real thing. There are people who are discriminated against because we are not living in a perfect world. And there are people who are discriminated against on their sex, their religious beliefs, their political standing and everything else. So it is just to make it clear that there is, of course, discrimination in society. Something is also being condemned when there is discrimination, and it should be remembered that legislation is already in place to catch it when something like this is going on. What we want with this is an expliciting of something already existing legislation, and that is really what we are debating, namely whether it is the right thing to do. As the Conservative rapporteur rightly says, there are two different areas in which this is going on, and we may agree with it about crimes, but I also have a deep concern that we are going in and tampering with our freedom of expression around the other. So there are some questions raised here, and they are particularly concerned with this gender expression, because what does it cover, what is it that can no longer be said? Sex expression can be both a certain hairstyle, it can be something specific, it can be anything else, i.e. the way you express your sex. And I think it requires clarity on this in committee, because I think it is simply unclear. I think it is still unclear whether we are actually going to illegal some statements that have been legal and that are going to damage our way of having a free conversation and debate. There I will have a large number of questions that I will raise in committee to ensure that we do not go down in our freedom of expression here. There are, after all, some of these elements which are already covered in the current legislation and which should be covered in the current legislation, so what is being made this explicit on where the current legislation is not applicable? I find that interesting to go a little deeper into and see where that need really is. I want these to be my words about this. I always think it is exciting, and it is also necessary that we keep taking the debate on the legislation that we have, in other words whether it can hit, whether it contains, whether it is holding hands and whether it is punishing hard enough and such things, because I think that this is a completely fair debate, but I also think it is important to take the debate on whether, with the best intentions and in order to protect some legislation, we are actually destroying something else absolutely fundamental in our society, which is a right that we also have. So just as it is important that you have the right to live as you want, whether it is as homosexual, as transgender, what you want as any minority, because there are many different minorities, it is also important that we retain the important element of Danish society which is about our freedom of expression. Whether that balance is being shifted in this is one of the questions that I hope we can get an answer to in a committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205702	Thank you. I think I would just like to start by thanking the rapporteur for what the rapporteur says about discrimination and for taking this seriously. And then I look forward to reading the question. I just wanted to talk right now. For one of the things you cannot do today is that you cannot go to the Equal Treatment Board if you have had your same-sex girlfriend in your hand on your way to a restaurant and have been rejected. Then you cannot go to the Equal Treatment Board and try your case because you think that you have been discriminated against on the basis of your sexuality. You'll be able to do that in the future because of this bill. Is that not one of the things that can make sense in relation to what the rapporteur says about discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205741	So, as I read it, gender identity is already now, because it is below the concept of gender, including it. So that is one of the things that I am not quite sure about, i.e. if you cannot already at this stage. People with disabilities were also mentioned, but with regard to people with disabilities, a legal amendment was made on 1 July 2018 which actually allows disabled people to have this opportunity. So I am not sure that is really the case. I understand the problem that is being raised, but I am not sure that this is purely legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205818	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205820	Okay, but what we have at least been told is that when homosexuals turn to the Equal Treatment Board on cases about not being able to enter a restaurant with their boyfriend or not being able to enter a nightclub because you are gay or you have a different gender identity, they say you can't take the case up at the Equal Treatment Board today. So that's why I'm thinking, it's good that we get it changed here. If it turns out that you can, of course it is unnecessary, but it is at least my impression that that is what is meant by parts of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205849	Okay, then I understand the question, because then it is about whether you think that the right place to deal with it is in the Equal Treatment Board or whether it should be dealt with in the judicial system. Because there is already a law that illegals the act of discrimination based on sex. Then I can hear that the rapporteur believes that matters should be dealt with in the Equal Treatment Board, but if there is already a law to do so in the legal system, perhaps I am more in favour of going that way and going in the judicial system. I mean, there's a difference. I believe that the current legislation is already covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205917	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012205926	Thank you for the floor. With this bill, the government wants to restrict freedom of speech. We in the Liberal Alliance oppose this in principle, while recognising a principle of proportionality. Of course, we do not believe that the principle of freedom of expression justifies, for example. libel or slander, or, you can take another example, that it justifies revealing state secrets or business secrets. So the critical question is: to what extent are the conditions that justify interference in freedom of expression? In view of the fact that the Ministry of Employment's consultation note on page 4 states that it is already based on the fact that gender identity and gender expressions are covered by discrimination legislation, and a little further forward that the draft law aims to clarify the existing protection of transsexuals and intersex people, it is a little difficult to see why there is any need for new legislation in this area. The only reason I can actually see why the government is still proposing Bill L 18 is that it is not as innocent as the Ministry of Employment claims. After all, there is an innocent desire to prevent discrimination, and that is a wish that we all support. But behind this desire to prevent discrimination there are often some very far-reaching desires to meet some identity policy agendas that are built into what some call thelgbt ideology. What's special about lgbt ideology is that it always comes in two versions. There is always a room version, and we have already heard it in this Chamber several times, and in the living room version of the ideology it is said that every person has the right to be who he is and to love the person he loves. This version of the living room is the one you always present to the outside world if you're met with criticism. However, in the controversial version of lgbt ideology it is said that gender is a social construction and biology is irrelevant in terms of gender identity. We should not under any circumstances take too good a stand because it opens up a number of absurd cases that have been seen in other countries. In Britain there has been a case of a convicted male rapist who declared himself a woman and was imprisoned in a women's prison where he committed several rapes. The Olympics held in Tokyo this summer saw an example of a person who had gone through puberty as a man, but declared himself a woman and put up in women's sport with the physical benefits it offers. The last thing that also follows in the wake of these cases is a violent hetz against people who, on a factual basis, disagree with the literature. The most famous example is the author J.K. Rowling, whom most of you probably know. If you make a law of hate speech like L 18, it is a law that in many ways resembles a very notorious and controversial Canadian law called C 16. Then it becomes the case that even a case-by-case criticism of lgbt ideology can be classified as a hate crime. Bill L 18 also shares the view of Canadian Law C 16 that it lays down a principle that an infringement is not conditional on an intention to violate, but on an experience of, for example, to have one's subjective perception of one's own sex contradicted. In view of the controversy created by Canadian law C 16, we see no reason in the Liberal Alliance to copy the most unfortunate elements of L 18 and therefore we cannot support the bill. But what I really want to finish with is to encourage the government and the Folketing to some sort of moratorium. Identity policy agendas are repeatedly sneaked into legislation, and Danish politicians are poorly prepared to resist extremism. Therefore, they jump over and over again on the living room version of the lgbt ideology without paying attention to the hidden agenda that lies in the extreme version. That is why I think in reality, and I will conclude by saying that the government and the Folketing should impose a break on themselves with identity policy legislation, so that we do not repeat the errors in the legislation that, among other things, are. was committed in Britain and Canada. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210437	It is just because I have to understand it correctly: the reason why the Liberal Alliance, the so-called and declared liberal party, will not provide the same protection to transsexuals and people with disabilities that have been granted today to people with brown skin or who are homosexuals is therefore that there is, was it a Canadian law that the rapporteur does not like?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210507	According to the Ministry of Employment's own memo, this bill does not go beyond what is already there. You can choose to take that for good goods. But you could also say that there are some parts of this bill that are similar to a very, very controversial Canadian law called C 16, and I think we can learn something from countries that are similar to us. What I am trying to say is that it will always be the case with these identity policy agendas that there is some sensible core that we are all in favour of. We are also in favour of protecting against discrimination. But then there is an extremist element, for example. may be to prohibit objective criticism of the identology or use the law for it. That's why we're against this bill, because what we really want is a moratorium, because the Folketing and the government are poorly prepared to deal with identity policy. You see that over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210611	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210614	Because the rapporteur is afraid of identity policy in some very extreme version, the rapporteur will not give the same protection to transsexuals as has been given to homosexuals today. That's what you're saying. I would perhaps just like to remind the rapporteur that this is the legislative assembly in Denmark. If the rapporteur is concerned about whether this legislation is anything other than what it says in the law, then the rapporteur can ask the minister clear questions, for example. Says: Does this mean that men convicted of rape can declare themselves women and be imprisoned in a women's prison and rape on? That's a question you might ask. Then the Minister will probably say that no, that's not what this law says. And then it's part of the process. It is only if there are other such horror scenarios that do not appear in this legislation and that the rapporteur is afraid of saying, if you now shine a special pen or something on paper, because then the rapporteur can help to clarify it and create a proper legal basis by doing his parliamentary work. I think that would just be more productive in this context, because it would mean that somebody was protected and then we could get rid of all those ghosts.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210730	Well, I thank you very much for this very, very solid game of mansplaining, in relation to how the Folketing works. And then I have to say that Mrs Pernille Skipper obviously does not know very much about the shadow pages of identity policy. These are very real problems we are talking about, which also have consequences for Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210753	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012210804	In the alternative, we do not see such a hugely dangerous, ghost-filled shadow side of the lgbti policy either. Every party has something that they gather around, something that they remember and something that they have written down and that they stand together about. In the alternative, we have a manifesto that expresses our hopes, and it starts here: THE ALTERNATIVE IS A POLITICAL IDÉ about personal freedom, social dignity and living, sustainable communities. ▪ Hatred crimes and hateful utterances compromise both personal freedom, social dignity and living, sustainable communities. And so long, for example. One in three people has felt discriminated against, just as in all the examples we have had in this debate, from people who have felt discriminated against, for example. race, ethnicity, disability, we believe in the alternative that this law makes a lot of sense. Our identity is what defines us as human beings, and if we want living, sustainable communities, hateful expressions against people's identity must be addressed and combated in the same way as hateful expressions against people with different disabilities and disabilities must be combated. Words mean something, and therefore the man behind hateful utterances must also be held accountable. This is not an attack on freedom of expression in our opinion. We see freedom of expression in particular as a protection of the individual from state censorship, but freedom of expression must never become a shield against having to answer for its utterances. In the alternative, we're happy to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211005	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211010	That's the point from the alternative that there isn't a shadow side to this environment and that they're so spacious. I'd like to invite sir. Torsten Gejl helps to visit and talk to some of the bourgeois homosexuals or transsexuals who are also out there and who have had to start their own association because they have felt outspoken and not included in the union because they, for example, have felt ashamed. believes that there are only two genders. So I'm going to arrest the assumption that there's no shadow side to this, which means this inclusion doesn't take place. The inclusion takes place only if you fully buy in on the same premises and ideas as some in the movement do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211101	Of course, I will always accept such an invitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211106	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen further a brief comment? No. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more rapporteurs in the rapporteur's line, and so I can give the floor to the acting Minister for Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211131	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent contributions. I have had a fine speech which I would like to read in a few moments, but before I get this far, after hearing the debate here, I would like to make a few general observations. There is above a well-known doomsday building here in Copenhagen: With law one must land building. ▪ I have often thought about what it really means; because it means, on the one hand, that we regulate our interaction with the law, because we are a lot of people living on the same territory and need to regulate our communication. But I also believe that this means that, with the legislation, we are trying to signal to each other and thus to ourselves who we are as human beings, who we are as a society and what values are carrying our society forward and, of course, they are changing, which is why our paragraphs change too. One of the places where we change the paragraphs is for example: The penal code has a law that should perhaps in fact be called the Protection Act, because the purpose of the law is not to punish, but to protect someone we believe should be protected. With the specific legislative proposal we are now discussing, for example, it is acting. on people with disabilities whom we want to protect better. I take the view that it is our society that is moving forward, that some people need a special form of protection, write it into our legislation, hopefully with a majority of Parliament's parties, and thus not only want to punish someone and protect someone, but also to tell ourselves who we are and what our view of disability in this particular case is. Therefore, this is also about much more than just the things set out in the law. I think it's also about us as a parliament trying to say to ourselves, to the people and to our surroundings what kind of values bear this society. And that is why I am actually pleased with the debate that has taken place today, because I think it is important that we, as political parties and as a parliament, address these issues, naturally in a factual and enlightened way, in which we recognise each other's positions, but also in a way that does not detract from the challenges that exist in our society. For no one should be discriminated against... we agree that no one should experience a hate crime or hate utterances simply because they are who they are or who they love. Of course, that is a matter of course. But then we must also deal with the fact that almost a third of Danish homo- and bisexuals and trans always or often avoid holding hands with their partner in public space. It is not an abstract thing, it is something very concrete for some fellow citizens, and it is a concrete experience they have. This is something they avoid because of their sexual orientation or their gender identity. One in four people has felt discriminated against or harassed at their workplace because of their gender identity, and between 1,500 and 2,500 people are subjected to violence every year, which, in the victim's view, is motivated by transphobia or homophobia. I do not think that we can simply minimize and say: well yes, but there are so many people who are exposed to so many different things. We have to deal with the fact that there is something special here that we, as a Parliament and in our legislation, have to deal with. At any rate, we in the government think that there is a need to take action against this. Today's legislative proposal strengthens legislation and makes it clear that homo- and bisexual, transsexual and intersex people are protected against discrimination, hate crimes and hate phrases. At the same time, we also protect people with disabilities from hateful expressions. The bill prohibits discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation outside the labour market. For example, a housing company must: couldn't refuse to rent out to two women because they're lesbians. In fact, earlier today I asked some officials in the Ministry of Gender Equality whether this was an example that had been taken out of thin air, and it is not. This is something that is happening in Danish society. At the same time, we are giving the opportunity to complain to the Equal Treatment Board about discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. This means that the burden of proof is shared, and that means that there is an opportunity to obtain compensation if you are successful in your complaint. Already today, transsexuals and intersex people are covered by the ban on discrimination, hate crimes and hateful utterances, but it is not clear in the legislation that it follows from practice and interpretations, and it is true, as has been mentioned here from the platform, that that part of the bill is what lawyers seem to call a codification of practice. It is being made quite clear in the legislation now that transsexuals and intersex people are protected against discrimination, both inside and outside the labour market, and we make it clear that they can complain to the Equal Treatment Board if they experience discrimination. The law also makes it clear in the criminal code provisions on hate crimes and hate statements that transsexuals and intersex people are included. Again: It is something that is made clear. In addition, the government proposes that statements or similar statements in which a group of persons is threatened, insulted or demeaned because of their disability will in future be covered by what is called section 266b of the Criminal Code on hateful statements. In Denmark, everyone must have real equal opportunities to be who they are and love what they do and no one should be subjected to hatred, persecution or discrimination. We, as a society, must support this, and I believe we do so with this bill. I really agree with what has been said by the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur that the current trends in identity policy that characterize all Western societies at the moment also have a shadow side, but I think we owe it to ourselves when we have the discussions in the legislative process that we are dealing with the concrete elements of this draft law. And I admit that I have read this bill more than once to simply understand what it was about, but I really do not think that there are elements in this legislation that are part of it, which we have seen, I completely admit in some other western countries, where it has become a restriction of the freedoms we have in our society. I regard this draft law as an attempt to realise the freedoms of some of the citizens who are experiencing things that I myself do not experience, but which I think we must recognise that the investigations that are in this area are quite clearly described in our society and which I believe should form the basis for us to protect those people better, and that is what this bill should do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211830	Thank you, Minister. There is one brief comment to be made to the Minister, and it is from Mr Van der Klaauw. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211836	Thank you for a good speech, which, as usual, is marked by the Minister's thoughtfulness. I want to know if the Minister can guarantee that this law cannot be used by a transperson to complain about and feel harassed, for example. the claim that only women can have children. I mean, you can complain about harassment if I, for example. says in a discussion: Only women can have children? So is that reason enough to use this law to complain?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012211921	I think the most forthcoming thing would be if the rapporteur asked the question in writing that I reply and that we get it reprinted in the report as a contribution to the legislation. But now I also heard some of the other examples that the rapporteur mentioned a little earlier, for example. As a rapist, you can claim to be in a women's prison because you feel like a woman. No, you can't. There has been another example of a man who thought he was a woman and therefore had to bathe inside the women's dress, but where the swimming pool said: We would ask you to dress somewhere else in a dressing room for yourself. He then complained to the Equal Treatment Board and said it couldn't be right, and there he got • or she, depending on how you just look at it • not successful. So it is also to say that I actually believe that the decisions taken by the Equal Opportunities Board today are not entirely on the moon. I think they have reasonable common sense in their approach to how we deal with this issue, and the fact that more people now have access to the Equal Opportunities Board, I think there is only more common sense coming out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212026	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212030	I will, of course, put the questions in writing, but it is also exciting to hear what the Minister is thinking. That is why I would like to try another example. As a transpersonal person, if you are born as a man and are transiting as a woman, will you be able to use this right to complain that you are being denied access to boxing for women?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212055	That is certainly not the political intention of the law, and again, if there is to be a proper answer, I would urge that the question be put in writing. However, our intention is not to end up in a situation where you can just declare yourself a different sex and then gain access to all kinds of other rights. But I do not think that is what the law says either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212121	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212129	Thank you. I'm just gonna give you a thoughtful example. At the sports club, let's say at the gym club, you have to hire a coach. At the interview, a guy comes in, and he sits at the interview and tells me he's gay and so on. And those who then have to hire him think that he will simply not be hired, not because he is gay, but because he is sitting there with something as private as his own sexuality in a job interview. All he has to do here is focus on being a coach. His sexuality can be forgotten at home. He can have it there. So we just don't want people taking something as private as their sexuality into public space. So if you reject it on the grounds that I don't care if you're gay or swinging, you don't have to sit and tell a job interview, will that be something where, under this law, you can be judged for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212228	In other words, discrimination must be justified, in this case in homosexuality and not in whether you have done well or badly for a job interview. By the way, if you knock someone down on the street and then it turns out that he was gay, you won't get a punishment, an aggravating circumstance because he was gay. It's because you beat him because he was gay. And if there is someone who does not get a job or does not get an opportunity or is otherwise discriminated against because you are gay, then that can provide a basis for raising a case. But it has to be for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212306	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212309	It's all about the fact that it's suddenly become a social thing, that you're also embarrassing a whole lot of people. For most of us, our sexuality is the most private thing we have, that's what we share with the fewest people, and when you constantly have the urge to flash your sexuality in front of others, you can embarrass those people. And that is what I mean: how are these people protected in this legislation when they say 'no' to get their borders crossed? How are they protected by this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212356	After all, neither this legislation nor any other legislation protects people from being embarrassed. So, we have a blasphemy clause, I would say, but telling about your sexuality to other people is not included in the fact that you have behaved blasphemy. I dare say that, even though it is ultimately up to the courts to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212420	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212424	Thank you. This part of the burden of proof is what I'm a little worried about. So does the Minister not recognise that we cannot foresee all the dilemmas that may arise from this? I spoke a little about this in my rapporteur's speech, and what worries me in this way is that some situations may arise. Now I mentioned the swimming pool myself, and the Minister also said that it was overruled, but there may be other dilemmas and situations. And that's what worries me about this, and I'm going to ask some questions about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212514	It is true that the burden of proof has been shared in the Equal Treatment Board, and it is originally an attempt by the Danish Parliament to support equal treatment, that it is then said that there is a split burden of proof and an opportunity to obtain compensation, and so there are more people who will now be covered by it than in the past. And in this way, there is a difference between a case running on the Equal Treatment Board or the fact that it runs down in the city court where there is no split burden of proof. So the rapporteur is right, and it is an attempt to support it, to pursue certain political objectives better, and we think that this can be done in this way by involving more people in accessing the Equal Opportunities Board. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is actually one of the things that is quite relevant here, namely that it is not normal for us in the ordinary legal system to share the burden of proof. We have that in the Equal Opportunities Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212605	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211012212622	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 13 October 2021, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
