ParlaMint-DK_20210426100001	The meeting is open. The Epidemic Committee has submitted: Report on removing the requirement for 30 minutes' prior table order for indoor serving. 17) and report on the immediate reopening of schools and youth education. 18). The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The Interior and Housing Committee has submitted: Report on the overhead costs of municipalities and regions. 16). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100048	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100056	Thank you for that, President. The Left has put forward a proposal which gives the government the task of introducing the full principle of road transport, that is, throughout Denmark and throughout the year. In the government, we agree that we need to have more coherence and more balance; Denmark must be more united than it is today. There has been an ongoing centralisation for several years, with focus on the larger cities, and this has been at the expense of rural areas and smaller communities in Denmark. The result is that the opportunities in our country are unevenly distributed depending on whether you live in the big cities or live in the province. It is a development which has not been governed by natural laws, but which we believe has been governed by wrong political decisions. In 2018, therefore, the Social Democratic Party presented an initiative called "Nurity Back" in which we set the goal of breaking up with the biased development that has followed the municipal reform in 2007. We are working on this, and I would just like to mention that we have presented an infrastructure plan, we have adopted a compensatory reform, we are setting up new tax centres around the country and we will come up with more initiatives, among other things. proposals for a better and more decentralized placement of education in Denmark. In general, we will look at the negative consequences of the municipal reform. That is why we also agree that it is important to create good opportunities to live and live on the islands, regardless of the challenges that geography naturally presents when all transport is to take place across water. At the Kerne of the motion for a resolution is the principle of road transport, in which the cost of a ferry journey is reduced to the same distance on the road. The aim is to support the full-year residence and tourism on the islands. The principle of land use is the basis for the subsidy currently granted by the State to island municipalities and municipalities to lower the price of passenger tickets. As you know, substantial subsidies are also being granted to reduce the price of goods. Each year, the municipalities receive almost 131 million for the two schemes for freight and passengers. kr. in earmarked grants. I think there is reason to note that the subsidies that we have introduced over recent years have been adopted by a broad majority. We have supported across parties in the Folketing to make ferry tickets cheaper, and this has happened in several rounds as funding could be obtained. There has also been a common awareness of the need to be careful in relation to the high season. Therefore, the scheme was originally designed to use the subsidy to reduce ferry charges outside the high season, so as not to create bottlenecks and capacity problems. However, as the proposers mention, the Danish Parliament's parties agreed in 2018 to change the model, so municipalities with small islands can now use the subsidy to reduce passenger tariffs throughout the year, i.e. also during the peak season. This was in recognition of the fact that conditions vary greatly between the small islands, so by giving freedom, it was possible to experiment locally with adjustments to prices also during the high season. However, the government cannot support this motion for a resolution, and this is because the Left has not actually indicated any concrete funding for the expenditure contained in the proposal. As the proposers themselves point out, the government has previously estimated that it will cost approx. 45 million kr. Every year, the Left wants to finance the proposal with reference to the party's financial law priorities under the heading "Growth in a green transition with the people in the centre', but this is the presentation by the Left from November 2020 to last year's Finance Act, a Finance Act which has been adopted. In the government, we are not in favour of making political proposals without responding to where the money should come from in concrete terms. A future discussion on the possible extension of the principle of road transport therefore presupposes that we also have a concrete proposal for future financing, a discussion which is best suited to financial law discussions, in which we have a comprehensive discussion of the priorities of the overall budget. The Government has not yet taken a position on this specific proposal. At the same time, the 2018 agreement adjusting the current tariffs was based on an interim evaluation. Here the conclusion was that the two subsidy models for freight and passengers generally worked well and as intended. At the same time, it was agreed that a new evaluation of the current ferry subsidies will be carried out in 2022. I would like to add that the upcoming evaluation will also look at the experience of last year's summer package. Due to the corona situation, free domestic ferries were introduced in July for pedestrians and cyclists in order to strengthen island tourism and 50 million were granted. kr. extra for tariff reductions on non-governmental ferry services in August and September. The summer package was overall a success, but there were examples that capacity could not keep up, so that some citizens on the islands could suddenly not come home or work because of sold-out ferries. It is therefore obvious that the evaluation in 2022 will focus on how to avoid capacity problems, so that ferry subsidies can also be successful in the future. I would like to conclude by stating that the current arrangements for reducing ferry tariffs have been a success, and they must remain so. So I would like to call on us, for example. do not create inappropriate queue problems during the high season in our common desire to create good conditions for the islands. The government would very much like to discuss the possibilities of improving the current ferry subsidies to the islands with all parties of the Folketing, but if it costs money, there must of course be real funding of the cost. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100612	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100618	Thank you and thank you for your speech, Minister. 45 million kr. Divorced us. Because I can listen to the government not intend to back it up. But the Minister starts by showing that there are plenty of challenges out there in our rural areas and they have come over a long period of time. Now we are facing another challenge, which we can be very concerned about how our islands get through, and then we cannot find 45 million. kr. Is it because the government passed the wrong Finance Act? You could have just followed the Left Finance Bill, and then there would have been money to finance this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100652	No, we adopted a good financial law, and there have been plenty of good priorities in it, which also benefit rural areas and islands around the country. So I don't think so. But it is clear that you cannot come and say that you want to spend 45 million. kr. on something, without pointing out where to do it. What, then, is it in the Finance Act that we adopted that we want to roll back? Is this the strengthening of primary school? Are these minimum standards? Is it a better psychiatry? What are the priorities that we adopted, which are intended to eliminate in practice 45 million? kr. From? It's the least you have to tell me if you want to spend that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100725	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100726	Yeah, I think we found the money. The government has just chosen to spend the money on something else, among other things. by giving extra money to people who go home and do not contribute. We had a hearing in the Committee on Rural Development and the association of the small islands said that the summer package was of course fine, but that the best thing to ensure growth, development and employment on the small islands was that we also knew what we had tomorrow. Of course, we were pleased with the summer package, but we would have liked to have lowered prices in the future, we would have liked to have introduced the full principle of road transport, and it would have been cheaper than a summer package. Shouldn't the government give time for thought and then have this full road principle put in place instead of climbing the money when you want to use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100820	I would like to say, at any rate, that I fully agree that good planning is essential if we are to be able to organise the summer we would like to have in the small islands, and there were some problems last year, but of course there was also a great deal that worked well. I agree with that. Then I would say that, when I was young on the left and in the Social Democratic Party, when we needed money for a proposal, we always said that the defence had to be cut, and it has gradually become a little bit with the Left, so that every time there is a lack of money, it is said that it is about the 2 000 kroner, or how much it is that you get if you are unemployed. Well, that money can't be stretched anywhere. If you made up how many places the Left has used them to finance it, then I think it will be quite a large amount of money when it comes down to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100858	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100903	Following on from what my good colleague Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen has asked the Minister, I would just like to say that we can always disagree as to where the money should be taken. It's not interesting. What is interesting is: do we have the will to do so? Do we really want to create the full transport equality of the islands? And that was unclear to me in the Minister's speech. Would the Minister like to help us ensure full transport equality? Because then we in the Danish People's Party will help the Minister; then we will find out what we can do to get the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426100937	I think we should do everything we can to ensure that there is full transport equality. I think it is a principle that we should work on, but I also think it should be the case that we take it in the order in which it is financed, and the questioner knows that too. After all, four financial laws were in place for a total of four years, which did not introduce full transport equality. So this is after all something that is happening at a certain rate, and it was not even introduced at the time when the financial laws were being drafted. So there is a challenge to find that funding, no matter which side sits at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101010	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101011	Yes, we were in the context of four financial laws, and it is true that we did not achieve full transport equality. However, in the four financial laws we gradually gained more and more traffic equality, and that is the development that we would like to see continued, and now we have a relatively small amount, at least, when we talk about the Treasury, which is equally lacking. So that is why I am interested to hear: when will the Minister and the government give priority to continuing the good procedure that we had under the previous government, so that we gradually gave more and more every year so that we can soon see that we are in line with full transport equality? When are we gonna continue it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101055-2	I wish I could give a concrete answer, but it is the case with every budget law that we have some things that we would really like to achieve in terms of full transport equality, and we could say minimum standards, and we could say many other things that we are working towards, but where it takes a few jerks, because of course it is money that has to be given priority over a lot of other things. So I cannot answer it quite specifically, but I fully agree with the ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101117	There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, so thank you to the Minister, and also thank you for just getting the platform ready for the rapporteur's line to begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101133	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Left for giving us the opportunity to get the prices on ferry service into the debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think there were a few of us who spoke just now, shortly before the beginning of the sitting, about the fact that it was actually a long time ago that we had discussed this in this Chamber, so I think it is actually very good that it gives rise to that. Because in the Social Democratic Party, and as I see a large number of other parties doing, we want the road principle to be fully implemented, but for us it is important that this should be done at an appropriate pace, taking into account the experience gathered and in a very good dialogue with the islands and with the small islands. After all, the process of implementing the road principle has been going on for some years now and, as the proposers will remember from our study trip to Scotland a few years ago, it is important that we take the necessary time and make the necessary adjustments in dialogue with islanders in order to hit the dial correctly with regard to the road principle. It has certainly been a huge success for me that the rates have been lowered on the ferries to the islands, both in terms of settlement and in terms of the development of business and tourism, and in principle the road principle is everything else equal on all routes except for the six weeks of the summer holiday, and then we need a small piece. The last statement we've got from the Ministry says 45 million. kr., but we must act wisely, which is why it also makes sense to wait for the evaluation agreed in 2022 and then also take advantage of the experience we have with the summer package from last year. That is why we in the Socialist Group cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101325	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101329	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. The rapporteur said in his speech that this should be introduced and that it should be done at an appropriate pace and that it would have been a brilliant success and so on. That is also what we hear when we go out and visit the small islands in particular, so that is exactly what we are calling for all around. The rapporteur also said that this should be done in dialogue with the Association of Danish Small Islands. Earlier this year we had a hearing on the summer package and among other things. The effects of the cheaper ferry tickets and the free ferry tickets, and there we could hear that it had a great effect. Both the municipalities and the association expressed: Get started, Christiansborg, we just go and wait. What kind of dialogue is the rapporteur waiting for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101412	I remember very well the hearing which, by the way, was very fine. Unfortunately, not many people took part in it. But you have had the opportunity to see it afterwards, and there you could just hear that what both the islands and the association said was that if there is to be a summer package this year, it must be announced as soon as possible. That is what was like the point, that it should not come as a lightning bolt from a clear sky, 14 days before the whole thing is to be set in motion. It has to come in good time, so you have the opportunity to plan it. What we are talking about here is how, in the long term and in a final way, we can say that adaptation will have a fully implemented road principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101451	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101452	But what was called for, both from the small islands and from the municipalities, was that the full principle of road transport was introduced, precisely in order to have the opportunity to anticipate things and get people hired and to get ready for the big shake. So I guess it's just about us getting started, also because you could actually document from the evaluation back in 2018, that this had actually made profits all around, both to the islands, but also to the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101521	Yeah, that's absolutely right. But then I would just like to come back to my own speech and also to the Minister's and say that we are in favour of this being done; it just has to be done at an appropriate pace. And in relation to the evaluation that will then come, it is very good to do so in dialogue with the islands and the island association.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101539	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101542	Thank you so much. I have just wondered a little bit about the fact that I have heard several social democratic ministers and now the rapporteur also tells us about the fact that last year we saw it and the developments we saw last year, i.e. 2020, was a very special year, so of course you cannot use it as an example. The Danes could not travel, so of course you were also much more on holiday in Denmark, which was also incredibly nice, and I was also on vacation in Denmark. So why is it that you keep using 2020 as one, what should you say, benchmark year, when we know it was so atypical?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101623	After all, there are two different discussions going on. One is the application of the principle of road transport; to ensure that islanders and those on land can easily and cheaply get back and forth between the islands. And then it's all about 2020 being atypical, compared to a lot of people coming out on the islands at once. And there has been an ongoing discussion about what capacity is and how much you can cope with. After all, 2020 helped to test how much you can actually do, because there were a lot of people at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101654	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101655	Yes, and as my colleague said just now, a fully phased-in principle of road transport will make it more widely distributed and it will be possible to prepare better in these areas. And that's what they say. So what do you keep waiting for from the government? This is an amount of 45 million. kr., it was about? I'm pretty sure. And I would very much like to make a lot of suggestions for where we can find that money. This is a relatively small amount compared to the big picture. Why is it that the government keeps waiting for this when that is what is so widely agreed is what is desired?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101732	Thank you. Well, I think the Minister has explained that quite well. There are two reasons. One is that you have to have an evaluation, and it is also usually the way to work, including here in the Folketing, so that you follow up on the lessons learned, both those on the long track and also where there has been, what to say, tested last year, in relation to free access for cyclists and pedestrians. And the second is that the money actually has to be on the Finance Act as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101802	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen. There are no more brief comments. And thank you for getting the platform ready. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426101831	Thank you. The year was 2012 I remember, because I was relatively newly elected here in the Danish Parliament, I had less than 1 year's seniority, since I was elected in 2011 and I remember that the then Prime Minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt, had just come along so that the first fad out of a later long line of fads, but she had just arrived with the first one, and this was where she thought that there should be a pay ring around Copenhagen, so, of course, right until she saw with the words coming a good solution tomorrow anyway, didn't mean it anyway. I remember that the City of Copenhagen and especially the local authorities were furious about this, and I understand that, because it is true that it was a foolish proposal. But the debate was followed by others in all other parts of the country, and especially there were three places in the country where they followed it with wonder, and it was on Ærø, and it was on Læsø, and it was on Samsø. On the three islands they sat and said: why is this really a huge matter in the media that there might be a pay ring around Copenhagen when there are no politicians interested in us having a pay ring on the islands around our islands? And I remember thinking, "You gotta be kidding me." It should just be a lie that there are no politicians interested in the fact that there is a pay ring around every island in Denmark. I will be the politician who cares about that, and I will be the politician who fights to abolish it. And I did so as the first politician ever. I put a question which led to a proposal for adoption requiring the government to set up a working group to identify ways of ensuring the equal treatment of the islands in traffic, and this was a text of adoption which I am deeply grateful to the bourgeois parties, including the proposer, today. The government had, of course, produced a similar text for adoption, which simply stated that everything was fine as it was now and that nothing had to be changed. Then something interesting happened. A number of parties, i.e. All the bourgeois parties in Denmark, which supported road equality, supported my proposal. Then came mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten and said to me: It is a very good proposal, I support it too. And then the government was suddenly outnumbered, and that was difficult for them. So instead of just acknowledging that they were in the minority, and then voting for my proposal, they did so, that they corrected a word in my proposal and where I had written the Parliament imposing the government, they wrote the Parliament calling on the government, and then they put forward my proposal as if it were their own, so that we could vote on it, and it was then adopted. But that's politics. I wasn't unhappy about it, on the contrary. I was relieved that my proposal had now been adopted and that the islands could now at last look forward to being equal to the mainland. But that in itself was not adequate. I knew that every year I had to fight and fight until we got to the goal of traffic equality, so that's what we've been doing in the Danish People's Party ever since 2012, when it was adopted, we've just been fighting to get it on the Finance Act, and we've come a long way, but we've got two more things to do: 1) traffic equality of the islands all year round, also during the summer holidays of schools, and 2) final equality, because it doesn't have to cost more to sail to a Danish island than it has to cost to drive the same route on the road. So it does not cost anything to go on the road, nor does it cost anything to ride on the road, so it should not cost anything to sail to an island if you are a walker or a cyclist. So we're gonna have to bring that too. These are the two things we need. Once the two things are implemented, we can all look in the mirror and say: Yes, we succeeded! Our common struggle for the equality of the islands succeeded! I look forward to achieving this objective, but until then, the Danish People's Party welcomes every step in the right direction in terms of road equality, which is why we naturally support the proposals of the Left today, and thank you for having made it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102316	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102339	Thank you to the Left for tabling a motion for a resolution aimed at introducing the full principle of road transport. The SF backs that up. However, we do not support the proposal because there is no mention of funding with which we agree. When we support the introduction of a full road principle, it is of course because it must be attractive to live and be on the islands of Denmark. It has been the case for a number of years that those who lived on the islands have been those who were a little forgotten in the political debate. They were not prioritised, either locally or nationally, and there I think we are in a movement where, when there are financial law negotiations, or when we are making aid packages, you might as well see that everything that is important in this country is not what is going on in the big cities. It's also in the province. It's also on the islands. It is also in rural areas. That is why it is good that we are discussing this again. It was also seen that it had a real effect on the islands when we gave cheaper or free ferry tickets last summer. I have a view of the oar ferry, and I sit every night when I eat dinner, and I look out for it to pass by. By this ferry as well as by so many other ferries there were long queues of people to get over to visit our beautiful Danish islands, and it was of course also a special season because it was the corona season, but nevertheless I just think that quite a lot of people have realized both to visit the islands on vacations, but also to live and live on islands with everything that comes with peace and tranquility and community and nature and water. So we think this is an exciting debate and we would very much like to continue working on the idea of introducing the full principle of road transport. As I said at the outset, we cannot support the funding of the Left. Firstly, the Left bases their funding proposals on a draft budget which is becoming a little out of date, but if you read down the proposal, there are among others. a proposal that zero quota refugees should be taken. Now we have decided to take quota refugees. This means that the money has actually already been spent on it, but we do not think it is the world's most vulnerable citizens who have to pay for the full principle of road transport. We must be able to find other ways of doing that, and we would very much like to discuss this with the Left. Then there is also an evaluation of this principle of road transport and whether it should be extended. We really believe that the consultation that has taken place in the Folketing and the experience we already have is enough for us to say that this is something we must work towards. It is just to say that if it had been very important for the Left or for the Danish People's Party or the other parties that made for example. The budget bill in 2018, it had already been introduced there. However, we are looking forward to the continued debate and I am quite convinced that this is something that we are going to introduce in the future. I also believe that this is a more intelligent way of doing it than the way we did it in the summer package last year. It was a very good summer package which made a big difference to the whole country, but what is the advantage of the full road principle and the economy that comes with it is that it is more flexible how to spend the money. Some islands want cars over, others can't stand it. Some would like to make special arrangements for pedestrians and cyclists. Some would like to stretch it out in a smarter way. That is why we also believe that this is the way to go. So we cannot support the proposal, but look forward to further work towards introducing the full road principle in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102737	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102742	I do not buy the argument that it is either an implementation of the full road principle, or it is quota refugees. I understand that the rapporteur is proposing to write some sort of report, because the rapporteur is, after all, taking the proposal down positively. It is only the funding that is a challenge. That is why we have to come over together the rapporteur is so little polemical and has as an argument that it was not on the budget law in 2018, but it was because there was no evaluation. It came in August 2018. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102824	Now I am not completely down in matter, as the rapporteur is, but it is true that it was decided not to introduce the full principle of road transport and that a new evaluation should then be launched in order to find out by 2022 whether to introduce the full principle of road transport. Now the Left decides not to wait for that. That is fair enough, but it was the Left itself who made that decision. In the SF we feel that we also want to introduce the full principle of road transport. We really believe that what we hear from the islands is strong enough. But it is just to say that it is after all the Left itself that has chosen that approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102859	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102900	I was just trying to say that there was an evaluation in 2018, which just showed that it is an incredibly good business for both the islands and for society to have subsidies for ferry tickets and the full road principle. But enough about it. The Member can go home and read things. I should just like to ask: does the honourable Member think that it is good policy that it is cheaper to operate in Slagelse than on Samsø? Is that good policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426102931	I would first like to say that I have read things. It is quite simple: if the Left thought that in 2018 it was the basis for introducing the full road principle, as the rapporteur says here, the Left could have just introduced it in 2018. I do not understand, because we did not have the government at that time. It was the left. So if you were fully enlightened at the time, why didn't it be introduced then? No, we do not believe that there should be any difference between being able to operate in Slagelse, on Samsø and in the capital. We want it to be attractive to operate anywhere in the country. That is also why we say that we would very much like to continue working on this proposal. It just needs to be financed properly and in a spirit of solidarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103009	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103026	Thank you for that, President. In the Radical Left, we would also like to thank you very much for the proposal. This gives us a very good opportunity to discuss this important matter again in the Chamber. I would also very much like to sign up to the government to start talking about the larger structural and strategic move in order to achieve better balance in Denmark. After all, I am still relatively newly elected, and it seems to me that the compensatory reform that we landed early in 2020 helped to create a good basis for the cooperation that I expect we to see between the government and Parliament's parties during this period. I would also very much like to sign up to the government for what seems to be some rather ambitious plans for how to achieve better balance in Denmark. It is really, really important for me to say that the Radical Left is therefore on that agenda and we look forward very much to those discussions. It is also possible that we will come up with some ideas ourselves, but we will have to go along with that. So far, so good. Of course, the principle of road transport is something that we agree with, like all other parties, but we are probably also where we are not ready to just nod yes to the proposals of the Left in this round. There is, of course, something about funding, but as the rapporteurs of the Left and of the New Citizen say quite realistically, the 45 million are. kr. Indeed, a grip in the pocket, at least in a fiscal context, so if you wanted to find the money, you would probably be able to do it too. Wherever we may be, we really, really want to wait for the evaluation that will come in 2022, because it will have a broader perspective and will be able to catch up with more opinions than what might just lie with the rapporteur of the Left, or whoever the rapporteur of the Left is talking to. It is an evaluation that comes all the way around. It also comes out to the islanders and to the municipalities, for whom it is also interesting who is going to finance this ferry operation, I would say. So, for us, it's a matter of just putting cold water in the blood. It's really nice that we can just take this round about it today, but can't we agree to maybe wait until 2022 and take it there? Because I'm sure we can work this out together. At least that's what it sounds like to me. It's not the big thing that separates us like that. Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103258	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that there is a great deal of sympathy for the proposal, but since it is tabled by the Left, it cannot be supported. The structural differences which the rapporteur now considers to be the great animal of the revelation, that is, the difficulty of achieving a better balance between the country and the city, must of course be about municipal reform, as the Minister mentioned. Is it radical policy to change the municipal reform precisely in order to loosen up against this major imbalance mentioned by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103328	I do not think I mentioned the municipal reform, because we are in fact still advocating that we have brought together municipalities, and we have done so wisely. What I was talking about was the reform of compensation, which the Left was involved in, and thank you for that. It was a great gift that we actually managed to achieve a large and broad reform. It's going to create a really, really good bottom for everything we're going to do. It creates an opportunity in the municipalities to actually provide welfare at roughly the same level • so far, as well. The municipalities have got some air. They have just got their heads over water, but now we are going to look at some of the other structural inequalities, for example. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103414	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103415	The Left, of course, shares the ambition that we will have our education spread out more than we have done in the past. But it does not help, that is to say, it is equally awesome, rapporteur, that we will have to distribute training if we cannot afford to move there because we do not have the road principle. After all, the road principle is a prerequisite for ensuring that we have a settlement and that we have work and job opportunities on our islands. Then why don't you bite to fuck now? Why wait until 2022 when there is a fine evaluation from 2018 on a total of 160 pages, I think, made by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior? Why don't you bite to fuck now? What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103453-2	The country road principle is not in the way of setting up training places, even in the small islands. On Ærø there is e.g. maritime training where they do not really have problems recruiting because it is such a good training. There you also get transport subsidies to go out if you are on su. So for us, that's not really a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103518	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103534	Thank you. Enhedslisten is a great advocate of the full principle of road transport. We need to make it easier and, above all, cheaper to get to and from our islands. It will thus create better coherence in Denmark. For the islands, it is vital that ferry transport is made as small a barrier as possible, and that is where the price is an important step. That is why it makes very good sense to introduce the full road principle proposed by the proposers, and I would like to thank the proposers for that. Having said that, however, it is quite unclear, as many have already mentioned, how the proposers intend to finance this proposal. Reference is made to the Left's proposal on financial priorities, but without the proposers making a concrete proposal on how the proposal should be financed. The Enhedslisten can therefore fully support the introduction of the road principle to the Danish islands as soon as possible, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands here without concrete funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103643	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103647	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I am well aware that the rapporteur is a standin. The rapporteur's colleague, the Honourable Member, Henning Hylllested, whom I have great respect for, has always fought for this all the way through. We were on a nice trip here in the autumn to Årø and Mandø, and I remember very well that Mr. Henning Hyllested advocated that if one voted on the Enhedslisten, the road principle should be achieved very, very quickly. Does the rapporteur think that it is right for the Enhedslisten to stand on the two islands and say that the road principle is just around the corner, but that, because the Left is proposing it, it is no longer the policy of the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103736	This has nothing to do with the fact that it is the Left that has tabled the proposal. This is about the fact that the Left has not shown any clear funding. The Enhedslisten has all the way through, all the way back from 2011, as Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker could tell you so well before, Mr. Henning Hyllested fought for the introduction of the road principle, and it is also up to believers when I stand on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103758	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103759	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable that it is more expensive to operate on Samsø than it is in Slagelse?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103810	No, and that is why, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is essential that we lower the barrier that ferry charges are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103820	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426103842	Denmark is a small, but lovely country with bright beech forests and waving grainy fields, with anemons in the forest floor, bird singing from above, with islands and with mainland, a country that, despite its small distances, is characterized by diversity from the Jutland heath to Bornholm's rocks. I have come to Bornholm myself for many years because my children's father's family come from there. I have enjoyed the nature, the sun, the food and the very special atmosphere every time, even the trip on the ferry I have learned to like except the price. I have been to Samsø many years ago, and I have many more lovely Danish islands for good, because Danish islands are something very special. That is why, of course, we must also ensure that Denmark is better connected than it is today. A better and more developed infrastructure must ensure that we bind the country together and make it easier and more attractive to settle in the outermost parts of our lovely country. In this way you can enjoy everything that that part of our lovely country can offer. We ensure this by improving and expanding the road network and at the same time ensuring that Danish families can afford a safe and spacious car and more if they have the need and quite frankly, it has most families with children. However, with the development of infrastructure, there is also traffic equality. We must ensure that it is no more expensive to sail 1 km than to drive 1 km. In this way we bind our lovely Danish islands better together with the bridge-proof and land-resistant parts of our lovely little spot on the ground: Denmark. As Adam Oehlenschläger so beautifully formulates it in our national anthem, there is a lovely country: • The country is still beautiful,/ for blue it the lake belts,/ and the lion stands so green,/ and the lion stands so green/and noble women, beautiful maid/and men and healthy swings/inhabit the Danish islands/inhabit the Danish islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426104105	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you, too, for preparing for the next rapporteur, who is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426104130	Thank you for that, President. First of all, of course, I would like to thank both the Minister and the rapporteurs for their speeches. However, I would have liked a somewhat different content, but the road principle, that is, the principle that the ticket price for sailing a ferry is fixed, so that it corresponds to the cost of driving a corresponding route on the road, has always been agreed on. On 3 June 2016, the Danish Parliament adopted an amendment to the law on municipal equalisation and general grants to municipalities. The law allowed 30 islands to benefit from lower ferry charges for passenger transport. The scheme is targeted at the low tourist season in the spring and autumn, where there is the greatest potential to increase tourism on the islands. A very large step had been taken, but one was not in the finish line. As far as I remember, all parties helped to take responsibility for additional funds and the objective of road equality, not least because an evaluation put figures on it. The evaluation showed, among other things, that on Læsø the principle of road transport could be directly read in ferry traffic, where there had been an increase before and after the high season, i.e. during the so-called shoulder season, what we politically wanted. Læsø has received 2.6 million. kr. in aid, but it has generated 9.2 million. kr. new net turnover on the island has been received 2,6 million. kr. In the case of aid, however, 9.2 million has been generated. kr. in new net turnover. The financial contribution has thus had a significant impact on economic activity and three key parameters for the islands are emerging: tourism, settlement and, above all, the competitiveness of the economy. On Læsø, Samsø and Ærø, the evaluation pointed out that the tariff reductions had offered improvements for the business community on the islands, for example. the municipality of Samsø reports that the freight aid scheme had been a significant factor in maintaining about 100 full-year jobs in agriculture and in the production, processing and packaging of fruit and vegetables. Island tourism has flourished as a result of tariff reductions. Læsø, Fanø, Samsø, Ærø report increased tourism during the spring and autumn months, the so-called shoulder season. On Samsø, up to 30% have been experienced for some months. more tourists, and on Fanoe it has been possible to attract large sports events with as many as 1,200 participants, something that before this initiative was quite unthinkable. The figures from Danmarks Statistik and the evaluation from the Ministry thus clearly show that life on the islands is largely dependent on the connection with the mainland, where ferry tariffs and traffic equality play a crucial role not only for tourism and business but also for the settlement on the islands. In fact, the depopulation on Fanoe and Ærø has stopped, the tariff reductions have had a positive effect on the settlement on Fanoe and Ærø, which have experienced a definite increase in the settlement while it has succeeded in putting an end to the decline in the population on Samsø. I have chosen to keep Bornholm outside, and it was not easy for a Bornholmer, but here the effect of cheaper ferry tickets draws the same picture, growth and employment, progress and increased settlement. Therefore, I do not buy the argument that we should wait for a new evaluation in 2022, because evaluations we have plenty of. Every time we in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands talk with the Association of Danish Small Islands, the Association calls for full implementation, and until today this has never been contradicted by anyone. We have also evaluated the cheaper ferry tickets in committee on several occasions, and the picture was the same. Cheaper tickets provide growth, employment and increased settlement. I am surprised that my proposal does not benefit from it. Every year we visit the small islands and every year it is a unanimous committee that backs up. Again, I would like to thank you for your treatment. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that, of course, they support the cheaper ferry tickets and the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426104607	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426104637	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426104644	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution on a restart team. Again I would say: I fully agree that we must ensure a coherent Denmark with a balance between country and city. On the one hand, we must have a strong and vibrant capital, but on the other hand we must also have well-functioning provincial towns, small urban communities and lively rural areas. They are very much each other's prerequisites, and this helps us to be so well-functioning a country, that is, if we can make the interaction that exists between the forces and the challenges that exist in the cities and in the countryside work. The government's regional and rural policy statement from 2020 shows that rural areas and smaller urban communities generally face more challenges than the rest of the country. The statement illustrates that the centralisation of recent years has come at a high price, and that is why the government has already launched a number of initiatives to counteract this sad development. Covid-19 has had major consequences for Denmark in general. Society must be kick-started, and in this respect the government has focused on the fact that rural areas are taking part in the recovery and are not lagging behind, as was the case after the financial crisis. The motion for a resolution is an initiative which is likely to support growth, development and settlement in rural areas. The proposal already contains many similarities with the seven regional growth teams already launched by the government, together with the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. Both the regional growth teams and the proposed restart team aim to strengthen rural growth and employment in the long term, but regional growth teams also need more than that. Firstly, they should not work solely to ensure better rural development. Instead, their task, based on local circumstances, is to make recommendations on how growth and employment are supported throughout the region they represent. The regional growth team's objective of strengthening growth and employment is therefore not only confined to rural areas, but also targeted the entire country and therefore also rural areas. It is therefore my view and that of the government that the regional growth teams have had a greater focus on a coherent Denmark that has both a strong capital, well-functioning villages, small urban communities and living rural areas. Secondly, unlike the proposed rural restart team, the regional growth teams also have a separate focus on how the whole country gets through the corona crisis. Specifically, they have the task of making recommendations on how best to invest in local business forces, which have particular potential to bring individual parts of the country strengthened out of the corona crisis. Furthermore, regional growth teams have a wider membership class and more local players than the rebooting team of the motion for a resolution. It is to be expected that a wider group of members will be able to identify and qualify more initiatives which will strengthen the individual part of the country. For the regional growth teams, the government has set aside an amount of 500 million. kr. The money comes from the REACT-EU programme and must therefore be used to follow up the work of the growth team. That amount is considerably higher than that proposed by the Left with this motion for a resolution for a rebooting team for rural areas. The recommendations to the government must be delivered from the teams in May 2021, and it is the ambition that the follow-up to the recommendations of the regional growth teams can promote business development across the country, including in rural areas. I very much agree with the aim of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, but I do not think that is the best way to achieve it. It is my assessment that the regional growth teams can take this interaction into account more than the proposed reboot team limited to rural areas, and the government looks forward to receiving their recommendations. It is also my assessment that the regional growth teams will help to ensure better coherence between the country and the city, while focusing on rebooting Denmark. It is therefore my recommendation that the motion for a resolution be rejected, but I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105053	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105057	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The government's proposals for regional growth teams are not entirely crazy. It is not quite crazy, and it is, after all, many of the same bars that I have chosen to build the Left's proposals around. Now, however, we were not invited because it has obviously become the case that, even if we say that we do not do so, we are practicing block policy. Otherwise, the Left would have been invited to join in doing something that could help to lift the countryside. The government's growth teams are not financed by the Finance Act. We have just discussed a point for which it was impossible to find money, but this could be done in the middle of a Finance Act. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105144	As I have said, the money comes from what is called the REACT-EU programme. But I would like to arrest that claim that we should pursue block politics. I would like to take a bet in this Chamber with the rapporteur on whether most agreements have been made in the time of this government that goes over the middle, that is to say, with civil parties, or whether most agreements were made in the former Left Government that went over the middle and had a party from the red block with it. So I don't think the previous government will win that competition. We make a lot of broad agreements, and it is important for us that our work is widely anchored in the Folketing, but there are some places where it makes the best sense to make it the way it is done here, and that is of course what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105234	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105236	Thank you. I didn't get an answer to my question, but I got a song from the hot countries about block politics. I think this may be so that the present opposition is a much better opposition and takes more responsibility, among other things. For rural areas too, and that is why we were able to fight a compensatory reform in the house, even though the minister responsible did everything he could to drive it into the ditch. The opposition at that time, the last time we talked about compensatory reform, wanted nothing. I asked about the funding. Why can you find money for this when you couldn't find money to finance the previous item?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105310	No, the rapporteur asked where the funding came from, and I replied to that. However, I would like to say that we can discuss a compensatory reform if the rapporteur would like, and then we have to remember what happened when the Left Government proposed a compensatory reform. As far as I remember, nothing came of it. So let us finally take that discussion. In other words, we have made a compensatory reform which is extremely good for the vast majority of rural communities and which redistributes. Goldborgsund Municipality gets, just to mention one example, 120 million. kr. I am, of course, glad that the Left is also involved in this, but the government at that time was not able to land. So I find it hard to see that I should take criticism for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105352	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then the rapporteur's line can begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105409	Thank you, President. As the Minister has just made clear, the crisis caused by the corona has affected the whole of Denmark, and thus it has also affected rural areas. In order to mitigate the impact of the corona, we have agreed to set up seven regional restart teams to ensure that business and regions get safely through the crisis and well out on the other side, and that of course also applies to rural areas. The Left then believes that there needs to be a special team for rural areas. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is unnecessary, because the task is implicit in the teams already set up, and it may well be that it needs to be clarified. But I also believe that we are doing this alone in the debate we have here today, and we are not doing that by creating a special team. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105503	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made on the rapporteurs and it is from Mr Seligman. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105508	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. After all, I made this proposal on behalf of the Left some time ago, and it was before the government landed a political agreement with the supporting parties on something similar to what I proposed. The rapporteur has known that, I assume, because the rapporteur is very closely following what is happening in rural areas. Why did the rapporteur not ensure that we made a broad agreement in the Folketing so that the whole parliament and the rural party, with which the rapporteur and I usually lead us, could back up something that could help to kick off rural areas and perhaps also get some other input that could help create growth and employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105549	Now the rapporteur knows very well that in a government it is the ministers who make agreements and that it is not the rapporteurs. So that's actually enough answer for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105600	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105601	After all, I have known the rapporteur for many years and know how much the rapporteur is passionate about the rural area, and I also know the rapporteur well enough to know that the rapporteur is not allowed to be joked by anyone, not even by a minister. The rapporteur has great credibility in the area of rural areas. Why does the rapporteur not use it for something and ensure that we have broad agreements in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105624	I think that my rapporteur's speech is quite simply saying that the seven regional restart teams that have been created also embrace rural areas. That is why the proposal put forward here by the Left is not necessary and we cannot therefore support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105641	There are no more brief comments, and so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426105703	Thank you. All of us who live in the lovely Danish rural areas know how fantastic and special it is, i.e. by starting the day for the sound of bird singing, by standing up to the lovely nature, by feeling the tranquility of one's soul when living in nature, by belonging to a community where one cares about one another, and by heart supporting the small local businessmen, and by learning how to associate with all people, including those from whom one feels very different. Because we have to lift up a herd when we live in a rural area, so that we learn to work with all sorts of people that we would never have chosen in our own circle of friends, and that means that the people who grew up on an island or in a rural area are incredibly amazing to have as colleagues because they understand this with the art of cooperation, because that is something they have learned. On the other hand, you just zap around in circles in the cities, and there you do not have the same conditions for cooperation, because there you are not used to associating with people you are very different from. So it's amazing skills that rural people and islanders have. We all have some good ideas on how to promote rural development and the islands. In the Danish People's Party we recently presented a good and well-worked rural initiative. That was our bid on how we can together lift rural areas in a wide range of areas: it acts, among other things. to ensure that islanders under the age of 18 have the right to SU when they have to take an education which means that they simply have to move away from their island; to prevent school closures in the small rural areas and islands by returning to the old rule that there should be a vote in the school district before closing a school; to ensure better conditions for small merchants by better lending; to make transport allowances, both to increase the travel allowance, but also to make it when commuting to a rural area; and, of course, to move a lot of education and jobs to rural areas. This is a proposal which will result in a number of resolutions in the near future, all of which will benefit rural growth and development. With this proposal, the Left has another idea: a rebooting team for rural areas consisting of a number of representatives from research institutions, companies and organisations. In fact, I like the fact that the final objective must be an overall rural growth plan. I think that's super good. Do I personally believe that a restart team would be better than taking a number of concrete policy initiatives? No, I don't believe that. I have been working here for nearly 10 years, and I know that when it comes to rural development, it is not because we lack knowledge. It is not that putting people together and something like that can make us smarter, so we have a huge revelation and say, God, that's what was missing, because this rural thing is not rocket science. I think that all of us rapporteurs will get a lot of knowledge when we get to the islands and rural areas. It is not knowledge that is lacking, but it is a matter of political disagreement and, as we saw when we debated it at the end of the debate on transport equality, the will is lacking. But I also feel that when it comes to rural development, we in the Danish People's Party will not let a proposal like this one from the Left pass our noses without trying it out. Although concrete political initiatives cannot be matched, I like the proposal that it is a pressure that is put on the government to give real attention to rural development, and I therefore think we should support that. Well, let's finally try it out too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110143	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110204	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, could not be here today, so I will read her speech. To begin with, I would like to thank Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen and the other authors of the motion from the Left to table this motion for a resolution. After all, it is difficult to be anything other than happy with a proposal that will then go in directly and kick-start the rural economy. I am still standing up here and opposed to the proposal, because unfortunately it is a little too late. A little over a month ago, seven regional restart teams were set up, including: SF negotiated with the government in the Finance Act, and these regional teams are already doing a lot of what the Left's restart teams were supposed to take care of, and even have a number of advantages towards them. The aim of the regional growth teams is to strengthen growth and employment throughout the region, which also includes rural areas, and not only to boost growth, but also to propose investment in the local economy, which will ultimately benefit only rural areas, especially after several months of deadlock on the recent decommissioning. They also have the advantage of involving more relevant representatives from all over the region and not just the individual rural areas. There are representatives of industry, the trade union movement, the municipalities and then research and knowledge institutions, and where the resolution probably places more emphasis on getting greater representation from knowledge institutions, the circle of representatives is larger in the regional teams. There is therefore a much greater focus on developing a coherent Denmark linking the living rural areas with healthy urban communities and a strong capital, and it is a focus that again benefits rural areas more than the resolution. So, although I would like to commend the Left for putting forward a proposal that will develop our rural areas, we in the SF cannot vote in favour. We believe that this has been resolved with the regional teams in our Financial Law Agreement, but we also believe, in the end, that the reduced teams have significant advantages over them in the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110422	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110426	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Now I know that the rapporteur has read the speech on behalf of someone else, and that is why we may not have to ask too many questions. But I also know the rapporteur as a politician who has the courage of his opinions, and I would like to ask for a concrete assessment, because the proposal we are debating here was put forward on 5/3, which means that it has been known. The political agreement that the government has made with its support parties is probably 2-3 weeks old, so you've been aware of this proposal before making the agreement with the support parties. Why does the rapporteur think that the Left was not invited to the negotiations that the government was conducting with the support parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110512	Thank you. It is true that I have my views on things, but precisely this question I simply cannot answer, because I do not know. I think you have to ask the Minister or the government about that. I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110527	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110529	But here I had the chance to ask someone who was standing right outside and who read the speech on behalf of some others. One might get an idea called adult bullying to be left out; or that it is now the government's turn to get to the barrel, and then everyone else just has to be left out. Does the rapporteur think that rural areas deserve to be put on hold with such ideas?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110553	I clearly believe that greater cooperation between all parties is more beneficial than smaller agreements. But I simply do not know why the Left is not here, because I am not the rapporteur in this area, so I have no knowledge of what was asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110612	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110634	Thank you, President. Thank you for the proposal to the Left. However, as the other rapporteurs have also pointed out, the Left is kicking in an open door, because we have already created regional restart teams, and we have done so in the context of what the government has previously called the war box, but we have also called the green space a little more neutrally. It is, after all, short-term investments which have an expiry date, so it has felt appropriate, at least in the light of what else has been financed within that framework, to invest in the seven-part regional growth teams. We in the Radical Left are very much looking forward to seeing the recommendations of these regional growth teams. I personally feel completely like the DF's rapporteur that concrete political initiatives are often better than a large number of recommendations from wise people, where perhaps we also know in advance what they are really going to propose. I am absolutely and utterly in favour of this. I also think that the regional growth teams, which we have now agreed with the government, are filling a gap where the previous business promotion agreement may have escaped. After all, this was an agreement that we in the Radical Left chose not to participate in, because we were actually aware that there was a further centralisation in the agreement that leaves a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises a little hairy in the mailbox in rural areas and in the province. As far as we are concerned, the Business Promotion Act has, on the one hand, affected a need and created what one might call Denmark up in a higher gear compared to international competition conditions; but, on the other hand, it has also left a vacuum for this level of companies just below, which is perhaps not really large enough to actually be considered for some of the Danish Business Administration's many resources. So for us there might well be some potential in grabbing these regional growth teams and then perhaps in the long term making them permanent at some level, without me here telling you how to finance it. But that's something we can talk about when the recommendations and evaluations of these growth teams come in. In any case, it has been a great pleasure to help set up these seven regional growth teams, because with our eyes it helped a deficiency. After all, the Left is making a proposal today about something that we have already done, and it is wonderful that we agree that there should be these growth teams and that this is actually a very good idea. But from there we cannot actually support the proposal, because we really think we have already done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110918	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426110920	Thanks for the speech. You can get a little jealous when you're in my shoes that the Radicals were allowed to join. We really would have liked to have been, precisely because this has some perspectives. The agreement was made after we made our proposal. In order to strengthen my self-esteem in this way, I say that it is based on our motion for a resolution. But what if one or more of these regional growth teams points out that the implementation of the road principle is one hundred percent a prerequisite for growth on our islands, would such a recommendation be followed by a growth team?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111010	Yes, it knows that it is already radical politics. If we can find the money, then that is probably in line with what the evaluation, I hope, also points out in 2022. But how to do it, yes, that's the technique of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111021	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111023	I could understand from the rapporteur's speech that the regional growth team here is funded by the so-called war fund. There is, of course, plenty of air to finance the full implementation of the road principle. Couldn't you start there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111038	No, because you have the problem that it is not permanent means. So again, a full phase-in will then be a transition, and on the other side of it we are going to find lasting means for it. So for me, it's not the right place to place this action.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111054	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111112	Thank you. The desire for more rural development and settlement is fully shared in the Enhedslisten. For too long a policy has been pursued which has starved the areas outside the big cities. For many years, we have seen a tendency for more people to move into the larger cities and that, at the same time, it is becoming more and more difficult to make small communities stick together. The school closes, the grocery store does the same thing, and the other jobs in the area also disappear. Repeated centralisations have made it possible for the city hall, the police and the hospital to be extended at the same time, and it does not of course help that there has also been longer and longer between buses. The Enhedslisten clearly supports identifying the underlying reasons why Denmark is out of balance when we look at the relationship between country and city. It is absolutely necessary to identify this in order to be able to bring the solutions closer to them. That's why Enhedslisten also helped to set up these seven regional restart teams as part of the Finance Act, which, spread across Denmark, will look at how we will create development throughout Denmark. We would very much like to see the outcome of this work before further action is taken. As in the previous resolution, which we have just considered, reference has been made to the Left's proposal on financial priorities, but here too the proposers do not come up with a concrete offer of funding, and on that basis the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111247	Thank you. I do not see any brief comments, and that is why, after despriting, we can move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111309	Denmark is a small but lovely country with bright beech forests, waving grainy fields and, as I could see this morning, snowy weather in April, although we had just hoped for spring. We have anemones on the forest floor, we have bird singing at the top, we have islands, and we have mainland. We have a country that, despite small distances, is characterized by diversity, from the Jutland heath to Bornholm's rocks. And we must ensure that Denmark is more connected and that the Danish cohesion force also includes infrastructure and economic opportunities to settle, even in those areas where the bus does not go once an hour, perhaps not even once a day. It is those parts of Denmark where there is absolutely starry no light from cities that weaken the shine of the stars, and those parts of Denmark where the silence is to feel. That is why I am generally in favour of most of the proposals that will ensure all parts of Denmark, because it must also be even more attractive to live there. In new citizens, we want traffic equality. It should not be more expensive to drive 1 km than to sail 1 km. We want an improved and enhanced infrastructure. We want to remove the registration tax and halve the petrol tax, because it must be possible for all Danes to have both safer and cheaper cars. I look forward to the committee reading of this proposal, because we must ensure that everyone in Denmark has a voice, in terms of how we ensure islands and rural areas, and hopefully we will also clarify how best to secure all parts of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111500	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we now move on to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Peter Juel-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111524	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank both the Minister and the rapporteurs for their speeches. It can be said that they fall in a dry place, because while the cities roar out there, our rural areas are much slower. Our rural areas are challenged, which is backed by figures from Statistics Denmark showing that the outer municipalities have lost 10% overall. of the jobs in 2018 measured in relation to 2008, the city municipalities were milder affected by the financial crisis, and in cities 8 per cent have been experienced. more jobs during the same period. With what we are going through and which has been going on since March last year, this motion for a resolution is an attempt to get ahead, because no one knows what it looks like on the other side, and no one knows in what condition we are going to get out on the other side, and that is why we must start working now. Strength positions must be found, they must be grown, and new sprouts must be nurtured and fertilised. I can read that in the middle of April a similar initiative has been made, which is called waketeams, restart teams or growth teams, it should not separate us, and to quote a Chinese, Deng Xiaoping, it doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice and that was probably in connection with a fight with the former President Mao Zedong's line. But whether it's called one thing or the other shouldn't separate us. We just wanted to help ensure that we had the best possible agreement for our rural areas. I could not know back in February when I submitted my motion for a resolution what agreement the government would make. I could only relate to what all of them, namely the experts, whom we sometimes lean on and lean on during the critical development of the financial crisis, thought, and they thought that the corona crisis could be much worse than the financial crisis for our rural areas. That is why action had to be taken. After all, I had hoped that, together and in the light of today's debate, we could have drawn up an ambitious plan for our rural areas, which would include overall targets for economic development up to 2030. That we should have at least 5%. more private jobs in our rural and peripheral municipalities by 2030, so that private employment could be strengthened with about 30,000 jobs, that we could agree on at least the same GDP growth for the rest of the country by 2030 in our rural areas, and that unemployment in our rural and peripheral municipalities should fall to a level that we knew just before the Corona crisis is, for example,. Three objectives for which we could have made policy. But don't get me wrong. I am pleased that the government has taken the initiative on some policy for our rural areas. But how nice it would have been if one had had the courage to make an agreement with the whole Danish Parliament. I think that would have made the deal much better. The government's growth teams are still away a well-preserved secret and maybe even a few more thoughts on a piece of paper. However, would it not have made sense for us to start by digging the existing framework for our rural economy and then come up with targeted proposals on how this could be improved in cooperation with them? The Left would have liked to have been involved in this work because we are usually the guarantor that things are getting better. I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they agree with everything, including the statement that when the Left is on board, things generally improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111922	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111927	Thank you, President. I find it difficult to recognise that this is a well-preserved secret, but the rapporteur must then take that on his own cloak. Nor do I recognize that the Left was not invited to the negotiations on restarting Denmark. After all, it was the entire war box and what we ended up calling the green room for manoeuvre, which was the framework for what we were doing at that time. Can the rapporteur confirm or deny that the reason why the Left withdrew was that the Left could not see itself in the car agreement we were making at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426111959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112000	I am well aware that the Left was not part of the car agreement, but that an agreement on our cars and their taxation should have something to do with how to kick off our rural areas are two things I cannot get to swing together. This corresponds to the example we had in the previous paragraph, where some thought that cheaper ferry tickets to the islands could not be supported, because we also have to take quota refugees. Well, that's not good reasoning in my book. The Left is with all places where we can help promote growth and development and thus create jobs and settlements in our rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112042	Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112043	Then I am just surprised that the Left signed out of that car agreement and thus actually signed out of helping to sign up for the overall green growth plan for Denmark. But that must be it. And I still have to find out why the Left actually withdrew from that car agreement, but I will not ask the rapporteur about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112104	Well, I think the rapporteur can get an answer to that. Perhaps the rapporteur should have raised this question in the course of the debate: why would the Left not be involved? This must of course be important in order to ensure continuity, and the rapporteur hopefully also has the political ballast that, when we start good negotiations on things that will help bring Denmark forward, we have as large a majority from Christiansborg as possible in our luggage. But when it comes to our rural areas, the Left is always in front of the Radicals too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112135	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112157	The debate is open. The Minister of Home Affairs and Home Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112216	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by thanking the parties behind the Agreement on National Sustainable Construction Strategy of 5 March 2021 for some good and constructive negotiations where we have jointly established the framework for the long-term green conversion of construction. I am very pleased and satisfied that with the broad political agreement we have created an ambitious basis for sustainable construction in Denmark. For there is no doubt that construction must be brought into a new green age, where climate-friendly solutions go hand in hand with healthy, good and cheap construction. As you know, the proposers are also part of the policy debate on National Sustainable Construction Strategy. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers want to require the government to make proposals, on the one hand, so that, in connection with the construction and renovation of the municipalities and regions, a maximum level of CO2 can be demanded for sustainability. Firstly, I should like to point out that it is already possible for municipalities and regions to demand a maximum level of CO2 in European countries which are well advanced in their work on climate requirements for buildings, such as the United Kingdom. Netherlands or France or Finland, current or future requirements for CO2 There is also no knowledge of other countries that are currently planning to introduce life cycle calculation requirements for renovations and therefore no limit values for renovations. With regard to exempting the buildings of municipalities and regions that meet certain sustainability requirements from the construction ceiling, the level of demarcation of the municipal and regional construction framework is agreed between the government, KL and Danske Regions in the context of the annual negotiations on the economy of the municipalities and regions. Expenditure on construction investments in sustainable construction will affect total public expenditure on an equal footing with other municipal and regional investments. Thus, if expenditure currently covered by the construction framework is to be exempted from expenditure management through the agreed construction framework, it will require separate financing of a higher level of municipal and regional construction costs for the total economic space. Alternatively, public finances are weakened. Therefore, the exemption of specific capital costs from the capital framework would crowd out spaces to other public investments within the overall cost framework, such as public transport, infrastructure or the like. The current framework management of the total gross construction costs of the municipalities and regions supports that the individual municipalities and regions must make priorities of their capital investment in the light of local needs and wishes within the overall responsible framework. The governance also supports the overall development of public expenditure in line with the government's economic plans. In my optics, it is crucial that we make future sustainability requirements for construction on a professionally based and enlightened basis. As part of the Political Agreement on National Sustainable Construction Strategy, work has also been started to clarify overall assessments of renovations, which include: contribute to supporting decision on possible demolition or conversion by renovations that may reflect the right balance between economy, quality and long-term climate impacts. In this context, the parties to the agreement agreed to meet at the end of 2022, where the parties to the agreement will receive a reporting on the initiative. It is a debriefing and discussion that I am looking forward to, and I do not think we can pre-discount the actual outcome of the work in concrete decisions right now. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112609	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112615	It is a pity, though, that the Minister for Housing, who has now also become the Minister for the Interior, cannot endorse our motion for a resolution. It is quite true that we are calling for a very active approach to the construction ceiling in the forthcoming negotiations with KL, and I think it is quite natural that the government should have a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing and have a dialogue with its parliamentary basis on whether or not there is something we can do better. After all, I note that the government has little difficulty in finding all the tools to achieve the goals of the climate agenda for a 70-percent reduction by 2030, and that is where I think it is important to try to ensure that municipalities can be involved in that process. We believe that our motion for a resolution can move forward here by giving the municipalities a freer framework for spending more money, and there are municipalities that have money, so I cannot really understand why the Minister is simply rejecting our resolution in this way. Does the Minister not agree that municipalities should have a more active role in the climate struggle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112717	I believe that municipalities have many opportunities to play an active role, including in relation to CO2 but I must also say something else. Now it is mentioned that it is natural. I do not think it is natural for us to go through a two-and-a-half-month negotiation process with several technical reviews and long discussions to reach a compromise... did the sound fall out here? Yeah, I think something happened).
ParlaMint-DK_20210426112745	I think we're just gonna take a deep breath, and maybe it'll come through again. I'm not gonna call you, because I'm gonna need the whole machine to start up again. Work is being done on this and, as I said, I'm not gonna call you, because then we're gonna have to run through the whole machine. So both to the mfs in the Chamber and to those who may listen, I would like to say that there will be a small break until we get the technique back on track. The reason why we are paused is that we do not have sound, and when we do not have sound, we cannot subsequently make a record from the Parliamentary Chamber, and we must be able to do so. So we're gonna take it easy. Thank you very much for your flexibility. As I understand it, we can't use sir either. Søren Egge Rasmussen's microphone. And as I understood, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen answers his first question, so there is half a minute to the second question. I only just got started). The questioner needs to get back in. I am sorry to the questioner, but this is the easiest way to deal with this situation. I don't think sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen gets some light in his microphone, so he just has to ask the question, and there is 1⁄2 minute speaking time, and that is Question No. 2. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I did not get the answer to the first question). I'm sorry, I understand that the Minister didn't get the answer to the question. I'm the one who screwed up. So now we get the answer to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's first question, and then Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen asked his second question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113256	Thank you. Doesn't it count here? President No, I shall find out; I shall run it as normal). Well, that's a slightly different framework to answer in. But now to hold on to it, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen asked about what is natural, I would say that I certainly do not think it is natural that we should go through a negotiation process of over 21⁄2 months. We bow to each other, find a compromise that makes sense to people, and then we in the Parliamentary Assembly will have to decide on additional measures which some of those who negotiated seemed to make sense. That is certainly not what I think it is natural to do. I think that is a good compromise we have. One of the things that was discussed along the way was also new construction and the question of whether life cycle analysis could be carried out on it, and it became clear that it did not form part of the agreement, which is why I do not believe that it can subsequently be entered into the agreement by means of a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113357	Unfortunately, this is a little more hassle than I thought, because we have to ask those who ask questions to get on the platform (the Home and Interior Minister Well, just like in the old days) yes, just like in the good old days. But it also means that we have to get dried up and stuff like that all the time. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen with his second question up here from the platform. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113425	Indeed, it ends up with the Minister being happy with our question, and we will see when he responds to our proposal because he is so fond of the whole séance. And it is our clear view that we must go further than what is in the agreement. I am well aware that there are some things in the agreement that have been ordered and I think that we have not given sufficient priority to renovations. And if you look at the renovation deficit that is out there in the municipalities, then we will have to do more. That is why we think it is very natural that we should go for it to enter into a municipal agreement, where we are actively dealing with which elements of the construction ceiling can be exempted in this way, and we have also noted that the municipalities are already capable of prioritising. They're down to 10 kg CO2 reduction per. square meters that you can already make. That is why we are tabling this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113522	Thank you. Then we're gonna have to get the liquor off. And then we're gonna put the minister on the platform. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113536	Thank you. Yeah, well, I don't really disagree with the fact that the municipalities should be given the opportunity to take the lead. But I also think it is important to stick to the fact that if we make a demand from the central team here in the Danish Parliament that the municipalities should also carry out life cycle analysis on renovations, which, after all, no countries in the world do, then we also put them in a situation where you really do not have any professional ballast; there is no basis for doing so. And yes, we can risk doing so in such a way that nothing can be renovated around the municipalities at all. But I do have sympathy for taking the lead, and I think that Enhedslisten should take it with him when there are financial law negotiations next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113619	Thank you. Then we thank the Minister. First, Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113634	Yes, thank you. I'll just have to run the platform a little up so I can look beyond that one. Now, actually, I think there's sound, yes, it's there. With this resolution, the Enhedslisten proposes to introduce sustainability requirements in connection with renovations of municipal and regional buildings. In addition, it is proposed that municipalities and regions should be exempted from the plant ceiling in relation to construction which complies with a certain sustainability requirement. In the Social Democratic Party, we are committed to making construction at home more sustainable, and the green transition has been a key priority in our party for several years. We have an ambition that the green transition should take place in all parts of Danish society, including construction. We are therefore pleased that at the beginning of March 2021 a broad majority of Parliament's parties reached an ambitious agreement on a national strategy for sustainable construction. This strategy ensures a long-term sustainable conversion of the construction sector, which reduces the climate impact and resource consumption of construction. The agreement includes, inter alia: an element on overall assessment of renovations to ensure that renovations and renovations are made as climate-friendly as possible. Since the parties of the Folketing have recently reached a broad agreement on a national strategy for sustainable construction, which Enhedslisten is also part of, and which also contains a key element in ensuring sustainable renovations and construction, we in the Social Democratic Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. I can see, we now have the full sound, and that also means that you now have to sit wherever you want. Then you just have to log in if you want a brief remark from the place you are sitting at now, or you can return to your original place. So thank you for that flexibility. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426113846	Yeah, thanks for that. In the Left we see huge potential when it comes to the green transition, for our businesses, for our jobs. We believe that green climate policy is also a green transition to construction. It is therefore positive that we in the Folketing have broadly agreed on a national strategy for sustainable construction, where together with construction we have established a framework that can broadly help to move the sector in a more sustainable direction, where we phase in building regulations requirements for buildings' climate footprints; with requirements for LCA calculation, with requirements for a CO2 limit value. We therefore agree with the proposers that we also have a responsibility in the public sector and, as we see it, an opportunity to contribute to the green transition when building and renovating our public buildings. We agree that municipalities should focus on indoor climates in their buildings, not least when children and young people are staying there. It is also my clear impression that there is a great deal of focus in local government on this, in other words in our municipalities. The plant ceiling, which this proposal also deals with, was introduced in 2013, and this was, among other things, the case. to ensure that we make the best use of the economy we have at our disposal; that we get the most for the money and that we secure the jobs we have in construction. It is the case that today we have many who come to Denmark from among others. Eastern Europe for a number of reasons. to contribute at our construction sites, and we just think it is extremely important that we stick to the fact that the fact that we have the plant ceiling can help to ensure that, in times of decline, we can also maintain jobs in Denmark for the benefit of the people who are in the building. And then we also think it is essential that there is a focus on making the best use of the available economy. And some of what we are experiencing at the moment is, of course, among other things. big increases in construction, so it is also about using the overall economy we have in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114104	Thank you. A brief remark, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114105	Oh, my God, the sound's working again. I am glad, however, that the rapporteur has touched on the issue of the plant ceiling and how we manage it. But how can we know for sure if we are setting off too little? I think that there are a number of municipalities which actually have money to be able to renovate more, but they just cannot do so because of the plant ceiling. And then I think it is fair in such a process that we then require the municipalities to renovate in a certain standard. That is why we have proposed that it is only if one has a politically defined standard in one's renovations that one can be exempted from the construction ceiling and the same should apply to new buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114200	Well, there is no doubt that if we pulled it all off now, we would at least be saying right now that we could move a proper step forward. But we also want it to be looked at in a slightly longer perspective, and that is where we think the plant ceiling has a purpose. It is intended to hold hands during Danish jobs in times of decline and to ensure that there is a level employment in the building, where it does not run off completely and we would have to import lots of labour in order for that work to be done? So we think that there is a need for a balance there. However, we agree with the focus of the proposers when it is important for our children to be able to go to school where there is healthy and good. And now I think that there is a great deal of focus on this in the municipalities, although we would like to see even more pressure being put on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114250	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114252	But when you have a general construction ceiling, you are in a situation where you have the same rules for all municipalities, regardless of what the employment situation is, and I find that very unfortunate. I mean, for example, in connection with... The green housing agreement for the general sector was one that looked at the need to keep an eye on employment developments in different places, so that, in the same way, you could have a slightly more intelligent plant ceiling, which allows you to set up a number of renovations in some outlying municipalities, even though there was a shortage of labour in Aarhus and Copenhagen. Can the rapporteur not see that we could have a fixed ceiling that was somewhat more flexible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114328	In any case, I think that we should always be open to assess how to do these things in the best possible way. Because it's important that we focus on this balance between country and city, and that we don't think it's all just the same. So I really think that there should be openness in relation to constantly debating whether there are any of these things we can do better. In general terms, however, the construction ceiling actually serves the purpose of ensuring that we have a smooth and good job in construction. So, even and even, it is with all sorts of reservations, because there is really a lot of pressure at the moment, and there are also some of the political agreements we have made, among other things. In general construction. So there's also to keep that balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114409	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114429	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution. I do not really have much to add to what the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left and the Socialists have mentioned here from the platform. I would like to say, however, that I understand that the Minister is a little surprised that a resolution of this nature comes so quickly after an agreement we have just reached. It's unusual, but of course not forbidden. After all, it is a government of the people, it is a parliament that we sit in, so it is always good to discuss sustainable solutions. I miss what it will cost, though. There is a renovation deficit of at least 70 billion. kr., but I think it's a little difficult to see what this will actually mean for the municipalities and therefore also for the state, for the state must then somehow even equalise the municipalities. I know that the municipalities are already refurbishing energy. They've been at it for years. I am not sure that it is the right solution to make an exception to the plant ceiling, because it is quite right, as the Minister says, that it will just go beyond other areas that are equally important. I can just mention school buildings or school renovations. And then it's a little narrow-minded when you only talk about CO2 There's a lot of other things at stake when we talk about sustainability. But that is not to say that we will not be taking part in the committee procedure, and we would also like to know more about what this will cost and how it might be combined. So we do not really know what to say to this other than that we cannot support it in its present form, as it has been put forward. After all, we are actually pleased with the agreement we have recently reached widely in the Danish Parliament on more sustainability in construction as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114648	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114653	What's it gonna cost? Yes, that would give the municipalities a smaller cost of their warming up. And I don't think it's a narrow aim. We have even been so nice that we have referred to a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party on better indoor climates. So it is not just a climate agenda; it is also a question of finding that we have some buildings in municipalities and regions where there is a healthy indoor climate, which provides a plus working environment and, for example, as well. provides a plus for children's learning ability in schools. I have noted that there was indeed a majority in favour of the resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which states that the government should call the parties of the Danish Parliament for further discussions on it, and I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party has heard of a follow-up to that motion for a resolution, because it was promised that there was a Minister for Children and Education who would call for discussions in order to get on with it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114756	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114757	No, I know nothing has happened. The resolution to which the rapporteur refers was about the indoor climate in schools, and we were very pleased when we saw that Enhedslisten mentioned it in this resolution. It also somehow made it a little difficult for us to be too critical of this when there's something good in it. I would just like to repeat that we would, of course, like to take part in the committee's examination of the proposal, and I would also like to reiterate that the municipalities are already engaged in these energy renovations because they are worth their while.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114833	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114835	Well, then, I look forward to an open discussion in committee, and then we can look at whether we can again find a majority around the government to write a report that prioritises and prioritises indoor climate and prioritises climate action. It could be interesting if the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten could agree on such a story, because that was what happened last time. After all, the Enhedslisten endorsed that report and we have an active approach to achieving a much better indoor climate in our public buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114908	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114910	When you reach Enhedslisten a little finger, they often take their whole arm. I do not know whether we can find a majority, but at least we would like to take part in the committee procedure, and then it may end up with a fine little report. We are very open to it, as I said, so it is not a total rejection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114924	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments. After a little cleaning, we move on to Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426114947	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten for presenting this resolution, which aims to make a sustainability requirement for a maximum CO2 I SF, we welcome Enhedslisten's commitment, as the green transformation of the construction sector is crucial for achieving the objectives of the Climate Act. A great many municipal and regional buildings are being built and renovated, and it is only fair and fair that the public sector should take the lead in the fight for the green transition. During the previous negotiations on a sustainable construction strategy, we fought in the SF to allow municipalities and regions to set a CO2 for which we continue to fight, and we want the demand to be phased in as soon as possible and to include as many buildings as possible. We owe this to our climate and to the generations who will live here on earth in the future. Therefore, we would like to support that part of the resolution, which includes a sustainability requirement for the new construction and renovations of municipalities and regions, but the part about the fact that building and renovations that comply with the sustainability requirement must be completely exempted from the plant ceiling, we cannot support it. In SF we believe that focus should be on energy renovations. The plant ceiling helps to put renovations of existing buildings under pressure, and we have therefore also proposed in the past that energy renovations should be exempted from the plant ceiling. This will bring a climate gain, and then the renovated buildings will also benefit the indoor climate and the health of all of us. On the basis of the part of this motion for a resolution on new construction, we propose that only the additional costs of building within the sustainability requirement should be exempted from the plant ceiling. This means that only the additional costs incurred in meeting the sustainability requirement are exempt from the construction ceiling and not the entire construction. By exempting the entire building industry, we risk hitting at a disadvantage, as we do not solve our climate challenges by giving municipalities incentives to build a lot of new ones. In addition, we already have quite strict requirements for new construction. Instead, we should focus on energy renovations, as by far the biggest climate problems are found in our existing older buildings, which are often in very poor energy condition. With these comments, I can say that the SF cannot support this resolution in its current form, but that we would like to see the part about a sustainability requirement in municipal and regional construction adopted. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115232	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115235	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that it is possible to support the part that is about imposing additional requirements in relation to what we have already agreed in the national strategy for sustainable construction. Can the rapporteur explain a little more clearly what we are thinking about the requirements for municipal buildings? Which CO2 Well, you must have thought about it when you go in and support it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115304	We would like us to go all in in relation to making demands on new buildings. I do not have a concrete CO2 figure on how much it should be, but we go all in, in terms of making demands on our new buildings and also on the existing ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115327	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115328	Is it not the rapporteur's view that the tools set out in the national strategy for sustainable construction should not be waited for in local and regional authorities? That's how I hear it. And is what the rapporteur also says that whatever the size of the building there is, it must be implemented and that we must go as far as we can, but without the rapporteur setting a limit? I'm a little puzzled, may I say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115402	We would like to move forward the process in terms of making demands on our construction activities. In fact, we have said that earlier in the negotiations when we were just talking about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115420	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115436	Thank you very much, President. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. In the Radical Left, we are fully involved in making climate demands for public construction, and this also applies, of course, to municipalities and regions. We really think it is a sensible approach that the requirements should be gradually tightened up towards 2030. We have also just adopted climate requirements for all buildings, but one could well imagine that, in the Radical Left, we could well imagine that the requirements for public construction were even stricter than the general requirements. What I don't quite understand is the desire to connect climate requirements and plant ceiling. You can easily have climate requirements for the construction of municipalities and regions without relaxing the plant ceiling, just as we have already decided to have it for all construction projects of over 2,000 m2 from 2023. After all, the construction ceiling has its very good reason for managing the public economy. Now, in a crisis situation, here during the pandemic and the corona crisis, we have chosen to derogate from the plant ceiling, but in the future it will again be relevant to have the public finances under control, and perhaps even more so, when the cost of the corona crisis is to be paid, and this proposal today goes all the way up to 2030. The authors of the proposals point to the need for more impetus in the Danish economy, and I find it difficult to disagree with that, but the construction is perhaps one of the areas where there is currently no need for more coal on the boilers. I am quite sure that there are many who are facing the challenges of getting a craftsman. I cannot understand why it should be voluntary for municipalities and regions to meet climate requirements, as this resolution really will do. On the part of the Radical Left, we would prefer to see all public building requirements adopted and, for our sake, also more stringent requirements than the general ones. In those words, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115646	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115648	Thank you. I also think that it is easy to look at making stricter demands on municipalities and regions and also on the state when it comes to renovating and building new buildings, so that the public sector takes the lead. I think this is actually natural, even when the Danish Parliament has adopted ambitious climate targets. I also note that in the negotiations we had on sustainable construction, there were some figures that actually indicated that the municipalities in their new construction are already well above the demand for CO2 so the municipalities are already showing that they are on their way. If we do not relax the plant ceiling, then less will happen. That is why we are proposing to lift the plant ceiling when making sensible renovations and new buildings, which in general go further in environmental terms. We think this is quite natural. I can see that there could be different models for the regional, so you didn't have the same rule all over the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115755	Thank you. It is precisely in relation to the other models that we in the Radical Left are ready to soften our heads, because we fully agree that the public should take the lead. We are just questioning whether relaxing the plant ceiling is the right way to go, among other things. because it will put municipalities and regions in a position where they can voluntarily choose whether they want to introduce these sustainability and climate requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115826	Thank you. I am now looking at the rapporteurs because lunch is announced at noon. 12.00, but my assessment is that we may have to finish this motion for a resolution. And I see support for that. That's why we'll move on when we've been cleaned. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426115901	Thank you, President. Then you can make it. And I'll be brief. There has already been a great deal of relevance from colleagues, and I am here as a municipal rapporteur, because that is Mr. Marcus Knuth, housing rapporteur. But this is, like, a little bit both ways. After all, no one can oppose energy efficiency and better indoor climate. There are a great many cases of poor indoor climate, especially here in the capital, in schools, for example, and we are also lagging behind in implementing the EU's binding target of energy efficiency of at least 20%. last year in 2020, and it was an objective set in 2010. So there is a lot to be done, and a lot of municipalities have also been going on for a long time, and then some have not. There you can also ask why they haven't moved. This may not only have something to do with the plant ceiling. But if you relax the plant ceiling right now, the budgets will run pretty out of hand and, as has already been mentioned, the construction sector is quite overheated right now, and we will get a lot of money for our municipal buildings. The second reason why we will not support this proposal is precisely the agreement that has just been reached on sustainable construction, which will not enter into force until 2023. One could then have discussed whether we should not have put it into effect earlier, but we should not have to take that up again. It's landed. There are a lot of people in the sector who think that more could be done, also because we have LCA assessments of what can be done out there, but there is no need to make greater demands on the municipalities when we start nationally in 2023. In relation to whether it is much more expensive to build sustainablely, I would say that there are different assessments of that, but much shows that it is actually not much more than 2-5 per cent. More expensive to build sustainably, as it is today. The margin and I also talked to the major construction contractors yesterday, who are going the sustainable road ■ is the transport to and from construction sites, and then there is how to deal with waste. And some of it lies, you might say, outside the realm of the builders or builders' women. So it is a good intention to try to do something good for the environment and the climate. We'd love to. 40% of our energy is being used in buildings, but it is not this road that is being proposed that we can support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426120130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And after some cleaning, I welcome the rapporteur for the proposers, Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426120150	Thank you. After all, it is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on sustainable construction and renovations in the municipalities and regions that we have discussed. What the proposal is specifically about is that the Folketing instructs the government to make the necessary proposals, etc. Before the end of 2021, so that the construction and renovation of municipalities and regions can be subject to a sustainability requirement with a maximum CO 2 2 square metres per year. years. This requirement must be progressively tightened up until 2030, in parallel with what is in the agreement on sustainable development, but it could be at a higher level or lower, purely CO2, what we are proposing is that for municipalities and regions that meet the requirements, the costs of the building in question will be exempted from the plant ceiling. I could imagine that there is a differentiation which means that there are different requirements in different parts of the country, just as when we made the green housing agreement and stressed that employment should be monitored regionally, so that we did not get too many renovations started if it was the case that there were areas in Denmark that had a shortage of labour. Public construction and publicly supported construction represent a very large proportion of the total construction. For municipalities alone, up to 2023, more than 70 billion will be built and renovated. kr. In addition, the public sector, and in particular the municipalities, is facing a huge renovation deficit. In their analysis, the Association of Advisory Engineers estimates that there is a renovation deficit in public buildings of at least 70 billion. kr. The analysis points out, among other things: in the municipal sector, where there is a significant backlog. Among the biggest challenges facing the municipalities are poor indoor climates, among others. schools. The assessment of the state of the municipalities' buildings covers a large spread in the state of buildings. Thus, the municipalities typically have a number of buildings with a poor or critical condition or even lower. The state of municipal buildings is expected to decline in the coming years, mainly due to a lack of funds for renovation and new construction. Again, it is the analysis that is the source of it, the State of the Nation 2020. Making public new buildings and public renovation projects sustainable will help drive the whole building to become more sustainable. At the same time, it will develop competences and experiences that can help to raise the overall construction. In addition, renovations will help improve the indoor climate of buildings. According to an analysis, Denmark can save 40 billion. kr. in so-called multiple benefits up to 2050 if our buildings are renovated. This includes only the reduced costs of respiratory diseases, such as: sickness absence, health costs and loss of productivity in the workplace. Thus, the real saving potential of improving the indoor climate is probably significantly greater. This is among other things. came forward in an analysis of the socio-economic potential of energy savings from Ea Energy Analyses and from SYNERGI, which tried to put renovations back on the agenda in 2019. A majority of Parliament's parties considered it important to improve indoor climate conditions in schools in connection with the submission of a report on the draft parliamentary resolution on a better indoor climate in schools, B 22, which the Danish People's Party had put forward. There is thus a report which requires the government to call for negotiations, and it could be fine in the committee procedure here to clarify how far there is in the discussions on ensuring a better indoor climate in our schools. In order to remove the obstacles to more sustainable construction and, moreover, to boost the Danish economy, the current motion for a resolution points out that municipalities and regions should be exempted from the plant ceiling in respect of projects which comply with a specific sustainability requirement. The government is conducting negotiations on the definition of the level of sustainability requirement for a maximum CO2 In this respect, I noticed that when the government recently came up with its proposal on sustainable construction, we had thus seen a whole construction industry • all corners of the area that wanted something that was more ambitious. So I think we're in a situation here where we can have the construction sector with us and where there may be some accounts in the Home and Home Department that need to get into a slightly higher gear and where you have to open the window and look at what's happening in the outside world. We are in the middle of a climate crisis where Denmark has to find 70%. CO2 It is therefore in this situation that it is important to get the municipalities involved in these processes, to get the municipalities to participate in the climate agenda. I think they'd like that. This shows a number of municipalities, but they also point out that the plant ceiling imposes restrictions, and that is why we have included it in our resolution. So this proposal is not just about energy saving and climate change, it is also about better working conditions and better well-being in schools, better learning ability for pupils who have their schooling there. I would like to thank you for the debate. Some critical questions have been asked about this, and I really believe that if this proposal were adopted, I would have confidence in the municipalities and their planning of supply processes, and it would not be possible to start much more if it were known that the local employment situation could lead to higher prices. I think we will have more interaction with the municipalities if we give the municipalities a freer framework. I would like to thank the Minister for finding what the municipalities are doing in terms of climate. I quite agree with that. Then we will have to try, in cooperation with each other, to figure out how to solve it. Because I think that with the agreement we reached on sustainable construction, we did not achieve the renovation side. Then I can see that some reports have been ordered well enough but half of the construction is about renovations, so we also need to include that activity in our policy efforts. Whether we can come up with a report for which there is a majority, as has happened in the past with the Danish People's Party, I find it exciting to see, especially if the content is good. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for your reception, which shows that all parties, in such a way, weigh up the construction and sustainable construction and the role of the municipalities in it, even though they do not fully endorse the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426120912	There is a brief comment from Mrs Heidi Bank, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426120913	Yes, thank you for that, and it is really a quick question: does the Enhedslisten recognise that the proposal will increase the need for foreign labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426120926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426120927	No, I do not think that can be said so clearly, because what is the employment situation in construction in two years' time? We don't know that much. But if we adopted this, we would give the municipalities a freer framework to be able to prioritise this and new construction without being restricted by the construction ceiling. I think that would be an advantage. Then there would be some municipalities where there is not the same construction activity as in the largest cities where there is not the same activity around the renovation of general housing because there are not so many general housing. So I'm not so worried about it. I think that if we really believe that there is a shortage of labour in the construction industry, it is well now that we should make an extra effort to secure apprenticeships for all the Danish young people who, as such, want a future as builders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426121020	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426121022	Well, I have to admit, I think there's been some talk here. We know that there are already thousands of people coming from abroad today, and we should be happy to work here. So to say that it may vary in the municipalities, as I hear the rapporteur say, I simply think it is wrong. It is already the case today that in order for us to run the agreements, we have just such a thing as the green housing agreement for the general building industry, it requires that there is foreign labour in Denmark. So what I'm hearing at least is that Enhedslisten is positive that more people are going to work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426121059	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426121100	The Enhedslisten is very much in favour of ensuring that the contractual conditions that apply to the Danish labour market are also respected when there is foreign labour. And we also have a great deal of focus on the fact that the accommodation conditions for foreign labour must be at a higher level than they are with the recent bill that was adopted and that does not ensure that you have your own room if you are builders from Eastern Europe and are accommodated in some container. So we have a lot of focus on it. And with the slowness of legal proceedings, I am not so nervous that something that has an effect in 2-3 years' time was adopted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426121135	Talk to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their flexibility along the way when we had technical problems. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to interrupt the meeting for a lunch break. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426130003	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. The Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426130031	Thank you for that, President. The proposers want to oblige the government to abolish the certification scheme for fire counsellors and staticians for small constructions. Instead, it is proposed that the handling of small buildings and buildings in fire class 2 should be returned to the municipalities. I would like to start by thanking you for the motion for a resolution, because I fully agree that parts of the system have not worked optimally. Of course, solutions must be found for this. Therefore, the Government has also initiated a number of changes to the scheme, which will enter into force on 1 July 2021. That is why I do not agree with the solution set out in the motion for a resolution. It is neither appropriate nor feasible in time, and the motion for a resolution, if adopted, will lead to new problems and bottlenecks for construction. The motion for a resolution will mean that the building partners will have to adapt to new ways of doing things again, and this can be a source of more confusion and unrest. There is no doubt that the building regulations 18 and the certification scheme have been and continue to be a major change for the construction industry as a whole, for the developers and for the municipalities, and in particular the consultants and municipalities have had to adapt to new roles and new responsibilities, as well as the changed way of organising technical construction treatment. The certification scheme became compulsory only on 1 January 2020, so the scheme is still relatively new. As with all other news, it takes time to adapt to the many complex cases in a building case so that the scheme can function as intended. During the time it has worked, the rules have been continuously adjusted to find an appropriate level of documentation and control that reconciles security with regard to flexibility and administration and further adjustments are under way. Right now, most of the rules are in consultation, and it is my expectation that most of the issues raised in relation to the system can be resolved within the framework of the amended rules. In addition, the conversion of the technical construction case has taken place at a time when the construction work is doing very well. There is the highest construction activity in 50 years, and we should all be happy about that, because then there are jobs for people and homes for people. The Corona crisis has not affected the activity of the construction industry. On the contrary, it has increased and there is no prospect that progress will stop just for the time being. The activity has been helped well on the way by e.g. the agreement we have made on the renovation of general housing. In addition, the plant ceiling has been suspended by 2020 and it has been exceptionally lifted this year. This, of course, contributes to a higher construction activity. Growth can also be seen in the number of building cases which, according to the Building and Housing Register, have increased dramatically in recent years. While 27,000 building cases were created in 2019, as many as 51,000 building cases were created in 2020. So it's almost a doubling. The trend is evidence of a building boom which, of course, contributes to creating longer waiting times and higher prices for construction products, craftsmen and consultants. When the construction goes out of it as it is now, it also pushes the administrative systems in the municipalities. The proposers want smaller buildings not to be covered by the same requirements as larger buildings. It is already the case that there are different requirements for smaller construction sites and larger construction sites. Through the division into fire and construction classes, it is a so-called de minimis limit that determines whether or not to associate a certified consultant with a building. For construction of the lowest protection class, i.e. in fire and construction class 1, you need a building permit from the municipality, but you do not need a certified consultant to document and verify the level of safety of the building. This is because there is little risk that the structures or fire protection will fail, and if the accident does happen, the consequences are deemed to be limited. Construction in safety class 1 includes e.g.: common single-family houses, double houses, terraced houses, many industrial, storage and breeding sites, less portable constructions such as tents and caravans, summer houses, colonial garden houses, camping houses etc. In addition to construction work in safety class 1, there are also construction works that need neither a building permit nor a certified consultant. This is true, for example. simple and safe construction such as garages, carports, outhouses and greenhouses. However, there is also construction that may seem simple and safe, but not necessarily safe. A small conversion of a floor housing building, where you e.g. would like to have a wall removed, is in many cases completely unproblematic, but if the wall is load-bearing, it is important that it is taken into account, as it can affect the entire structure of the building. In that case, it is also important that, for example, there should be an increase in the number of young people in the Community. is in control of whether the upper or lower have removed a wall. The failure of the load - bearing structures in the building of the floor can have quite serious consequences. Therefore, in these cases, there is a need to get a certified statician into the project to assess whether safety is in order. I agree that there are still many areas where it is meaningful and certain to remove the requirement for a certified advisor. Therefore, the list of buildings that do not require a certified advisor is even longer with the changes that have just been sent in consultation. The list will include: include small office and school buildings, shops and assembly rooms such as shelters, bonfire cabins and barbecue cabins. The proposers want the technical construction of fire class 2 buildings to be returned to the municipalities. Although fire class 2 is the lowest class of construction where a certified fire counsellor is required, it is not necessarily a simple construction. Fire class 2 thus includes buildings up to a height of 45 metres, i.e. About 16 floors. It can, for example, be done. be floor housing, larger hotels and office buildings. Many schools, leisure facilities and a number of nursing homes are also placed in fire class 2. Construction in fire class 2 is far more complicated than construction in fire class 1, which does not require a certified consultant. At the same time, there is a greater risk of an accident if fire protection fails. For example: a fire can spread, and in the worst case, injury can occur. That is why I think it is appropriate for a certified fire counsellor to check whether safety is in order. This applies, as with the work of the statics, first and foremost to safety. Municipal technical construction treatment in the field of fire and construction has been abolished. Therefore, many of the municipalities of the country no longer have the necessary powers to carry out that task. It would therefore not be appropriate or possible to return the technical construction case to the municipalities with such a short offshoot as the proposers would like. I therefore believe that such a solution will very likely involve new problems and even longer waiting times. I can assure you that I am following the scheme closely and that the Danish Housing and Planning Authority is working very hard to adjust the conditions that are inappropriate. This is done not only in cooperation with the industry, but also with the National Association of Municipalities and with a number of municipalities which are separately involved in the work of solving the problems experienced by the scheme. However, there are limits to how much changes can be made to the rules without also reducing the level of safety. It is therefore important that the consequences be carefully considered before changing the rules. I am not interested in premature changes, because in my optics it is important to involve the industry and the municipalities so that you do not end up creating new challenges and uncertainties. Although there have obviously been difficulties in moving to the certification scheme for fire counsellors and staticians, it is my clear expectation that the scheme will fully phase in will have a positive effect on construction in Denmark and will result in a uniform compliance with the technical regulations on fire safety and construction across municipalities. As has already been said, the Government has already launched a number of initiatives to address the challenges in this area, including in the field of small-scale construction. Those amendments shall enter into force on 1 July 2021. An evaluation will then be carried out in autumn to assess whether further action is needed. Against this background, I must inform you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426130850	Thank you. There are brief comments. It's first Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426130854	Thank you. And thank you for your speech, which was not quite as encouraging as I could expect from a Socialist. When you look at the fact that even some of the Socialists' politicians have been criticizing this scheme, I am very surprised that the Minister cannot see it and continues to defend that the construction process has become considerably more expensive, more difficult and slower for the smaller buildings when it is not intended to increase the level of safety. Because that's not what this is about. It is clear that the purpose of BR18 and the new certification scheme was to make the construction process faster, cheaper and more transparent, which has far from happened. How can that even be defended?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426130948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426130949	Well it can be defended in such a way that we sort of solved many of the challenges that were in relation to the fact that you could not build across municipalities without having to apply for a building permit in each municipality. Then I would like to say in relation to the fact that several of my fellow party members have criticised it, that I think it is quite real, and it is good people who are doing it. And they point out exactly what I am saying, in other words that there are some places where the system does not work. That is what we are working on; that is what we are also trying to find solutions to. We have involved the industries and the local authorities' association, and we have a dialogue both with you here and with the Danish Parliament's parties about how we make sure this works. So it is clear that if there are socialist politicians who say that something does not work, one must assume that they are right and, of course, they do in this case too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131036	Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131037	Thank you. I just want to say that the industry, that is to say those that this is about, is very, very critical, Minister, very critical. And so I wonder how the Minister can even defend this construction treatment when it has become both significantly more expensive, more cumbersome and slower for the smaller buildings and when it is not aimed at solving the level of safety. In 2015, i.e. before BR18 and the new certification scheme, Denmark was no. 5 on The World Bank Group's Doing Business ranking for our ability to handle construction case processing and building permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131129	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131130	The construction process for small construction has not increased last year, when this scheme was introduced, despite a very, very sharp increase in the number of cases. So I don't understand the context. But I would say in relation to the industry that the road to Canossa is long and stony there was no one who, like the construction industry, hastened this scheme and spoke for this scheme and tried in every way possible to make it more comprehensive and hasty. With the exception of the Construction Association and the Architects Association, the rest of the industry has done a great deal of work to get this introduced. So that they are now against it, I simply cannot understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131208	Mrs. Heidi Bank, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131209	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech by the Minister. We share this ambition that we should have a system that will work as it is intended. Can the Minister tell us a little more about the part about evaluation, because some of our priorities are that there is an ongoing evaluation, so that improvements and corrections are constantly put in place for the benefit of the scheme. The second part is, after all, about what the SF also mentions, that is to say we hear about cases which, as the scheme currently stands, seem to have become very expensive. And we also want that part to be focused on in relation to the ongoing evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131258	Well, what's going on here is that we have to evaluate it in the autumn. We do not have a framework of this kind. It is, of course, an agreement that was made in 2016 between, as far as I remember, the bourgeois parties, the Social Democracy and the Radicals. And it was laid down that the legislation should be evaluated. Then it can be said that it has been pushed since then because there have been some problems, so the timetable has been fluent; but I think we should find a good way of doing that evaluation. I also imagine it would be easy to follow up this piece of legislation on a regular basis with those parties that might find it interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131337	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131338	Well, we certainly think it is, because we think it is important that we get as much in from our hinterlands as possible. After all, we all have a local and regional hinterland, which we get knowledge from the
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131356-2	I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131402	Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131403	Thank you, Minister. As the Minister mentioned, there is something about BR 18 that is not working entirely optimally, and a consultation process is now under way. Can the Minister clarify how long this consultation process is expected to take and what does the Minister intend to do? Does he see a need to revise some of the rules if necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131426	The procedure is that we have proposed a number of amendments to this regulation with, you might say, two main focus points. One is that there are several construction works which must be exempted from the requirement of certification, which I also mentioned in my speech. The second is that we need to do more to provide all the certified advisers on statics and on fire that is missing. And there it is especially on static systems that are lacking advisors. What we are proposing is that you divide it up so that you can only be approved for balconies, for then you can be approved for only balconies without having to be approved for the whole static area and in this way we try to do so. It is now in consultation I do not remember whether it is for 4 or 8 weeks and then it should enter into force on 1 July because we have a system where professional regulation can only enter into force on 1 January and 1 July, so that we do not constantly change business conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131521	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131523	Thank you. Does the Minister estimate that the municipalities are well dressed to carry out BR 18?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131537	Yes, I would say that the municipalities in general are, but unfortunately we are also in a situation where there are some municipalities which have very long processing times in the construction sector. Last year we saw that, especially on the major construction cases, there was an increase in the construction time in general; on average it increased by 8 days from 64 days to 72 days for construction cases. But for the small building cases it is unchanged. It is clear that there are some municipalities and now the municipality of Gribskov is one of those that has been mentioned, because there are also many summer homes that are behind and that have problems. Some of this may, of course, also be due to the need to get used to this new legislation that has come.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131612	Thank you to the Minister and there will be no further brief comments to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur can begin. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Tanja Larsson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131627	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the SF proposes to revise the BR18 and the related certification scheme so that smaller construction sites are not subject to the same requirements as larger construction sites when assessing the safety aspects of the construction process. In the Social Democratic Party we can learn that the construction industry has generally welcomed the certification scheme that was introduced back in 2018. At the same time, however, we have also learned that there have been certain elements of the certification scheme that have been inappropriate and cost more small construction costs. Examples of this can be found in the observations made in the motion for a resolution. The cause of these problems is due, among other things, to: an imbalance in the number of certified advisors and the demand for safety assessments. The certification scheme should not, of course, be an unnecessarily costly element for small buildings. That is why the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing recently announced that there are reliefs on the way. Among other things, it has to be done. ensure that the supply of certification advisors matches demand and that no unnecessarily high requirements are made for safety assessments of construction sites. The Social Democrats do not support the proposal because work has already begun to relax the system, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left and say that the Radical Left cannot support the SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and this is Mrs Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426131823	Thank you. The ambition of BR18, when the agreement was concluded, was a faster, cheaper and more transparent construction process. The challenges of moving it from the municipalities to the certified consultants have been many. We are not yet where we can say that we have faster, cheaper or more transparent construction treatment. On the one hand, the training of certified fire counsellors and builders has gone too slowly, and on the other hand there has been a lack of adequate guidance from the Danish Building Agency, including guidance on which buildings are covered and which are not. The preparations for the new system have, frankly, not been good enough. That's why the Left has been pushing. We have had discussions with the Minister, we have had consultations, and we will continue to press until the construction and citizens have the prospect: faster, cheaper and more transparent construction procedures. We have been in constant dialogue with the Minister, and it is positive to note that the Ministry and the Housing and Planning Board are in the process, although we would like to see speed come up somewhat, because it is unnecessarily hasty and expensive out in reality. Now the SF has tabled a motion for a resolution, which I think is based partly on SF's opposition to the private sector and partly on previous reports from the National Association of Municipalities. But as I hear KL, KL has moved. KL does not want the tasks back, and certainly not without economics. The reality is different from the resolution. I understand the intention, namely the desire to focus on the fact that smaller buildings are not covered by the same heavy bureaucratic requirements as larger buildings. We agree with the SF there with the addition that there should be no unnecessary demands and unnecessary bureaucracy for either too small or too large construction tasks. The rules must make sense. That's why the Left has been pushing for months. We know that in the Danish Housing and Planning Authority there is work going on with the players in the industry. In the Left we stress that the work is in progress, that it is implemented, and that solutions and improvements are found to the challenges of construction and ordinary citizens who just stand and want a remodeling stand with when searching for everything from balcony to door in load-bearing buildings in floor buildings. It is just to mention a few examples where we still see challenges and where we expect solutions to be found where the necessary work is required from advisers, but not requiring much more than what is necessary. For us, therefore, it is crucial that there is an ongoing evaluation of the scheme, and that is also what I hear the Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs talking about is put in a system, because otherwise we do not believe that it will be quick enough to improve the system. We look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132126	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132132	I would just like to quote KL's Birgit S. Hansen, chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in KL, where she says that a number of municipalities are actually hiring more case workers to get rid of the case piles, and they do, because the amount of evidence brought about by BR18 has grown out of proportion. Something therefore suggests that if we dropped the certification scheme for buildings in fire class 2 and smaller construction sites in connection with construction, then the municipalities will actually be able to save money. So I want to hear what the rapporteur's comment is on this statement by the KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132215-2	I know KL is inside that machinery space on the Building Agency. That is why I also think that once they have made a statement and I myself have been in dialogue with them that they do not want it back here it is because they see that some of the elements they think are important are also included. One of the things that is currently being consulted by the Minister is that it is being cleaned up and more clarity is being created. I would like to say that we fully agree with the SF that we need to focus even more on this. We also agree that there needs to be more momentum, because it means something that you do not have to wait too long. One last thing is the economy of this: I heard the SF's rapporteur mention this before, and it must not be unduly expensive because there is totally unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132307	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132308	Thank you. Now I know, and I myself took part in the consultation which the Left had called for in connection with this problem, that the industry out there says quite clearly that this has created so many problems for them that they believe that the best solution would be for this task to be passed on to the municipalities again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132339	Then we have heard various things, because I have simply been in contact with every player in this industry, and I have not heard anyone, except KL, who has recently said that they wanted it back. KL has also been out saying that they have at least told me that they do not want to. So, unfortunately, I do not share that experience, but I would also say that it would be a pity if we were to roll something back now that we are already starting to move in the right direction. So I think it should be more about putting more pressure on resolving the challenges that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132416	Thank you to Mrs Heidi Bank. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And would the rapporteur be kind enough to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur? The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132434	Thank you, President. Like many of my colleagues, I have received a lot of mail from smaller companies who have been very concerned about the way in which private certification is carried out, and these are some boring cases, and these are also stupid cases. So I am well aware that it does not quite work as we had hoped for, for the smaller companies. What I can then understand is that the Minister has acted on it and that we are looking at it and making sure that it is not difficult for the small companies to deal with these private certifications. But, of course, I expect us to hear back from the Minister at some point, and the Minister nods, so we will look forward to that. The second part is that the solution is to send it back to the municipalities, as it was before 2018, and it is SF's proposal that we should do so. I'm not in favour of that. I am not in favour of stopping an arrangement that has only existed for two and a half years, and privatisations are usually good. After all, everything that can be privatised should be privatised if it can be done better, because it creates the free initiative, and it creates a livelihood for people instead of being dependent on state or municipality. So we are going to reject the proposal, but of course we are aware of those unfortunate cases. I must also admit that this is not my primary competence. I don't have detailed knowledge of how it works out there, and I've been trying to get into it by reading those e-mails that we've received from worried citizens. However, I am confident that the Minister will resolve this, and I look forward to information when we get this far, and this could possibly be in connection with the committee's examination of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132652	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and it is from Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132654	Thank you. I would like to say that it is the smaller companies, the smaller ones, that are affected by this scheme. It has not created growth, it has not created more jobs. On the contrary, it has cost both employment but also created an inequality in the form that ordinary employees have simply had to drop these projects because they may be 10 or 30 times more expensive than they normally cost, since it was the municipalities that carried out this task. How can the Danish People's Party oppose this proposal? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132741	I also expect us to have a statement on that issue from the Minister, in other words what it actually meant. Then I also have some doubts about SF's business with this proposal. Is it to improve certification, or is it because you do not like the private initiative? I like the private initiative. After all, we have created more jobs in the private sector, in that they have taken it from the municipality and then put it out in the private sector, and that is good. But, of course, it has to work. So let us take the ideological battle aside, because it has to work, and I expect the Minister and the government to correct that, and then we are happy to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132822	Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132822-2	Of course, the SF is not against the private sector, and it is not because we are against the private sector that we are putting forward this resolution. But it is actually because private individuals are against this because it has created such a huge and unnecessary bureaucracy and increased the cost of the projects that we are putting forward this motion for a resolution. So it has nothing to do with an ideological struggle... nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132851	I'm glad to hear that. Then, of course, we can meet there and hopefully improve certification and, as I said for the third time, I expect the Minister to ensure that we get information and that we get a statement, also for the consequences for the firms concerned, who have met a certification that has not worked, and that is something we want to help to change and improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132918	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426132935	The Enhedslisten has positions against privatisation. We did, for example, when a former government wanted to privatise DONG, and so we did in this case too, which would deprive a municipality of a task. So we were against the bill then that changed the terms of BR18. After all, we are very positive about the fact that the procedure should work as well as possible. We are then told today that it is not an option to take the tasks back to the municipalities; it does not want KL. Perhaps it would be nice to have it so clearly laid down in a committee procedure. 'Cause it's kind of hard to figure this out. When the Minister comes and says that parts of the scheme are not working optimally and that some changes are being made, yes, one can say that it is fine to try to follow up on something, but how extensive are the changes that are on the way? Will they solve the problems adequately? It's kind of hard to listen to when you listen to the debate. So perhaps a committee procedure could also get it unveiled. Some amended rules will be introduced on 1 July 2021, and they will then have to be evaluated afterwards. Again I would say: well, it is good to try to make a system better, but it might be good to have it fleshed out so that we can get a clear picture of whether or not we are on the way to solving some major problems. In other words, how many problems are we in the process of finding solutions to? So we are in favour of things working better and we were opposed to the privatisation of a municipal task that took place. That was the short version of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133129	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133159	It is true that the demands have been tightened up with BR18, but the premise in this bill is not, in our view, entirely correct. It's not a solution to go back to the municipal. BR18 is very extensive, and the municipalities are not dressed properly yet to handle BR18 it is our assessment that the minister had another. However, there are challenges and it was therefore positive to hear that the Minister has a hearing in progress which will end before the summer. BR18 presents a number of challenges, both too large and small, and when material is sent in, it is prepared by counsellors, who are case managers, and they are not always dressed to assess the material coming in, and it provides a long processing time for all of them for some areas more than others. However, if the rules are now changed, it will probably be even more difficult for the municipalities, as they will then have to divide all construction cases into two parts, small and large, which are treated differently. At the same time, the case workers must be able to do even more. They must be able to carry out everything themselves, and at the same time they must be able to control what the counsellors do. In fact, it can provide even more bureaucracy. So we think that we should look at the rules for BR18, and that is fortunately under way. The rules must be clearer. Have they become too complicated? I guess the last one's the answer. I myself went in and tried to read on BR18 and try to get through something like this to get an overview of what it really contains, and it is very hard to work. Nor is it our view that the private advisers earn from their work, as is stated in this motion for a resolution, because the municipalities charge fees after spent time, so they will spend at least as much time on these small matters as the counsellors do. This proposal can of course also be seen as an attempt to reduce privatisation in some way, but not actually an attempt to simplify the construction process, and we think that it would be better to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133412	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133415	Thank you. In fact, I would very much like to show the rapporteur how much this is, for example. cost to get 25 balconies security cleared in 2019 • which cost 3,046 DKK. One year later, when this certification scheme was rolled out, it cost DKK 101,700. Another point: the rapporteur says that it would create unnecessary bureaucracy if we had to roll it back to the municipalities, but that is exactly the opposite, because the municipalities have the skills to deal with fire class 2. They've done that until this part was privatised. I would like to know in concrete terms what the opposition of the Conservatives is in relation to having it rolled back to the municipalities. Because it cannot be the economy, because it has actually become more expensive to privatise, nor can it be a lack of competence, because the municipalities have the necessary competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133529-2	It is true that there are some expensive examples in the motion for a resolution and you can always find holes in the cheese, that is certainly, but it also shows that it does not work optimally, i.e. BR18. That is why it is important that we look at how these rules can be simplified. So we think that, before you start rolling it all back, it hasn't been going on for as long as it's better to look at what comes back from the hearing, so give the time and hear what we get from input on how this can be better simplified and that there is transparency throughout the BR18, and that there is of course a reasonable ratio to the cost of getting it done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133612	Then there are no further brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. I would ask the rapporteur just to prepare the platform. I do not see any rapporteur for the new citizens in the Chamber, nor for the Liberal Alliance. I can then give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426133642	Thank you. In 2016, the Danish Parliament adopted a bill in which the approval of a number of construction projects was privatised. In the past, the task had been with the municipalities, which approved the construction projects through the procedure. In the SF we voted no at that time, and it has been shown that it was for good reason. Because today it has become apparent that the new certification scheme, in which private consultants have to approve construction and renovation projects, has been a major disaster in the case of small construction projects. We have seen examples of balcony projects costing DKK 70,000. to obtain approval through the new certification scheme. And I have recently been contacted by a certified fire counsellor who works in a small, consulting company, and he told me that the issue of a certificate typically costs between DKK 30,000. And, hold on, 130,000 kroner. The cost of the certified counsellor can therefore be equal or greater than the cost of the physical work. It's fucked up. In addition, the time needed by each applicant is also included. Try to imagine that you are a carpenter's master who has been given the task of making a twig in a two-family house; before you can get started, you may get 70 pages of fire documentation that you need to comply with, 20 pages of items that you need to check and document. This is an almost impossible task, and it certainly does not lead to greater security in construction. And in the end, it's the families that end up with the bill, because the company has to have their expenses paid. Here, more than a year after the full roll-out of BR18 on 1 January 2020, we have to note that the municipalities and the project advisors are experiencing that the case management has become considerably more cumbersome and does not go faster than in the past. And combined with the fact that the processing of smaller projects has become 10-30 times more expensive than in the past because of the radical difference in the hourly rate between private certified consultants and municipalities, one can rightly conclude that BR18 and the certification scheme have in no way met the expectations set out. The Minister and Ministry will then solve the problems by training more certified advisors as they believe that the lack of these advisors is the main reason why a certification costs so much money. And, of course, we are also pleased that the Minister is trying to solve the problem, and we are also very positive that there is now both a task force and a hearing and that the former is working to exempt more buildings from the certification scheme. But we see that the task force is going to make patch solutions that do not solve the real problems. One of the many disgruntled builders from whom we have been contacted told me earlier this year a small analogy which describes the problem very well. If a building is poorly designed and poorly constructed from the start, it will remain poor and defective no matter how long you repair it. You might be able to make it a little less bad, but good and well-functioning it will never be. Therefore, it is a more durable solution to tear down the building and start over instead of spending infinite resources and time making continuous patching solutions. This actually reminds me of the initiatives taken in the field of ghetto law. This is exactly the same thing we do with the certification scheme for the smaller buildings, in other words tearing up the problem with roots and starting over again. And fortunately, from the start, it's not that difficult in this case, since we had a functioning system for the smaller buildings before BR18. In this case, the municipalities granted approval through the procedure and the calculation was carried out by an ordinary design engineer, who then submitted the relevant documents to the municipality without an expensive certified statician having to check the calculations. If, then, this third stage of the authorisation process was intended to increase the level of security, the scheme could be defended, of course. However, this is not the case as the new system merely maintains the rules at the time regarding the level of safety. The purpose and purpose of BR18 was to make the construction process faster, cheaper and more transparent, as has also been the case for the large and complex construction works ^ These are not the ones we are talking about here. But the smaller buildings have been squeezed into this. So we have to take the certified statician and fire counselor out of the equation and instead let the municipality check the technical conditions. It's the only right thing to do if we're going to solve these problems in a sustainable way. In addition, until 1 January 2021, the municipalities have also approved buildings in fire class 2. So the municipalities can do the job for the smaller buildings in a safe and efficient way. Sometimes we politicians have to stick a finger in the ground and feel reality, and it is in this case that our policy has not lived up to expectations. I do not think you should be too fine to admit that you have failed. With this motion for a resolution, we will require the government to make the necessary legislative changes so that smaller constructions are again dealt with in local authorities. It is essential that the requirement for documentation is proportionate to the construction task, and in this respect, construction in fire class 2 should again be able to be dealt with by the municipalities. There is not the necessary support for the resolution and I hope that in some way in our committee work we can find a solution that will benefit these smaller companies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134309	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Heidi Bank, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134314	Thank you for that and thank you for the speech from the proposer. I think that a little bit of beauty is being drawn about what reality was like once. After all, it is drawn as if everything was just running in the municipalities, that there were no waiting times, and that everything was just cheap and without problems. That is not necessarily what has been the reality everywhere. There have just been problems with the fact that there were no similar procedures in different municipalities, and that is one of the things that was wanted to be dealt with by this scheme. But if the rapporteur is saying a little bit freshly that you can just send it all back to the municipalities and then it all runs again if it is the small constructions, then I simply think it is wrong. For many of the employees who sit in the municipalities have moved into the private sector. So wouldn't you just end up in the same situation as the one you've been sitting in, where you've been missing certified? That's one of them. That's why you've had so much trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134416	That's right. That's also why things didn't always go so well in the municipalities. That's exactly why this scheme tried to make it more efficient and cheaper and better. But reality is just another today. I think I could also hear that from the Left rapporteur's party colleague, who called for a conciliation where she has just problematized it here. So I simply cannot understand why, on the one hand, we are debating this system and saying that we should try to look beyond these political differences and that we are now dealing with a problem that we have to solve, while at the same time not voting in favour of a resolution which is precisely aimed at solving this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134510	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134511	It's just that we're going to solve it. That is why we have been pushing, and we have been doing so for months with the Minister, where we have both asked for meetings, and we have had discussions on how to ensure that you get more kicks from the industry. We've had consultations where we've focused on this. What I'm just saying so peacefully is that the solution that SF comes up with doesn't have any time in real life, because with the employees who sit out there, it will mean that we have exactly the same problem as we do now that you need enough people to handle these tasks. That is why my call is to try to put so much energy into creating the momentum of the system we have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134553	I don't know if we're talking to the same people. But what I just want to say is that, for example, I... spoke to a construction designer in Aalborg who said that, for example, in January, the municipality of Aalborg announced that employees with the necessary technical skills would mainly still have to work in the department and that it would be possible to make a rollback. So the problem which the Left is trying to raise here simply does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134631	Thank you to Mrs Halime Oguz. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and thank you for preparing the platform for the next case. No one else has asked to speak on this matter and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134651	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426134734	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling these motions for resolutions. One is based on requiring the government before the end of this parliamentary assembly to adopt a national goal that by 2030 no schools, day courses or upper secondary educations have more than 30%. bilingual pupils, and to discuss the objective with the Danish Parliament's parties. In B189 it is a question of the Danish People's Party making a proposal requiring the government to introduce before the end of this Assembly a guarantee that there is no more than 30%. with a foreign background in the country's high schools. First of all, I would just like to say that I am always pleased when other parties are inspired by the policy of social democracy. You guys have to keep doing that. I would say that, in this area, I hope, in fact, that we can agree with each other before the summer recess. The hope is, of course, bright green; one can never anticipate a course of negotiations, but it is therefore my hope that we will reach an agreement. However, in this case, the proposers have read the Social Democratic aliens' initiative from 2018: Justice and Realism: an alien policy that brings together Denmark. Having said that, because that is what it is based on, the government cannot support the proposals. It is not, in fact, because we disagree with ourselves in the Social Democratic Party, disagree with our own policy. On the contrary, we mean exactly the same as in 2018. In the government, we believe unchanged that the composition of children and pupils in day-to-day provision, schools and upper secondary education should reflect the population composition, and this has very high priority on the part of the government. The government emphasizes that children and young people meet each other across communities, across ethnicity, across culture, across religion and across attitudes. It strengthens the cohesion of society, and it works against the formation of parallel societies. If our children and young people only meet other children and young people who look like themselves, it doesn't take so much for others to feel completely alien to them and the conversation becomes more difficult and without understanding that others can behave differently or think otherwise than what they do themselves, and we still have to avoid the polarisation that happens on the basis of it. That polarization is destructive. It is absolutely essential for the Social Democrats to see our entire institutional landscape, school landscape, further education landscape as something that is really going on at least two legs. One is that you have to learn some professional knowledge, and the other leg is that you have to get to know each other. The two parts are equally important in the way we go to the education system. It is clear that when educational institutions break over, understood in the sense that there is a very large ethnic battle side, one cannot necessarily lift one part of that equation. I have been asked about this very often about whether it is not fantastic that there are some schools with very unequal ethnic composition, which get very high averages in character, and it should then be a witness to the truth that this is indeed a good way to run a school. To that I would just say that it is of course fine; it is better than they get bad grades in mathematics and Danish, and what else they get grades in. But that does not change the fact that the part of the educational task which is about forming whole people and making children whole citizens with all that is involved cannot, of course, be promised if it is the case that one has a very different ethnic composition. I believe that this is a great disadvantage both for the children who go there, but it is also for our society and for our cohesion as a whole. So it is problematic when school pupils have only classmates with the same parent background as themselves. This means that the students do not develop an understanding of the differences that exist, and one can say that if they are even a place where they are only children with an immigrant background, it will simply be difficult to get to know the Danish society at all, because they do not associate with very many who are old-fashioned dancers, so to speak. Student distribution is a very complex area, I would say in return. We've delved a lot into it and spent a lot of time on it, and that's a lot more than just drawing some lines on a map. There are different ways to go. There has been an expert assessment of the various paths that can be taken, among other things. The high school area. A cluster model is set up and a district model is set up as two of the options they point to. I would say that both of the two models both contain some positive elements, but they also contain some drawbacks. We in the government believe that we must have an agreement in this area as soon as possible. We hope, of course, that the parties of the Folketing are prepared to do so. In this context, I would like to say that I think there is one more task to be done. We have the slightly divided picture that in the high school sector we have some problems relating to the larger cities, and then we have some problems relating to the more sparsely populated parts of Denmark. It is simply a question of the population of pupils falling towards 2030, which means that there is a quite worrying prospect for a range of the smaller secondary schools in Denmark over the coming years. We suggest from the government that you look at the various issues and, moreover, do it differently, because these are quite different issues that you face. A small local community faces the risk of losing its high school, which will mean a great deal to a local area; it gives itself. It is, of course, the youth education institution which forms the very seeds of the youth culture that is in the area, and that means that losing one's high school in a local area is quite serious. So this is the second issue that we, too, on the part of the government, have a desire to discuss with the parties on this side of the summer holiday. But for me and for the Social Democratic Party, the very thing about the composition of pupils is, of course, one of the most important structural changes we have to make from the education system, from the level of day-care to the level of primary schools to the level of upper secondary education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135357	Thank you. There are brief comments, and first it is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135401	I would like to thank the Minister for a very concrete statement on the errand of the resolution, which is to highlight it here. We look forward, of course, to seeing what the government and the Minister are presenting, and we also hope, of course, that we can find some way to deal with this growing problem. After all, it is not a secret that the Danish People's Party has read the Social Democrats' foreign appearances before the elections, and I have also read it with great pleasure. It was very well written, it gave hope for Denmark. After the elections, however, we thought that things were going a little slowly, and that is why we have taken all the things into play and put them into some motions for resolutions in order simply to push the government a little. So my question is: is it not right that the electorate should expect what is presented as a party before elections to be carried out after elections? Isn't that fair to expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135509-2	I could then just say yes and then it was the questioner's turn again. It is by nature. I think, on the other hand, if we take a reasonable view, that most of us, in addition, both upper secondary schools, vocational schools and primary schools, both on the student side and on the teacher side and the management side right now, think that the most reasonable thing is for us to have a generation of young people as dry-shoeed through the coronatide as possible. And just as far as the distribution of pupils is concerned, it really would have been my hope that this agreement had already arrived before the summer holiday last. That is to say, it was my plan and the government's plan that we should land it before the summer holiday last year. That also means that we are enormously far in preparing for it. What was then intended as the order of it was that we started with youth education and then moved on to a discussion of the primary schools and then finally the day institutions, and that is because a parallel social agreement has been drawn up with the previous government. So it was really the order, and that's why this should have landed before the summer holidays last year, and that's why we're really just waiting for the corona to release its roof. However, I think that such a reasonable view should at least bear in mind that most people would regard it as very unfair if the Minister of Education did not spend his time at this time getting the youth generation dry-shoeed through corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135626	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135627	That is actually a fair and nuanced answer, and I also take note of it and acknowledge that the government in this area has, after all, acted on its proposal. In a large number of other areas it is still lagging away and perhaps the Minister could talk to his colleagues so that we could put into practice what is in the Social Democrats' immigration initiative, how much is very good. We have had some things in the Chamber in the past; they have been voted against. So to be an example to follow is really just what I am asking the Minister and the government to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135704	Well, thank you for that, and also thank you for the rose. I hope we can find each other in an agreement on this extremely important point before we reach the summer break. I would say that, in fact, on this point, it is a question of whether we had come quite a long way before the corona hit, and that is to say that there are also other points in my own area where we had not come so far when the corona hit, and that is why we are somewhere else with those points in relation to how far we should have gone. But this is really heart blood to me, and it is for the government. We also knew from the start that this is actually one of the hardest tasks to solve at all. Previous governments have tried, and the thumb has been turned down time after time because it could not live up to international commitments. That is why we knew from the outset that if we did not get started in really good time, it could simply end up with the time in itself that made it impossible for us to land a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135755	I do not see anyone else asking for a brief comment, so we thank the Minister. We shall then proceed with the rapporteur's line, and that is first, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426135817	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate about a concrete discussion about whether there is a limit to the number of pupils with a particular background, but in fact more generally how we ensure that our educational institutions, our day institutions, our welfare institutions reflect the society we are part of. I think this is an extremely important point, an extremely important one. One of the two motions for resolutions we are discussing here is, of course, about saying in general terms that we have an objective of mixed composition in our welfare institutions, one might call it, and then there is one that specifically deals with secondary schools. It should not be a secret, and the Minister has just explained this, as many Socialists have said, and it is also in the proposal referred to in the motion for a resolution that we want a mixed composition of pupils and that we want a mixed composition in our day institutions. This is because, as the Minister also said, when you run school, you have to have more things. Of course, you have to teach our children and young people some basic skills, Danish and mathematics, but you also have to learn how to live in the society you are part of, and the society you come out to afterwards, the society in which the labour market is to function. Therefore, it is of course important to meet each other across social backgrounds, cultural backgrounds and ethnic backgrounds, because you then experience that the world looks different from some of the peers' field of view, and it is also true that you are often too young before primary school to form those ties across. When you finish primary school, we go to several different places, and that is why I really believe that primary school or primary school is a really important place to insist on this, but in concrete terms we have gone further with the discussion in the field of high school. So for the Danish People's Party, we just need to give support to the intention and what one might call a insistence on a mixed composition at our educational institutions. That is the starting point that the Social Democratic Party fully shares, and that is also the reason why we would like to have a broad political agreement in the field of high school. We would also like subsequent countries to have political agreements to ensure mixed pupil composition elsewhere in our society. We have made agreements in the past, for example. vulnerable residential areas, on institutions and on ensuring a more balanced composition of children. So full support for it. But not support for the motion for a resolution, since it requires us to do something before the end of the parliamentary year, and we are not sure that we will reach the goal of a legal treatment of, for example, the rules for a more mixed composition of youth education, but hopefully we will reach the goal of an agreement that is our ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140119	I do not see anyone wishing to make brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Jens Joel. Then we'll ask, sir. Mads Birded about getting ready. Sir. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140145	Thank you for the floor. We now co-operate with B 188 and B 189, both of which address issues raised in the Social Democratic Aliens' initiative of Justice and Realism. Here, then, it is a matter of guaranteeing that there is no more than 30%. pupils with a foreign background at educational institutions, respectively secondary schools in one and the other proposal. This is an issue which we have been dealing with, particularly in my capacity as rapporteur for immigration and integration. There are a number of initiatives in the Justice and Realism section, which have not been past the Parliamentary Chamber yet, and therefore I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party has taken the initiative to remind the government of what they thought before the elections, so that we like to have a room to keep them up for it, not least after they have formed the government. We understand that, in this area, dialogue is already under way and, of course, we could not know that when these two motions for resolutions were tabled, but we think it is timely that all the corners of justice and realism have been addressed, where action seems to have been lacking, and we hope so much that the Minister said that this is one of the areas where we will soon see a result. We share the view that there is a challenge with bilingual pupils and the proportion of them, both in high schools and in other educational institutions, and wish to be involved, as far as possible, in the discussions and in the broad agreement that might be about it. So in these words I welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution and I look forward to further discussions on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140343	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140346	It's nice with impatience, especially in view of the fact that the Left and the Danish People's Party held power for 4 years, when we had regular consultations and tried to convince the then government that we should do this. I do not think I am saying too much if I say that it was the then Minister of Education, Mrs Merete Riisager, who prevented this from happening. But the impatience may sound a little hollow when you actually had 4 years to do it. But peace be with it. I am actually most interested in knowing what the Left's attitude is to a ceiling on how many bilingual there must be at a primary school. Now I have been rapporteur for education for five years, and it has changed a little month by month, depending on who spoke. So does the Left have a position on that today? That is also one of the points on which the proposal is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140437	In fact, we have always wanted to see whether there is a model so that this can be done, which actually also respects the obligations we have and the constitution. We'd like to see such a model and take cutlery of it from there. This is very difficult. The Minister mentioned this point about getting started early because you are experiencing the same thing that I know the questioner is also aware that this is a rather difficult subject to deal with. It's not such a low-hanging fruit you just pick. It is easier to say that than to turn it into a policy that is actually translated into law and circular. It was hard earlier, and it's still gone. I thought I was trying to express that when I was up here. There's a lot from Justice and Reality we've been waiting for, but this is probably some of what we understand has taken a long time. We're happy to be part of the conversations in which you try to solve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140532	Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140533	I agree with that. I am absolutely convinced that something can be done and something must be done to respect human rights and to do so in a proper way and with respect for people's background. However, setting up an objective or ensuring the distribution of pupils also in the primary school area is just crucial, so the students meet across. But there is also, if not a complete clash with the idea of a free choice of school so almost, because one cannot make a distribution of pupils without somehow influencing the free choice of school. So what is it that weighs most heavily on the Left? Is this the free choice of school, or is it the consideration of children meeting across?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140612	I think sir... Jacob Mark very precisely hits our most distant point. We have some institutions that have been laid down by bilingual pupils, so that the idea of the benefit of free school choice is actually undermined from within. How do you create a model that preserves the best of our original intentions, namely that of course parents choose where children should go to school and at the same time ensure that we do not have institutions that actually support the parallel society structure in Denmark that we want to combat?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140648	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. That's why it's now, sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426140709	Now, on behalf of the SF, I have been working for almost 6 years for a greater, more progressive and fairer distribution of pupils and economics in our education programmes in Denmark. And there are three things in particular on which reform and action are needed. The first is that we must ensure that all young people meet across one another, for example. across economic background. It must be the case that the doctor's daughter meets the unskilled's son, in other words, a little popular. The thing about meeting across some economic conditions and living conditions is just important for the understanding of each other. You also have to meet across cultures and across ancestry, so that the son of a Muslim meets the daughter of a Jew or a Christian. There we can just see in our education system, in our schools and indeed in our day offer that it is increasingly the case that our young people and our children crawl together on the basis of cultures and classes in society, and we think it is absolutely crucial for our lovely Danish society that people meet across. We tried many times during the last parliamentary term to convince the Minister that there should be a greater distribution of pupils and that this should be done in a way that still takes into account where the young people themselves want to go and ensures that people meet across the board to a greater extent. So maybe I should just say that there are some who, as a counter-argument to that, are not you doing away with the free choice? I'd just like to challenge that expression of free choice a little bit. Because is there really a free choice when it is in Denmark that the resourceful, that is, those who have parents who can drive them, or those who have the economy or the resources to drive long, can choose a few educational institutions far from where they live and where they, i.e. those who have the best, and those who are the most resourceful, then clump together, while those who are then left in schools, i.e. those who are not able or able to move, are exposed? It is then a free choice for those who have the resources, but an unfree choice for those who remain. So what's the most free thing? Is it when there is a larger student distribution than what we have today? I believe that the most free is where a more progressive distribution of pupils is achieved than today. Then there is the second part, which is just as much a problem in my optics, namely that some of our educational institutions, located in rural areas, are even experiencing a drop in pupils in the province and will do so for a long time to come. We believe that it is absolutely crucial for our lovely Danish society that there are educational institutions throughout Denmark, also because we know that some of the young people who have the most difficulty are also those who are least likely to move forward. And for them, it will have the consequence that it is not certain that they will receive an education if there is no education in the whole country. It would kill our rural areas if there were no education. Today we have a taximeter system and a student distribution which does not take account of those courses, at least not enough. We need to change that. The third part is also about the meter, i.e. that we have a meter that rewards completion and speed. It is almost such a sausage factory where you say that the more you can get through, and the much more you can push them, the better it is, and the more you are rewarded financially. But it's not about quality. It's not about formation. It's just about getting as many through as possible, and we need to change that. In fact, we made a broad settlement on this in relation to higher education during the last period under a Left Minister. That was really good. We also want to do this now with a larger basic grant, perhaps even with a class taximeter, or at least we want to do so in a way that we keep our hands on some of the high schools where you don't have as many students and where you can't just drive people through. And then we have to do it in a way that does not reward completion, but rewards good education. I think that may also have the positive side effect of not keeping pupils who really do not benefit from the education in question, but getting them passed on. In other words, I can point out to many young people who may have been retained on a training course, knowing that they might have 2.5 on average and perhaps they would have had better access to vocational training, but then they are maintained because you can see that they can do just that, and then there is the economy in maintaining them. It is not a healthy structure, either for our education or for our young people, who might benefit from moving on to another place. With all this, I'm very confident, because these things we're about to start working with the Minister for Children and Education. I am very confident that we can solve it, and I hope we can do it broadly in the Folketing. And although it is nice to be allowed to repeat the views of the speaker here on the occasion of this motion for a resolution, we will not be voting in favour of the resolution, because the most important thing for us is the negotiation process that is now about to start with the Minister for Children and Education, and there we will fight for the things I have mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141240	There is a brief comment on Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141242	Thank you to the rapporteur, who was very much involved. This is about these approx. 10% of our high schools, which have some challenges due to poor integration. The rapporteur spoke almost about the whole question of the distribution of pupils and about things that are perhaps already on the table. It is not the case today that you can just take your car and drive far away there is a distance criterion within stx. I would like to hear a little bit about the facts on which this is based by the rapporteur. If you just take Gentofte Municipality, then over 40% live. in apartments, and they can go to the same high school as those who live in the villas. I myself have attended high school in North Zealand, and there it is totally mixed as soon as you get outside the cities. There's the farmer's son, there's the blacksmith's daughter, and then there's the children of academics... it's all mixed up. It is not the case that this is not happening today. Is it not also a question that we should not all go the same way, that everyone wants to go to high school, but that some might rather go on vocational training instead? Shouldn't we spread it out more?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141347	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141347-2	I used the opportunity here to mention all my visions for a student distribution reform and a taximeter reform, with the reform also having to address the challenge that the Danish People's Party is also putting its finger on here, namely that we have more and more high schools actively asking politicians for help because they are experiencing a very large increase in the proportion of bilingual pupils, and we can see from the research that I think VIVE is behind the fact that when there are more and more bilingual pupils, they choose those who are not bilingual, the high schools from and are looking elsewhere. I think that is an unhealthy movement, and there is, as I understand it, a lot of research. I think that the forthcoming negotiations will also show that it is closely linked to economic and socio-economic backgrounds. So making sure that you meet more across will be part of our goal of such a form of pupil distribution. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that it is not everywhere that is a problem, but they will not be affected by such a reform either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141448	Katarina Ammitzbøll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141449	I think they will, if you want to make a complete socio-economic redistribution. We have some areas where there is a high concentration of people with other ethnic backgrounds, but it is not only at a low level socio-economic, and it is also at a much higher level. If you, for example, in High Taastrup goes for the 30%. at the lowest level, you won't solve it at all. There's a much greater concentration. Why will the rapporteur not look at zooming into the areas where the challenges of poor integration are present and where this is a challenge in terms of professional level? The authors of this proposal would also like to raise the level of professionalism. That is really what this is all about - it is professionalism and education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141535	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141536	For me, this is primarily about integration and meeting across, and what we can see today is that with the current distribution of pupils there are more and more secondary schools where there are more and more bilingual schools, and then there are a few colleges where there is the exact opposite situation and where there is virtually no bilingual one. There is a clear distribution here, and these are a few areas where this is happening, and that is why I say that in the few areas you have to make a solution for them, but for Denmark as a whole I do not think it will have any particular impact, but there are some other challenges in rural areas that you have to look at. And then, of course, there must be high professionalism, but that is a completely different talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141616	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141617	I would just like to hear from the rapporteur what evidence the rapporteur bases it on the fact that it will provide a better integration to benefit from coercion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141627-2	For me, it's snuffy when you meet across. You can't know anything about a culture you don't meet, you can't know anything about a class you haven't come across, you can't know anything about people you haven't said hello to and had a dialogue with. So for me, it's completely smart when we have educations, primary schools and daycare institutions where our children and our young people • if you ask me • also spend too many hours of their lives, such an essential part of their lives that you also meet across. That is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141703	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141704	I did not ask about the rapporteur's gut. I asked if the rapporteur had any real evidence to show that this would have a beneficial effect on yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141714	Yeah, there's the evidence on there. I don't remember what the report is called, but I'll be happy to send it to you, among other things. from the primary school area, that professionalism, and especially the language where you have many bilingual pupils, is dwindling.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141729	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426141810	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on mixed schools and education. The Danes can be found in many models... is one of my favorite songs in the Højskole songbook. Because we live together across, we trade in together in the local Bruges, and we go to the local football club together, so of course we also educate ourselves across social divisions and cultural backgrounds. I was a youth coach at the local football club, Humlebæk Boldklub, for 7 years, and it was quite clear that it had a great value that the boys came from different parts of the city, some came from Strandvejen and others from the more social residential areas. They got to know each other in a community where social divisions did not matter. We hung out after training, and we were together on many foldball trips, because in football you can perform, score goals and set a good pass even if you have difficulty reading Søren and Mette or remember the tables in mathematics. Like on the football field, it also has a value that we are together at school. Because it is in the community of schools and education that we learn to live together in our common democracy. Many schools expand our horizons that the Danes are found in many models. Therefore, neither schools nor education should be places where you only meet them as you look like. We must take action, but we must do so with the nuances in order to strengthen the community and without branding any children or young people as wrong. The Danish People's Party's proposal here is very rigid and may even mean that some people are not allowed to take an education. I do not think that is necessarily a wise approach. We must respect the diversity that exists across municipalities. The composition of the population is different, and geography is different, and the challenge can therefore be different across the country, and the way to solve the challenge can therefore also be different. That is why it cannot necessarily be made a central simplistic percentage alone, as the proposal here is just setting out, and that is why we will not be supporting the motion for a resolution. However, I note that the Minister has also made it clear that a solution and clarification are being worked out and, of course, the work of the Radical Left will contribute constructively to this task so that we can shoot the ball together. For the Danes there are many models, and so are our schools and educations, and we only become stronger and more skilled by meeting not only those we look like, but being together in the way our society reflects.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142131	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142133	Thank you. Is the rapporteur aware that the proposal is actually inspired by the social democrats' immigration initiative from before 2019 and, as such, not really the proposal of the Danish People's Party? However, we have put it forward in the Parliamentary Chamber because the Socialists have failed, in a large number of areas, to lift it into the Parliamentary Chamber, as they had promised before the elections. Does this change the rapporteur's criticism of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142205	I assume that the fact that the Danish People's Party has tabled this resolution is, of course, because it is the policy of the Danish People's Party. In addition, I note that in his introduction the Minister has said that there is a preparatory work going on on this issue of mixed schools and education, and we are of course constructively involved in the work so that we can kick it together in terms of objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142230	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142231	Well, it seems that the rapporteur has not read the motion for a resolution. We write, among other things, that it seems that the government needs a loving push in the right direction, and we then quote from the Social Democrats' immigration initiative. So it is to help the government on the way that we have put all these motions for resolutions in the Chamber, and I understand that Radical Vestas criticises the proposal from what you think is the Danish People's Party, but which actually comes from the Social Democratic Party. So my question is really just: does it change the criticism from the Radical Left to the Socialists' proposal on the 30%??
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142307	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142308	I can reassure the honourable Member that I have, of course, read the motion for a resolution, just as I have read all the other motions for resolutions tabled by the Danish People's Party recently, and also put forward next week, which include, among other things, the following. refers to the proposal that the questioner refers to. I can only say that I hear the Minister saying that there is a preparatory work going on here, and it is clear that the Radical Left is of course constructively involved. Today we are discussing the proposals of the Danish People's Party, and the Radical Left will not vote in favour of this, but we believe that mixed schools and education are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142345	There are no further brief comments, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142420	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we think it is good that we in this country have designed our daily services and schools and upper secondary education on the basis that our children spend everyday life with children, as far as possible, whose parents' educational backgrounds, occupations, social origins, ethnic origins are different. It is good that our children meet children and young people with a different background from their own. I think it provides insight if you do not think you have it in advance, in standards and values in others, and I think it helps to create understanding and what is important, not least when we discuss these things, tolerance towards others. In the Enhedslisten we would therefore like to see both day-to-day offers, schools and educational institutions for our young people reflect the composition of the population. We must recognise that there is a serious problem when we look at, among other things. the study carried out by the Workers' Employment Council some years ago, which showed that there had been a very strong shift in the distribution of pupils in schools. Where in the past there had been a fairly balanced distribution of pupils from all income groups of around 40%, that percentage had fallen to 28%. over a 10-year period. So there has been a move in a direction away from a diverse composition of pupils. We have to recognise that there can be many reasons why parents choose their child to go to school in a town other than where they live, just as I think we should be careful to turn ourselves into judges of young people's choice of high school, although we think that this may have unintended consequences. However, it does not change the view of the Enhedslisten that it is regrettable if it draws social and also ethnic fragmentation with it, and that causes diversity to shrink. I would also like to say that, when we come to these discussions, we think that the lack of diversity is regrettable, but that we must also know what colleagues in the House think it is regrettable that legislation has been adopted which introduces special rules for children and young people and their parents, which are regulated on the basis of their place of residence, which are special rules based on the fact that they live in a vulnerable residential area. We think that's a bad thing. We do not think it is acceptable to regulate day-to-day services, schools or other educational institutions from that point of view. We need to resolve the lack of diversity, but we need to find solutions that are based on equality before the law and provide for dialogue and cooperation to find good solutions. I think it is possible, across the very different positions, to reach a broad consensus on how we go in and resolve the lack of diversity without resorting to discriminatory special rules. I think that the discussion that has so far been about the distribution of pupils in high schools, which several rapporteurs have also touched on, suggests that it is not certain that this is the case, but it suggests that we can actually find solutions that guarantee diversity very widely. As far as we are concerned, we have pointed out throughout the debate for a number of years now that we thought it would be sensible to introduce secondary school districts, so that the composition of residents in a given area was also reflected in the composition of pupils, but we are also open to discussing other solutions to this problem. What is just central to us is that a student distribution will not be able to find its basis on the basis of the ethnicity of the students. We need to find other solutions. So we look forward to starting negotiations in this area. The first thing we will encounter is undoubtedly the debate on the distribution of pupils in high schools, and then it may be that other initiatives can follow in the tail. We are entering into those negotiations in the hope that we can resolve it. It is not because we think that there should be ethnic quotas that we are opposed to, but because we think it is important that we find a solution to how we create greater diversity. So we look forward to that and we hope that we can resolve it in a broad political agreement. On the other hand, we cannot support the proposal from the Danish People's Party, which takes its full starting point in the students' ethnicity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142937	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426142957	Thank you. The challenges of poor integration of approx. 10% of our high schools we have discussed several times. We have a challenge with self-segregation; it is certain. In Conservatives, like many other parties, we are also defending a firm and strict immigration policy. We do that in terms of citizenship, asylum influx and integration here in Denmark, and that also applies to our education area, where we also have to make requirements for integration. Of course, we support the fact that integration must also take place in our high schools and that it is also important that we maintain the high focus on high professionalism and an education system in balance across the country. We note here that the proposal from the Danish People's Party is that the Social Democratic Party must implement their proposals from the Justice and Realism Policy which brings together Denmark, which the government has not yet implemented. It is to be expected that a government will implement the plans it has put forward. But we also assume that the Danish People's Party is well aware that one cannot distribute on the basis of ethnicity. That is why we Conservatives have already proposed and have been out of three measures to deal with the so-called ghetto schools. We believe that there should be stricter supervision of colleges that have integration challenges. These are high schools, for example. 30% pupils from socially exposed residential areas and/or a strong flight of resourceful pupils. They must automatically be placed under enhanced supervision by the authorities. We also believe that colleges with integration challenges should have better tools to deal with the problems and hold management responsible. We've seen that in several high schools, among other things. The South Coast Gymnasium, where management has gone out actively and has dealt with the problems themselves, among others. by dividing the lunch table and making regular seats. It has also been pointed out quite strongly that so-called ghetto languages should not be spoken, but that one should speak Danish etc. In high school. There is a great deal that can be done locally, so we support the possibility of having more local authority. We must also be able to close high schools which simply cannot solve their own challenges and distribute the pupils, and they are then secondary schools which have repeatedly not been a priority and where the problems cannot be solved with the initiatives that are there. It must also be done in such a way as to be able to expel and help students who prove not to be professionally prepared to carry out a stunt, but to cause trouble and other things and make noise without being penalised financially. We can do this by also strengthening the basic subsidy. It is our approach that we need to strengthen integration in high schools. So, in addition to the three points, we also propose raising the requirements for entering high school. We believe that this can also solve some of the problems with those pupils who have the most difficulty adapting to the culture of our high schools, but at the same time we are not punishing those who really can. Fortunately, we also see many examples of this, i.e. that there are bilinguals who are also going to become members of parliament; I am proud of our colleagues. But we will be somewhat concerned when we hear from several rapporteurs, here from SF and S, that they will go far beyond this and will mix across socio-economic and geography. You want to abolish the free choice, but in fact you could do something else: you could relax the free choice by abolishing the distance criterion or at least simply moving it. That's about it. It's a little different but you could actually give Fatima from Albertslund the opportunity to apply to Copenhagen, or that Dorit from Hørsholm, who would like to leave, can go to the city or anywhere else. This could be done by strengthening the free choice, because there are also many people who would like to cross over themselves. We believe that it is very important that we stick to the free choice of schools within the framework we have. In addition, we must look at the fact that this is not a zero-sum game. We must try much more to get some of our young people into our vocational training programmes. It needs a really strong overhaul, so we get to the finish line. 25% of a vintage to take an eud is not very high, and I think we are far from it yet. So we should try to see our youth education system in a whole and not try to use integration and some of the 10%. high schools, which have a challenge, to bring almost a state-controlled system of student distribution into the back door. If we look at primary school, we have succeeded in doing so in the day-care sector, in demanding to attend day-care centres, for example. mean that 90 per cent. of the children from Vollsmose now go to a private daycare institution. There are a lot of things here that you might learn from also participating in primary school. Of course, you have to go to school, but you could try to look at what you can take from there so that it can be strengthened. These are also some of the measures we are proposing in the high schools, namely to give greater authority in the educational institutions, and this could also be considered in the field of primary education. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426143509	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426143527	A 30-percent ceiling on foreigners in high school will certainly mean forced distribution. And that is sad, because there is no evidence that it should solve anything, neither to distribute immigrant boys to well-functioning colleges, nor to distribute well-functioning Danish pupils to immigrant-heavy problem gymnasiums. In fact, the evidence available points to the opposite. In the primary school, for example, it is known that immigrant pupils who are distributed in primary schools with Danish children are more miserable than if they could stay in the primary schools where they wanted to go. We also know from studies that immigrant students segregate themselves in high schools. So it is not the case that you can just stuff young people into a certain high school class and then solve the problems, on the contrary. So this is another patching-up of decades of failed immigration policy. And that is what the government and, unfortunately, most parties in the Danish Parliament want, as the Minister for Children and Education has told us about countless times in this Chamber more coercion and fewer free elections. The bill, yes, it's left in the nursery. Like everywhere else in society, there are more and not fewer problems with the number of non-western immigrants and descendants mainly from Muslim countries. A Unito report on negative social control on youth education published this summer points out among other things. that it gives social bonus points in the group to be the one exercising social control over others, and therefore gossip and social sabotage arise, which is really social control; that ethnic Danes and Muslims do not associate; students with non-Western background will not be accused of being too Danish and sticking to themselves in the canteen and holding their own social events. For the girls, social control is about virtue. Girls will often become more religious in their dress during high school years, more will wear a scarf or go from a scarf to wear Muslim dress in addition to their clothes; boys will maintain each other in Middle Eastern honorary perceptions, which are about making fast money at a young age, low crime against the Danes and be dominant. The report tells about the anxiety of teachers and principals who are afraid to talk about the problems because it will scare new students away from their high schools. And that is unacceptable. The upper secondary schools must be freed from having to service students with Middle Eastern backgrounds who, due to poor grades from primary school, should not go to high school at all. We can see that the non-Western descendants have an average of 5.5 versus 6.9 for boys of Danish origin. For girls with a non-Western and Danish background respectively, the figures are 6.3 and 7.7. Higher access requirements can limit their involvement and thereby reduce the problems of social control, and that is a good way to go. A higher average character would raise the overall level and cut off unintegrable and untrained immigrant boys from getting admission to a high school. We must remember that integration is a personal responsibility; it is not the task of the state, the municipality or the school. And the rectors and teachers who draw attention to the problem must be given much more support. It must no longer be possible to shut down the debate with accusations of racism. And with the new report in hand, politicians must at the same time drop the urban legend that high schools are an integration success. It only puts undue pressure on teachers and rectors and helps to shut down the debate. A baccalaureate is not equal to integration. It is for young people as well as for their parents their own personal responsibility to integrate into Danish society. The free choice of parents to send their children to the day nurseries and kindergartens they want is crucial to parents' safety by handing them in. I want there to be much more freedom for parents. The Danish families must have complete freedom to choose the day offer that best suits their children, and the Danish families must have complete freedom to choose school and high school so that the children get the best professional benefit. In future Danish secondary schools must be for those who have the skills and who adapt to the prevailing Danish culture in Danish secondary schools. It is not the politicians' job to determine Danish families with forced distribution of Danish children and young people. That should be common sense for all parties, not just for new citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144004	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144006	This is the point of common sense on which I would just like to challenge the rapporteur a little, because where is the rapporteur's approach best suited to achieving successful integration? Is it at High Taastrup High School, where 57 percent. of the students are bilingual, or is it in the high school in South Jutland, where it is 2%.? At which of the two colleges is there the best chance that Danish culture, Danish traditions and the Danish way of life are the most common part of everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144050-2	I am very pleased that the rapporteur is asking this question because the whole premise for the rapporteur's question is that one believes that integration is something that the Danish state, the Danish municipalities, the Danish schools have to take care of. In New Citizens we are of the clear conviction again: it is quite common sense that integration is a personal responsibility. We have seen for decades how a completely misguided immigration policy has been conducted, where immigrants have fallen in mainly from Muslim countries, which are creating these problems today, in schools and in high schools, in residential areas around Denmark. Integration is and remains a personal responsibility. This is not a state task, and we therefore believe that it should not be forcibly allocated. We must refrain from doing so, and then we must resolve the immigration policy from the bottom up. It's the only thing that's common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144132	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144132-2	Those were many words that did not answer at all what I asked. That doesn't change the fact that there are the students who are, and then you can change the character requirement. That's not gonna happen, but you could change the character requirement. It will then also affect some of the most vulnerable in ethnic Danish families and their children, I would just say. But which place do I want answers to? Is there the best prerequisite for integration where you meet across? Is that the place where there's 2%? bilingual, or the place where there are 57 per cent. bilingual?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144204-2	There is no evidence to prove that if you distribute them to these schools, as the rapporteur says, it will result in better integration. That was actually one of the things I mentioned in my speech. I have a lot of reports based, for example, on what has been done in Aarhus Municipality, which proves it. This does not improve integration, as the rapporteur says. It doesn't give you a better level of professionalism. It doesn't improve well-being. So there's no evidence. That's why I'm saying this whole obsessive idea is based on gut sensations. In New Citizens, we are basing ourselves on common sense, knowledge and experience, and that is why, of course, we say 'no' to forced distribution and 'yes' to free elections, and that we must resolve immigration policy from the bottom up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144239	There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. And after some cleaning, it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426144304	Thank you, President. I have now been many years in politics, either as a volunteer, as a part-time politician or as a full-time politician in the Folketing, and every time before an election I have been deeply impressed by how talented the Socialists have been to say exactly what the voters would like them to say, and when they have subsequently won power, they have had a little harder to do what they have said they would do. And it's both local and it's national. That's why I was very excited about what would happen after 2019. Would they follow up on the excellent alien political initiative from 2019? And there we in the Danish People's Party have just had to see that it has taken some time, and it has also been harder for them to do what they really wanted to do. And we have seen that in a large number of cases the Socialists have voted against motions for resolutions which we have taken literally from the Socialist Foreign Affairs Committee. This is just a bad way of conducting politics, and after many years in politics I am very sorry about the way in which politics is conducted. I was actually a great supporter of Anders Fogh Rasmussen's contract policy, i.e. that what you say before an election should also be implemented after an election, and this was strongly criticised, especially by the Radical Left. I myself have also tried to follow up what I have said in an election campaign, after an election, and I think that should be done, and especially in this area, the foreign policy, which is so crucial to Denmark's destiny. If we don't get this right, it won't be fun to be a Dane. Fortunately, the Socialists have changed their attitude, they have changed their course, and it is a great pleasure to follow that course. There are important, talented people in crucial positions who say all the right things and who I suppose also know something about things, what you didn't have in the past, or they wouldn't recognise it. That is why we have put all these individual points of the foreign policy debate in the Chamber, in other words to have this debate, because it is a fundamental debate. We must keep what we say in an election campaign, even when we gain power. As I said, this lags in a whole range of areas for the Socialists. It is, of course, a pleasure for me to find that on one point things are progressing, and that is exactly what the two motions for resolutions, B 188 and B 189, are dealing with. I was actually very pleased with the Minister's statement and with Mr Seligman. Jens Joel's account of what you intend to do, but if that is the right solution, I cannot, for good reason, know. I would really like to thank New Citizens for the excellent speech made by the rapporteur, and I was very much in agreement. After all, the Danish People's Party has been saying for years that we have to do something, and one thing we have proposed is district gymnasiums, the other is higher grade requirements, and the third is that we must of course have fewer in secondary schools and more in vocational schools. Because the situation today is not going to work in the long term. New citizens ask about such a distribution method with the 30%. will help, and they themselves will provide the answer, that it will not. Is there any evidence that this will help? We can try to look at other countries, what has been done there, and we can shift to the United States, which has had lots of experiments with multicultural society, with forcibly spreading and busting people around. What has happened where attempts have been made to bring different ethnic groups together? They have begun to attend the same school and the same high school, but what was discovered was that the ethnic groups were sitting together, they did not interfere with each other. So where people were not physically mixed in the past, they were not mixed in the institutions either. And we can also fear that this will happen when we hope to reach an agreement that will result in a greater dispersal. We can risk people from the Middle East sitting with people from the Middle East, the Danes with the Danes, etc. There is a real risk. The big question is: do we have other options than trying to achieve a better distribution? That is the crucial question. For many of the people who crawl together in ethnic high schools, Danish citizens, not all of them, but many of them, are going nowhere. Our great hope is that they will become Danes in the heart, in addition to being on paper, and how can they become Danes if they do not meet other Danes, because part of learning the culture is also meeting the culture, and how do you meet the culture? Well, that's what you meet through the individual human being because we're all carriers of culture. After all, it is not the Danish People's Party that has inflicted this on the Danes, it is the majority of the Danish Parliament's parties through a disastrous immigration policy, which among other things. As a result, the Danish People's Party was founded. And, of course, we are very pleased that this work has, after all, borne fruit, so that one of the major opponents today has turned on a plate and has recognised that something needs to be done. I really hope that we will arrive at a model that somehow creates hope for the future, creating hope for assimilation, which creates hope that we will all be Danes in 50 years' time, instead of having a multicultural nightmare for which the Radical Left was the banner leader in the 1980s, the 1990s and the 00s. It is not a country I want to hand in, and I believe and hope that the Socialists really mean it when they want to change the state of things. I do not believe that we will make it all the way with a forced distribution or a modified model, but at least we are creating a hope that in future we can be Danes instead of ethnic. That is actually the real reason why we have taken these things from the Socialists' foreign policy initiatives and have put them in the Chamber. In fact, it is not just teasing; it is basically a hope that one day we can once again be a united people. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145052	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145055	I'm always so happy for other parties when they get together in a big breakup like that. And now I just want to know how far the brotherhood goes. Because I was somewhat surprised when I read the motions for resolutions and saw that the Danish People's Party wants to have this 30% ceiling on daily offers, schools and education. And then I actually just want to hear: We were a number of parties that I remember the Left, Conservatives, SF, Radicals and Social Democrats who made an agreement before the election on a 30-percent ceiling in the daily offers in Denmark, where the Danish People's Party was outside. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party will join it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145140	In fact, I cannot answer that today because I am not the rapporteur for the negotiations that are going to take place. But one of the reasons why we have taken these motions for resolutions and laid them down is that they have been taken literally from the Socialists' foreign policy proposals. So simply to say to them: Now you must get started. We're still in those 30 percent. It is, of course, a little strange to stand here and put forward the policies of the Socialists. We have done this before, in the field of free school, where they had some pretty strong views. When we then put them in the Chamber, they voted 'yes' and, at other times, 'no' to their own proposals. But I think that at some point we might reach that agreement, including in youth education. I hope so. I understand that negotiations are already under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145235	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145236	I just think, also in the light of the good atmosphere, that when it is now the case that the Danish People's Party itself has proposed that there should be a 30-percent limit in the daily offers, and there is already, while the Danish People's Party is outside that agreement, I would at least like to say, on behalf of the SF, that you should be welcome in that area of agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145257	I shall pass that on to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145302	Then we would like to thank the rapporteurs. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145324	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145343	Thank you to the Left for the proposal, which certainly raises an important debate. The proposal instructs the government to set up by the end of May 2021 a working group to examine how the use of the concept of educational readiness in relation to pupils in the eighth and ninth classes can be changed so that the assessment is not replaced by an assessment of what the pupil is actually prepared for. In addition, the proposal provides for an assessment of the financial consequences by providing individual training guidance to all eighth and ninth grade pupils in primary school. The government fully supports the fact that we must stop putting a negative label on children, and that is why I am actually very pleased that the Left has put this proposal in the Chamber. It gives at least some idea that with a large breadth in the Folketing we will be able to reach an agreement on the future assessment of education and training. We have already written about it in the understanding paper, which means that there is a majority in favour of it. I have always been aware of this, that fortunately we are more of us who want to change it, but that we also get the width in terms of getting at least the left. I am very pleased about this and hope, of course, that today's debate will also show that even more blue parties will be involved. Of course, we have to motivate the students. We're not going to demotivate them. And it must be a guiding principle in our school that we see children in such a way that no one can do anything, but everyone can do something. And the way in which we have dealt specifically with language in relation to the assessment of qualifications is quite wrong in relation to that. It is also nonsense to talk about the fact that a young person is not ready for training. In other words, we have extremely good education on all shelves, all sorts of shelves, and that means that the word itself is quite simply misleading in relation to the educational situation in which all young people in Denmark find themselves. And so it doesn't make any sense to have that language around it. Of course, it should be seen whether the individual student has the necessary conditions for starting a particular youth education. It's something else entirely. But in terms of talking, in general terms, one should not be ready for training: I cannot quite see for myself in what situation one as a human being should not be ready for training at all. So it is absolutely crucial that we go in and look at the education given, and that we also help to tear down the education hierarchy that exists in our society, and focus on getting the student to see all the different educational opportunities that, fortunately, exist and listen much more to his own wishes and less to, perhaps what the outside world describes as fine or less fine. The social expectations of pupils' choice of youth education are bad for a great many young people. Young people must choose on an enlightened and realistic basis and to a lesser extent be influenced by social expectations, and I simply believe that we can do more as a society. The government shares the view that pupils in education should be better dressed for their educational choices and should be inspired more. They must be introduced balanced to the educational choices that are so that they do not just stay with the automatic pilot and we should look at what is really more appropriate in terms of guidance on educational choices. So, we have actually gained some new experience, also in connection with coronatiden, about e-guidance and also virtual guidance, where the youth education sector has made a huge effort and thank you very much for this in order to replace the bridge-building courses that could not be carried out in this context. But I would also like to say that, in relation to the whole question of what kind of training young people choose, it is not enough to look at the upv. I believe that we should also look at the composition of our primary school and whether it is really screwed up in the way it is today. We have also discussed this in the public school circle in the past, and I think it is very important that we look at the fact that there is far too little practice in primary school as it is today. This means that there is something in relation to getting acquainted with the subjects. I mean, when I went to school, for example, a metal lounge at the school! I wonder if there's a lot of students who've gotten their eyes on what you could imagine being a mechanic or a blacksmith or something else, compared to what you could do down in the metal shop room. In fact, it is first, when you start training, that you get an idea of what it is you have to do, because it simply does not exist in the Danish primary school anymore. And that is sad, and I think that is one of the things we should look at if there is also a desire here in the Left to look, perhaps to a greater extent, in a different direction than only the general high school. But, summa summarum: This is exactly how to create a working group that looks so narrowly at what the Left is up to, and I think it might be too narrow, and we want from the Social Democrats and the government to take a more fundamental discussion of the upv, so that we do not just patch up the gaps that obviously need to be dealt with. And then, as a government, we have announced that we want to abolish the 8th-class UPV. That promise is by no means forgotten, but it has been put in the Corona freezer, and hopefully at some point we will be able to thaw it again. However, the government is not opposed to the setting up of working groups at all, even on this point. But it should not be narrowed down to a question of how the upv can be changed and to a pre-established requirement for individual guidance, which I would like to question, in the light of the coronatidenes experience. On the other hand, I would like to say that we have negotiations, hopefully, in the foreseeable future, also on a new assessment and evaluation system in the primary school, and I think it would be quite appropriate for us, among other things, to do so. the negotiations will also have a look at how to move forward on the issue of the upv. So the government cannot support the proposal, but is determined to discuss the upv.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145948	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426145951	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for your kind words. In the past, at least, the Left has also helped to push on some agendas, and now I am thinking of movement in primary school. And we are glad that on this agenda we can also push a little bit to the government and the speed with which we translate the understanding paper. For as the Minister also says, it is in the understanding paper that we should look both at the UPV and at the guidance. Can the Minister get a little bit more keen on when we can get these negotiations started?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150031	In other words, it is a question which is a little like asking whether the Minister is aware of when corona will disappear again. I would simply love to be able to answer that question, because then I would be able to be incredibly specific with the date. I would say that we have had a set meeting in the sense of the term. And for all those who do not know what a set meeting is because they are not at Christiansborg but are listening to it, it is giraffe language in here for mandates to be given and for everyone to be in place and to be able to start real negotiations on the part that deals with assessing the evaluation system. In other words, compared with a great many other things where we have not made it this far, there will be a lot more time, but because there is actually a plan for it with evaluation of the evaluation system, I think it is incredibly obvious that we are taking it in this context. And that means that, given that there has been a set meeting in that area, although it was before the second wave of corona, it gives at least some idea that it is not something that lies many years in the future, but hopefully remains in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150131	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150133	But can the Minister come a little closer than the foreseeable future? After all, we made this proposal a few months ago because we expected that we could then get started in May. But everything has been pushed, and two years after the understanding paper we have not yet started. Well, I think we need to get started soon, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150155	I can at least get it so close that it won't be in May so far, so good. We still have young people away from school, which means that the Corona management in the Ministry of Education is still running away at an extremely high pace, and that means that the question of whether it can be in May is the answer a sharp no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150213	We thank the Minister also for the educational explanation at set meetings. Now, after a little cleaning, we start the rapporteur's round. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150234	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Left for the motion for a resolution to change the assessment of qualifications. It is also again for people who may not be so close to the educational sector, such a little code language, but basically it is not difficult for any person to relate to how frustrating it must be or how demotivating it must be, or in the reality how negative it must be to say to a young person: you are not ready for education. That is why, of course, I have not been able to sit in the debates that were intended, I am sure that people would be told that they were not ready. Of course, and hopefully something has been discussed about the fact that there should be some conditions of access, that there should be some things in place and that you should make an assessment. But what is our starting point for welcoming the proposals of the Left is, of course, that we must turn around and say: what is it that young people have the opportunity to do? What are they good at? What do they want to do? What are they ready for? There is also a little bit in it about whether you are judged ready, that there is such a hierarchy in upper secondary education and that, if you meet these requirements, you can choose freely; if you do not meet these requirements, you are referred to a specific group of courses. And there we would very, very much like to find ourselves in a situation where education is regarded to a much greater extent as different offers to different young people with different interests, different talents. It is clear, as the Minister also said: how can one know that one has a talent or an interest in practicality if practice has filled far too little in primary school? Then you don't know that's actually what you're into, or what you're good at. And that's why there's also a bias that says that you're gonna have to move on to stx unless there's something in the way of it. And, of course, neither for us as a society nor for the young people, who would be very happy and would benefit very much from being skilled. After all, we must encourage and speak up and encourage that. So I am delighted and fully support the idea and it is also what is in the understanding paper that was made when the government joined that we should not give young people a stamp called "not educational services," but rather focus on what you are prepared for. And it is gratifying, as I have already indicated, to see that the Left has moved on to this point since you had the power, and that in reality you will also be helping to change some of this. So it could be good for a broader agreement. If we do not support the proposal today, it is in fact because we think it is a slightly larger discussion. In particular, there is the fact that in the motion for a resolution by the Left there is no provision for abolishing it in the eighth grade; it is proposed to amend it. And it is a little less than what we have written in the paper of understanding, but it is in fact also broader than the education assessment. Against this background, we really want to send a signal that it needs to be changed. We sent that already two years ago. We are pleased if the Left will also contribute to the discussion that this should be changed. And this is, of course, about ensuring that the young people get a good offer of youth education after primary school, and that as a society we have a responsibility for that offer to the young people, but also that we help them choose it and that we help their parents qualify that choice; because it is also a relatively poor kept secret that of course the parents' perception of what is the right education or what it is that the young people should really, really do for their choices. And that is why we also need, if you will, to process, enlighten and guide the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150642	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Stén Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150643	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a fine speech which is hard to resist, I think. There were some corners of the guide, which I really would like to bore out a little bit for the rapporteur, because the rapporteur did not really mention that very much. In other words, it is now the case that it is the guidance for those who are not ready that should be concentrated primarily on. And yes, you also need to concentrate on those who are ready; they just get guidance in groups but peace now be with it. Can the rapporteur say a little bit about guidance and what it fills with the governing party, with the Socialists, in that, in addition to opening up the school more in relation to the practice, it will also in future require that most of the young people in the 8th and 9th grade, which is what the proposal says we should look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150735	This is one of the reasons why we think it is a slightly broader discussion than what it says here that it is, of course, important how to organise guidance efforts. And it is also true that it seems strange if you say: If you have high grades, we expect you to do it yourself. That is not quite the case either, because there is, of course, guidance; it is just collective. And I would not say that it is happiness for everyone to have individual guidance. I think we should both look at how we get a better hold of the students, but also, as I indicated, better hold on to the parents, and then of course we should organize the counselling effort so that it hits the young people, and we should not, if we may say so, just say: you have a stamp that says you are not ready; then we must find out what we are doing with you. In other words, it could be done more positively, and that is also what I hear in the Left's proposal, namely that we really should not say: you qualify for some help by not being ready. Because that's a weird way of dividing it up. So we would like to look more closely at the counselling efforts. That is one of the reasons why we have not done it yet, i.e. that we are still waiting for the drilling of what is appropriate, including for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150847	Sir. Stén Knuth, please? No. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426150913	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we have no problem calling things by their right name. I understand on the Left that this is the case there, namely that we do not like the assessment, but we know that there are some young people who are not ready for education, and that is why the expression does not make any sense at all, but they can be ready. And the sooner they are told that they may not be ready, the sooner you can put in, and then they can get ready during primary school. It actually helps young people, whom I think many will appreciate. I think we've become a Curling people by now. We have almost been completely frightened to have to make demands on people, including young people. I myself took the 10th grade, after my teacher and my supervisor told me that I was not ready; bookly I was, but in terms of maturity I was not, because I came a year early to school and was so bullied in the 8th and 9th grade, and I was not ready. For me, it was good to know. I pulled myself together. In the 9th grade, things went really wrong, but in the 10th grade, after I got the report that I couldn't go to high school, I pulled myself together. Now you should not stretch your own experience beyond everyone, but what I am saying is that it can be beneficial to know what things are like. The Danish People's Party is also in favour of individual guidance, and we strongly warned the then SRSF government, as in the context of the reform of the primary school they would abolish individual guidance and then replace it with a group guide except for 20%. of the students who were then given extra guidance. We can easily say yes to the setting up of a working group and also to an economic assessment. As far as I remember, we saved about 130 million. kr. to abolish individual guidance. What it would cost today, I do not know for good reasons, so that is perhaps very good. As I said, the Left kicks in an open door, and we look forward to what the Danish Parliament may decide today and to see if we should have an individual guidance again in the primary school in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151206	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151208	After all, about one third of Danish young people are labeled as not ready for training, and I can hear that the rapporteur thinks that it is meaningful for young people. But when I look beyond the educational landscape, we have upper secondary education, vocational training, secondary education, etc., we have 10th grade and post-school education, and then we have the preparatory initial training, which is for all of them, for example. We are not studying youth education, and then we also have the specially organized training which is intended to ensure that all those who will not normally be able to take an education and who will not even be able to make it on the labour market receive an education. We have all these educations. How, then, does it make sense that one third of all Danish young people should be told that they are not ready for education? Aren't they ready for any of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151302	It does make sense, in fact, because there are indeed many young people who are today admitted to high school and who are often not ready to attend high school. You can just talk to the high school teachers, and they'll confirm it. Too many people are being sent to high school because it has become the great fashion and because they are not required early in school and because many young people do not know what they want. Many of them would then have benefited more from another offer, and there makes sense to say: You know what, dear friend, you are not ready for a youth education at a high school, but we have something much better for you, and you should consider that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151347	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151348	Now the stamp is not that you are not ready for high school is that you are not ready for training. So will the rapporteur admit that the vast majority of young people who are labeled as non-educational will be able to cope either in a 10th grade, in a post-school, in preparatory education or in a specially organized education, and that it will therefore be a little strange for them, knowing that they will be able to cope in those places, to know that they are not ready for education?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151419	Well, I don't think there's anything wrong with saying that you're not ready for an education right now, but you can be. People develop differently, and some mature later, but that doesn't mean you're worth less because you're not ready right now. In other words, it is a question of helping the individual young person, and so it does not help the young person to sweep things under the carpet and have such a curling approach to things. It's too SF-like, and I don't stand for that. I stand to say things as they are, and then you have to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151456	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151514	I first became aware of the problem of the qualification assessment when I was visiting a school in Køge, and there was a boy in the eighth grade who told me that he was dreaded to return home to his father because he had been told that he was not ready for training, and he knew that it would be the greatest loss of honour for the danger that his boy was not trained. But the boy didn't want to go to a high school. It wasn't part of the plan. I actually think he just wanted to move on in the 10th grade to a start and then find out what he was going to do, but yet he should have stamped the non-educational stand with all the defeats that then follow. And as he said, it also feels a little like failing in life. Because you are judged on your personal, social and professional competences. So it is a state that has to assess when you are personally or socially competent. Another day I was in West Himmerland talking to a school manager who said that the young people feel that they are failing in life when they fail in the education assessment. Then I said, I just heard that somewhere else... it was in Køge. So we have now organized the education policy in such a way that we give one third of our young people the defeat in the backpack already in the eighth grade, where they get some sense that they fail in life because they are apparently not socially, personally or professionally prepared for education. But my claim is that all young people are ready for education. Not everyone is ready for high school; not everyone is ready for vocational training, where there are also high demands today; not everyone is ready for a 10th class or to go to post-school, which is also possible. But then it may be that they are ready for a preparatory initial training where you go to the workshops and work, or for a basic vocational training where you are both in a company and learn it professionally at the school, or for a specially organized training, which is a unique Danish education where you get support and help, even if you are e.g. has a disability that requires something very special. Yet we punk all young people on top of our heads and say that you are not ready for education. It doesn't make sense when we have so many great educational opportunities, and the goal of education policy in Denmark must surely be to let all young people get off to a good start. Instead of giving them that stamp, we fortunately, together with a majority, want all young people to have a plan, to sit down with a teacher and a tutor who wants them and who says: What are your interests, what do you want, what do you have the prerequisites for, and what are you going to work with? And then they get a plan made, so no one goes out of primary school without having a plan for his future. That is good education policy. So the training readiness assessment needs to be changed, to be invested in counselling, and I am really glad that the Left is now of the opinion. I was actually so happy when I saw that I wrote about it on my Facebook page, because when the Left moves on such a crucial area, and I think it is crucial, because you can actually see in the research that the educational readiness assessment is one of the things that push the young people most, it gives us a belief that we can change this, so it is instead about starting from what the young people can and will do. So I would like to thank the Left for that. However, we cannot support the proposal, although I think it is sympathetic that the Left has now begun to fight the struggle of the support parties and the government to achieve compliance with the understanding paper. I have every respect for that, but in reality I think it is too little ambitious with expert groups and working groups of which I myself have helped to set up part. I really think it is quite clear what is needed here, namely that we are not giving all young people the defeat in the backpack that they should feel that they are failing in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151910	I would also like to thank Mr. Jacob Mark. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426151930	Thank you. I knew a boy in the 9th grade who was declared not educated. And he called me and was deeply unhappy and felt very unfairly treated. He wanted to be an electrician, and there was nothing else that could tempt him. So I suggested to him that he go down to the euc it was in Roskilde and took his father with him. And then they could talk to them and hear what they would advise him to do. He got a test with 100 questions and he had the 98 right in half an hour. He was admitted to the euc in Roskilde, finished his electrician's education on the standardized time and quickly became independent. What was wrong with him? Yes, his father revealed to me that he never returned his ink bill, and it was on the grounds that he thought it was nonsense, when he could figure it out with a pencil, that he should also make it with ink next to it. And then he wasn't trained. There are 50,000 young people in Denmark who are not in education after primary school. It is, in fact, a defeat, even for those of us who are here, that we accept it. And this is not the first time we have discovered that there are 50,000 young people who are not doing anything after primary school. That is something that has been characteristic for some time. And I suppose it's really strange that the Danish Parliament has come up with a word called educational readiness assessment. This really reminds me of the national tests, where out of a large number of letters three words have to be found. We have done so now, and now we have agreed to do something about it. And I think that's an amazingly good thing. We need a different agenda, and we need to know that all pupils have expectations that they learn something in primary school that brings them forward in their lives and that they see themselves as part of a comradeship circle and become deeply unhappy when they discover that they do not belong in that circle anymore. The alternative is, of course, that we rethink the primary school, and it could perhaps be done successfully in many areas, but at least on this there is a broad political atmosphere for it, and the Radical Left would very much like to contribute to that. Therefore, I would say that we need to rethink the guidance of the students, and that is where we should focus now. And then it's just really unhappy that we have so much corona work next door that all other things that are very important are delayed. So an appeal to the Minister to try to put something in before the summer break, so that we can also have something to think about during the summer vacation and can contribute with it, and that we may be able to contribute quickly in the autumn if we set something in motion in a circle that talks about it before the summer vacation. It's just to take advantage of the momentum that's come now that we're so united in doing something about this problem. The Radical Left will appeal to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426152250	We thank Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426152307	There are far too many pupils who do not get into youth education when they leave primary school and there are far too many who quickly fall from the education they get started with. Just the other day, I noticed that there was one article in the Altinget about the dropout on vocational training, which said that 40%. of the young people who started vocational training 2015 have not completed the training today. And that's close to being catastrophic numbers. It is quite obvious that there is a need to give many pupils a better starting point in order to start an upper secondary education when they leave school, and we have never been in favour of the qualification assessment as it was designed. But we recognise that it is at least one of them. has been an attempt to find ways to ensure that young people were ready to embark on an upper secondary education at the end of the school. When we look at it, we have to say that in many ways the upv is counterproductive to getting the students ready for further education. There's been a EVA report on this case... yes, several... but the last one came last year, or it was at the end of last year. There we can see that for a large part of the young people who are not assessed as ready for training, the upv is directly demotivating, and there are several things in the study here that are jumping to the eye. Only 1 in 5 of those who have been assessed are not training professionals who believe that the upv has been very helpful. One in five indicates that they do not remember what assessment they have received, as well as noting in the specific courses. In the EVA study, one out of every other non-specific student indicates that they have had the experience that nothing special has happened to them to prepare them after they have received the non-preparation stamp on them. The guidance counsellors regret that the scheme is so linked that individual guidance is reserved for those students who are not assessed ready. In short, the EVA evaluation is relatively hard in its judgment on the scheme. Although there are major problems, this should not lead us to say that there is no need to do anything to ensure that students leaving primary school are ready for education. We have long pointed this out in the Enhedslisten, and fortunately we have pointed this out in the common understanding paper together with the Social Democracy, the SF and the Radicals, and in addition to thanking the Left for raising the debate here, I do appreciate that Mr. Stén Knuth well wants to push for the implementation of the common understanding paper. It's a good experience for us who've helped make it. We believe that more is needed than simply adjusting the training readiness assessment, which is, in fact, what the Left is proposing with its proposal. I am not sure that we who are behind the common understanding paper can come all the way together. I would like to see us completely removing the training qualification assessment in its present form, i.e. not only in the 8th but also in the 9th grade. Maybe we can get there, too. At any rate, I believe that we need to have a very thorough discussion, including, for our part, in a wider circle of parties, what we can do to get into the situation where pupils experience the support they need in order to actually move forward in a good way after primary school. In the same article, I think, or in an article here recently dealing with the upv, there was a school leader who said: it is not enough for us to prepare young people for education. In fact, we also need to prepare education for young people. And there is obviously more than one problem that says that we must get the young person ready to embark on youth education. There is also something about what we have to do when young people have started their youth education; to ensure that they do not fall away along the way. So, thank you again to the Left for also bringing the debate in here. I think it is extremely important and, as has already been mentioned by the Social Democrat rapporteur, the SF rapporteur and the Radical rapporteur, we really think that what we have agreed on in the papers of understanding is indeed a step further than what the Left points to here. However, I hope that we can have a very good debate on this and that we can go in and resolve a number of the problems that the Left rightly points to in its motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426152827	Thank you, sir. Silver mound. There are no brief comments, and therefore after some cleaning it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426152844	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that the educational readiness assessment is basically sensible. It is not appropriate to send young people towards education which they do not have the conditions to carry out. They need to know whether they have sufficient professional qualifications for a given training offer, otherwise the young people do not know what to work with if we are to improve. It is important to work with young people in education to obtain the necessary professional qualifications to complete the youth education that is right for them, and therefore it makes sense for us to have an educational readiness assessment to help these young people acquire the necessary skills and steer them in the right direction. I agree with the proposer that we should, of course, try to improve the work on the UPV so that it is as motivating for the individual student as possible. The word has not been criticized, and we are open to looking at whether you can strengthen the motivation and self-confidence of students by also focusing on what they can already do and what they are. As I understand the proposal, it is therefore very much about strengthening the pedagogical dissemination of the assessment to the student, so that it is not experienced as stigmatising and demotivating, and we support this in the Conservative People's Party. The second part of the proposal is about providing all students with individual guidance. As a starting point, we are in favour of offering more and better guidance to schoolchildren, but it is important that the proposal is, of course, funded. That is why we also agree that an economic impact assessment must first be carried out. However, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153034	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153037	Thank you. I would just like to hear about the logic of assessing a young person's ability to train, if the young person is actually ready for, for example. 10th grade; post-school; preparatory initial training where you are in a workshop; vocational education where you are in a business and back to school; or specially organized training courses for those who are most at risk. Why should young people who are perhaps not ready for a high school, but who are ready for what I mentioned, have the stamp that they are not ready for training. What's the logic?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153117	But I do not think the rapporteur heard me correctly, because I think it is actually fine, and we would like to look at it whether it is not the right wording or whether we should rather focus on where we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153136	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153138	Well, sometimes we SFs just have to get it in twice. For me, it's just so nice that there are several parties in the bourgeois camp that might be ready to look at removing that word not to find out what the young people are then so I just want to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153151	Thank you. There are no more comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153210	I think this is a really, really exciting debate; I just want to start by saying that. I think this is a little related to the debate on grades. A character can never stand alone. It must always be qualified with something on the part of the teacher. If you get an 8-figure now I'm going to mention the old scale, because I like it best... what do you have to do to get better? What to do to qualify for a 9, a 10, etc.? So that you motivate the student, instead of it just becoming such a demotivating thing, where you get a number, and then you think that deaf, that sucked. I really think that this debate is a little bit like that. Because it may be that you are not prepared for a high school. In my view, too, there are far too many, and I would like to see more people move on to vocational training, for example, rather than everyone opting for high school de facto. After all, this has happened for many years, and I am really, really curious about how we can ensure that you choose wider. But this non-educational part of the debate, which I also mentioned about the grades, seems to me to be the very thing about the fact that it cannot stand alone. Because maybe you're not ready for high school. I don't think it's a bank on top of my head to say that you're not ready to go to high school, because if that's the case, then that's it. But it has to be followed by something. It must be followed by the fact that if you want to be ready for high school, this and this and this and what you have to do. This is how you're supposed to work. But right now I'm gonna estimate that you're ready to go as the rapporteur for the SF, so maybe also mention a 10th grade, or maybe you're ready to go to a post-school. Is that something you've been thinking about? So it's always what it sort of stands with and what you're ready for. I think this is an insanely interesting debate. I would also very much like to be quite honest that this individual guide looked at to a much greater extent at the fact that it was the teachers who were aware of it. I've always wondered a little bit about the fact that you came to a supervisor who might not necessarily know you, instead of the teacher who might be in charge of it. And then I would like to help lift away some of the other tasks that teachers have. We can talk about some student plans and all sorts of other things. But there's the thing about teachers having some kind of guidance role. I myself have experienced being called by former students, whom I have had a talk with, because they might have been recommended a high school place, but where I kind of said that you couldn't think about anything else, and things like that. So I think it's also a lot in the teaching role that, because you know the students so well, you can, in cooperation with the parents, guide this young people that what exactly is it you can do? And as has been said earlier from the platform, there is a very wide range of courses, but I also think we should be curious that there is a lot of things I have met in the Danish primary school too, which are these boys who have gunpowder in a certain part of their body and who are really clever with their hands, and who simply fall through in the Danish education system today already in primary school. How do we make it possible for them also to move forward and show what they are good at, and how do we link up an education system so that there is room for them too? So there's a whole lot of thoughts from here. It is actually so many thoughts that I have not actually written a speech down, because I think it is a very, very interesting debate that we very much, very much want to enter into, including with the experience from, for example, abroad, where you have experience that vocational training can be more practically oriented without losing competence for that reason. It also talks into this with some of these students, where legibility is not necessarily their primary competence, but where they can so much else. So it's all about finding out how we have a broad educational system which, of course, takes into account both the labour market and the Denmark we live in, that is, how to get out on the other side, but it's also about not being very narrow on, for example, going to high school, but spreading it out to make sure that you're seen and heard with what you can, and getting invited in with it. I look forward to that very much. At any rate, I very much hope so, and I would very much like to take part in this debate. I myself have also been in the 10th grade, as a former rapporteur said, because I also went to school very, very early and needed an extra year. So thank you for raising this debate. I find it incredibly interesting and there have been a lot of good ideas coming along, and I look forward to the debate on this very important subject in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153645	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426153708	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Minister for the speech and the answers, and also to the rapporteurs for some very fine remarks and expressions. No one can do anything, but everyone can do something, the Minister said, and I and the Left agree with that. We agree that all children can do something. The most important starting point for a young person's life is probably that some people believe in the young, that some people see the young, and that some people believe that the young person can become something. We all know stories about teachers and schools, and we have also heard about them today, when they were heard, and which have been of crucial importance for how progress has been made after school. Everyone really wants to be a part of this community, both the community that is at school and what comes after, but when life starts by telling you that you're not ready, life starts off wrong too, and for some it becomes the start of a trip through the system, where the system takes on more and more misunderstood goodness. We in the Left would like to see some suggestions on how to do better. We have had some good proposals for this today, and we have also been told that we would like to discuss it further, because all children are ready for something. Let us find out and let us hope in all children that they can do something, even if it takes a different way, which may not be the right way, to education or work. This is the one element of the proposal, that is, the proposal that we set up a working group and look at this concept of "not ready." Does this mean that we should move away from testing, assessment, conversation and assessment? No, we don't think so in the Left. There are some good tools in it, but we are, of course, willing to discuss this further. Let's work together to find out how we talk, write and communicate about this with the readiness. The second element of the proposal is on counselling. Today, it is primarily aimed at young people who need it, that is to say, for those who are not ready. After all, we also guide those who are ready into groups. The young people and, as such, the vulnerable young people, parents, teachers and managers, and also those of us who have made this proposal, have talked about the fact that this concept is not very demotivating, and the fact that the guidance is only for those students who are not ready, they have also pointed out that we should look at. We hope that with this we have kicked off a debate or that we have at least got the government and the minister to have some conversations about this. We can hear from all parties that they are both very concerned about the lack of clarity, but also about the guidance. I look forward to discussing this further, and the Left is looking forward to it. I hope that it is not just the parties on the understanding paper that are going to discuss these things, but that everyone, as tradition offers, when we talk about education and especially about the school area, is invited to join them. At least I hear a great deal of support in the Danish Parliament today for us to look at this with a lack of clarity and also to see how we can guide something better and perhaps even open up the primary school more, for those with the smart hands were New Citizens' rapporteur who talked about it and the healthy boys we need to get hold of. There is no doubt about that. I look forward to that and I hope that together we can find some good solutions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426154053	Thanks to the rapporteur for the authors No one else has asked to speak and that means that the debate has ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426154110	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426154125	Thank you for that and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. After all, the motion for a resolution makes visible the political differences that exist between the government and the bourgeois parties. I think that, in order to spend more public money, we should first be able to see that some people have a need, and I simply cannot see that in any way whatsoever about this motion for a resolution or by looking out in reality. Today the coupling rate is 76. The percentage of interconnections was raised by recent bourgeois governments from 71 per cent. in 2015 until finally 76%. in 2018 onwards. During the same period, the profits of free and private schools rose from 134 million. kr. to 291 million kr., i.e. by more than one hundred percent. Then we are back to the first sentence: when you need more public money, it is actually a very good starting point to start by ascertaining whether the people you intend to give the money really have a need. And when there is an increase of more than one hundred percent in one's profits, there is, to the best of my knowledge, no need. At least I can think of other places that could then need more money. What is then proposed here with this motion for a resolution is that it should be further raised. That is to say, he will send even more money to some who have seen their profits increase by a hundred percent. I simply do not think I can see the idea of doing that. After all, I fully recognise that free and private schools are solving an important social task of teaching 18%. of primary school students. Moreover, I myself have worked in a free school and in a private high school, and there is no doubt that with the various ways in which you have in the various schools, you are undertaking a huge task. But there has to be some sense in using the money where it is actually needed, and therefore the government cannot support this proposal. I would say that there is one thing I am concerned about about about the free and private schools, and that is what they mean and we have actually had a bit the same debate today about the distribution of pupils in upper secondary education, where we have a problem that looks a bit like it. So we have one problem in the sparsely populated areas of Denmark, and then we have a completely different problem in relation to urban areas, and it is actually the same when we talk about free and private schools. In my best opinion, free and private schools have undertaken a huge task in the local communities in the sparsely populated areas of Denmark, where unfortunately many primary schools have been closed over the last 10-15 years. It took a great deal of speed after the municipal reform, a reform in which, by the way, we in the Social Democratic Party did not participate. But it's just to say that a lot of primary schools have been closed. And there, as local communities, you have had that valve and, fortunately, you have been able to say that we believe that the school, and it became a free school instead, should be the beating heart in our community. That is why, of course, we need a school in our community. I think that is worthy of all honour and respect, and I also agree with the assessment that if you no longer have a school, then it has extremely serious negative consequences for a local area. Therefore, there has been very good reason why the incredibly many fiery souls who have thrown their energies into maintaining a school have set up the free schools that have emerged around. That discussion is so completely different from the discussion that is especially in the metropolitan area and in some of the other major cities. In other words, as in the field of high school, we have such a wide-ranging debate. Because in the metropolitan area we must say that we have had a development in which we are simply talking about social polarisation. I think that we are on, for example. Frederiksberg is up to about half the academic children attend private school. You can, but at least it's not a common school anymore. And then we are back in the discussion about the distribution of pupils at all. There I am fundamentally convinced that yes, the school must teach children and young people something professional, but the school must also teach children to be whole people and citizens of society and participants into a society that they must get to know across the different social, cultural and religious and ethnic divides that exist. This means that it does not live up to the idea, that is to say that you then have a metropolitan area where you have a little caricatured Muslim free schools, which a larger part of the immigrant children go on, with the result that they do not get to know the Danish society. Then you have a number from the upper middle class and upper class in private or free schools where that social segment goes. And then everyone else goes to primary school. So I think that is simply a pity. I would have much, much rather that we had a primary school that could embrace everyone. Unfortunately, for many the primary school is no longer the natural first choice, and that is the case, whether you belong to one group or the other. I think we need to go inside and look at it. It worries me that we have this polarization in the big cities. So this is the thing about the cohesion of society. And that is really what binds the two things together, i.e. cohesion, but it is just in two very different ways. Where free and private schools have been set up in sparsely populated areas, where the primary school is closed, it is about the cohesion of a community, that is, if the school disappears, then a great deal of the community that is around the school disappears and the life that is around it in the community. And in the big cities, the problem is completely different. So this is a social problem that we politicians need to look at and do something about, in my opinion, both do something about one thing and the other. I think it seems a little headless, that is to say, that for ideological reasons we should now just give some money and then do not care whether they really need it or not, but it sends a signal that we are sending some money. I do not think that is the right way to spend money. And I have also wondered why the proposal does not say how much the coupling rate should be raised. Well, in Sweden it's 100 percent. Is that what the proposers would like to go to? If so, it costs 1.9 billion. kr. It is not that long ago that at least a few of the blue parties were in government, and I think that somewhere it might be very interesting to hear where that money should come from. For 1.8 billion. kr. After all, every year is a piece of money, but I do not know because it does not appear from the proposal, which may also make it a little light-legged, i.e. whether it is 100 per cent that we have to go up to. All in all, I would say that we in the government want another way. We would very much like to have free and private schools that take on social responsibility and ensure a broad composition of pupils in their schools. We would very much like schools to be the beating heart of local communities around which primary schools have been closed. And then we think that there is a problem with the pupil composition that is especially around the big cities. Especially around the big cities, there is simply a bias, and it does not work. This means that the children are losing some education, which I believe as a child one has the right to participate in. It is whether you are in one or the other of the types of schools I mentioned. So I think it is really a pity for our big cities that the division into our school system has become as sharp as it is. And I think that is one of the serious problems we need to deal with and deal with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426154901	Thank you, Minister. This gave rise to a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426154905	Thank you so much. Now the Minister mentions ideology, and one might say that the Minister and the government themselves are conducting an ideological crusade against private people: general day-care institutions, schools, etc. What I really would like to ask when we talk about this is what the Minister is talking about with a common school. We are, of course, in complete agreement: in the new citizens we do not want it either. We do not want schools based on Islamic values to receive state subsidies at all. Of course they shouldn't. But we certainly recognise, and I actually think it is commendable that there are free and private schools around Denmark that just deliver a very good job that people choose to do. Then the Minister could not consider, because the politicians in here for decades have simply been so eager to make a lot of rules and a lot of bureaucracy that makes it really difficult to do good school, if you could not really look at it, so that it has simply become so troublesome and difficult to do good school because you have interfered so much, among other things. with numerous reforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155010	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155011	Now I'm a little unsure what that is meant by that ideological thing. So, as I know, the rapporteur has taught at a primary school while I have been to a private school. But, of course, that's how contexts can be a little reversed anyway, isn't it? I would say that if New Citizens have a problem with Muslim free schools getting more money, it is strange that we have put forward a proposal which we are dealing with right now in the Chamber and which would otherwise have exactly that consequence. Because that's exactly what's gonna be the consequence of this. There are also a number of other schools which will have a share in the money, but a majority in the Folketing voted for what is here, so that is exactly what will happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155050	It is clear, of course, as it is very clear, and the Minister knows this as well as we have proposed before; it was unfortunately voted down that we do not want schools based on Islamic values to receive public subsidies, not at all. It's kind of open. It's not something we put on. That is something we are quite proud of, because it is madness that it is happening at all. But I would like to ask the Minister quite specifically, because the Minister is now saying this about using public funds: does the Minister not recognize that this public money is the Danes' own money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155126	Certainly, but I have it as a starting point, as I said in my speech, that I think it is a good idea to give priority to money where it is needed. And a place where you've increased your profits by 100 percent. In a few years, I think there may be other places that have a greater need than. I would just like to say that I am not really surprised that the Danish People's Party is not co-sponsors of the Danish People's Party. In other words, it may well be that New Citizens have put forward another proposal which should do something, but it has been voted down. So the concrete, direct result of the proposal put forward here is that the reported Muslim free schools will get incredibly much more money. I understand there is the nuance difference between the Danish People's Party and New Citizens on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155207	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155207-2	Thank you. I am not one of those who is pointing the finger at the two S-chairmen who have chosen a private school offer for their children or pointing the finger at the current chairman of the SF, who has also chosen a private school offer, because I believe that they have done so for the same reason as other parents, namely that it is a choice that you make because it is best for your child. You know your child better than anyone else and choose what's best for your child. That is why my question is this: is it reasonable to make a child available for the school ideology of the Social Democratic Party when you look at the people who choose private school provision? For school ideology is, of course, that we have to have these mixed schools, etc., but if even party presidents in red parties do not want to make children available for ideology, can it be demanded of ordinary parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155301	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155303	I'm a little unsure what that is, sir. Henrik Dahl is referring to. So, I know there is not a single party in the Folketing that has proposed that there should be a requirement for some children to attend certain schools. So I guess I'm gonna have to solve that if I'm gonna be able to answer the question. I have total respect for people choosing the schools for their children as they please, and I myself have worked at a private school. But, of course, there may be a proposal that I have not discovered about requirements for certain schools. But, sir... Henrik Dahl just saw me clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155340	I think there is a moral requirement for parents built into the speech just given by the Minister of Education. But that's not what I want to continue with. There must also be a precise rhetoric in relation to how we talk about free schools and private schools. This is really an indication that the money follows the child minus 24 per cent, because that's how the clutch rate is screwed up. This surplus is savings for most schools because they need to be built up or made improvements or the like. Is it not more reasonable to talk about it in this way instead of insinuating that they accumulate money for no reason?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155419	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155420	I think we should call it what it is, and it is called accounting a profit. Now the Liberal Alliance tends to be enormously hurrying with public funds. In fact, 2% has been cut. over the school sector year after year, and then I am just surprised that you look at a place in the education sector where you have the opportunity to make a profit that grows by 100 per cent. In a few years' time, you think: right there, more money is needed. So, in some such balanced regard to the fact that there are different things that need to be dealt with in a higher unit and that there may be more who have a need, then perhaps I just think it is a strange priority when you are usually as wary with public funds as is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155506	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats, who is allowed to stand on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155540	Thank you for that, President. After all, this motion for a resolution is about raising the level of interconnection for free schools and private schools. It is true, as has already been said in the debate, that this has actually happened over recent years, from 71 per cent. in 2015 to 76 per cent. Today. We do not have any ambition to change the overall switching rate, but we would actually like to discuss whether the money is being used for free and private schools properly. We note that there are many people in the free and private school sector who say that there is a greater need to link this up so that the free and private schools are actually rewarded, which either carry out a special task, because they are rural areas, i.e. rural areas. the beating heart and school of the local city, or because they actually take special social responsibility by taking in some pupils who have special needs We would like to discuss this, which is why we have written in the understanding paper which forms the basis of government, that we would like to discuss the composition, that is, how this money is distributed, so that a greater degree of reward is given to the free or private schools that take greater social responsibility. This is, in fact, part of the discussion we have had a few times today, namely that we want schools to reflect the society they are part of and that we want a mixed composition, and that, moreover, we think it is worrying if we are, and indeed it is, a "if', because it is not everywhere that the choice of a free or private school is an opt-out of certain groups of pupils or parents with whom we do not want to share school. If, on the other hand, the choice of a free school is an expression of the desire for special pedagogy, a special focus on something or something, or if it is the nearest school because the local primary school has been closed, then it can be a gain. That is why we owe it to the free and private schools to take a nuanced debate on what they are doing. We would therefore like to discuss whether we can reward those who take responsibility, but we do not support the proposal to set up the link rate. We have no intention of changing the overall level, and on that basis we do not support the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155803	Thank you. What the rapporteur says is that schools that do well must be punished because they are elected and because politicians in Christiansborg have made so many rules that it is really difficult to make a good primary school, you have to punish those parents who then choose a private school. It is simply a socialist logic which can be attributed to such a policy, that is to say, a policy which is simply so good that it can only be imposed by force. In short, that is what the rapporteur is saying. What I really want to ask the rapporteur is something else. The Social Democratic Party presented this ten-year plan before the elections, which we have also discussed in the past with regard to these 30%. etc., and there are also free and private schools. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is also clear from this plan that free and private schools will lose a state subsidy if they do not accept the municipal authorising law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155900	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426155902	We have not yet determined how we are doing this, but we would like to encourage and reward, in the case of the large group of free and private schools, those who actually take special responsibility and take that task upon themselves. We hear a great many school leaders in private and free schools calling for this because they feel that they really want to include some of these pupils, but that the financial framework makes it difficult. Then it's also right and we've had it up in other contexts that we also want to make sure that we don't have free and private schools with such a skewed composition as the one in some Muslim free schools. There we have also discussed with New Citizens and others how we can make a model to ensure that it can not get as wrong as it is experienced in some free and private schools. However, for the large group of free and private schools, it is all about ensuring that you are rewarded for doing some of the things that very many of the schools would like to do, but in which there is no economy right now, and in which, moreover, we need as a society, if we are to ensure a mixed composition of pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160010	Here's another comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160012	After all, this is a very, very long debate, which we do not have time to take in 30 seconds, because the whole premise is, in fact, crooked. We fully agree that there should be no subsidies at all for schools based on Islamic values. Well, let's finally get it in place sooner than later. It's crazy to give money to do that. But it is also fundamental to respect the free choice of school. It is about the money following the individual child, and in New Citizens we want the money to follow the individual child one to one. Of course, you have to be able to choose the school in which you best see yourself. I think it might be a more interesting debate to talk about how to secure primary school, and that is where I think we should look at how much politicians over the past many decades have interfered in how to run primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160057	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160058	We would like to discuss how to ensure a better primary school. After all, we are also discussing in concrete terms how to achieve greater flexibility in primary school. I would just point out, as the motion for a resolution does not say, that New Citizens' proposals are apparently a 100-percent switching rate, with a price label of 1.8 billion. kr. a year for which no funding has been provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160120	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Mikkelsen from the Left, who can stay ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160137	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here is, as has been mentioned a few times, about raising the coupling rate for free and private schools. There is no doubt that Denmark has a unique tradition of free schools, where parents have the freedom to choose exactly the school that suits their child's wishes and needs, and we must, of course, safeguard that tradition. There is no doubt either that we in the Left are preoccupied with free school elections. It is important to ensure that everyone has the right to choose a school offer for themselves. All children are unique, they have their own history, and therefore there are also many different reasons for choosing a free school or a private school for their children. It can be an option of a very special type of teaching, or it can be an educational choice. Sometimes it is about the fact that a free school in the neighbourhood has basically become the local school, which is supported as part of the local community, and it is not really crucial for the Left why you have made the school choice that you have. We in the Left believe that everyone should have the right to a free choice of school. Free and private schools are to this day a cornerstone of the Danish education system. Especially in the smaller villages, where the local primary school has long since been closed, they are crucial for the families in the local area to be able to make a living together, but they are also a motor for both cultural and economic growth in the regions of the country. In the Left, we have led several times to strengthen the free schools. The left has raised the coupling rate to 76 per cent. in 2018, so parents have even better opportunities to choose exactly the school that suits their children. Unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party has repeatedly cast doubt on the economy of the free and private schools. Most recently, in connection with the financial bill for 2020, the government proposed lowering the coupling rate from the current 76 per cent. ed 71 per cent. for private free schools. Fortunately, that proposal was taken off the table again, among other things. As a result of great pressure from the Left, which for many years has fought for the conditions of free schools and fought against the wishes of the Social Democrats for massive savings. Therefore, with today's proposal, I would like to say that the Left has great sympathy for the proposal, but if we are still a little sceptical about the proposal, it is partly due to the fact that the proposal is a little unconcrete. What percentage are we talking about? How is the proposal to be financed? In addition, the Left actually also wants to see the linking rate, and we want to do so together with the sector. The Left wants peace and stability in the economic situation of free primary schools. A switching rate of 76 means that ordinary people can choose a free school without the own payment being excessive. We know that there is a majority in the Folketing for good and stable framework for free schools in Denmark. So the Left is suggesting that the committee writes a report which brings together this majority and clarifies the position of the majority for free schools. And in those words, we in the Left are looking forward to the continued discussion and debate on the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160526	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160531	Thank you so much. I understand that this is the rapporteur's first speech on the platform, and congratulations on it. I would just like to ask the rapporteur quite specifically: is the Left in favour of raising the coupling rate yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160546	Thank you, and thank you for your congratulations. The Left is addressing the proposal that has been put forward here, and the best thing I can do is to pass the question on to the rapporteur: what kind of conditions are we going to discuss? We are happy to take part in this, but we have not set a percentage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160609	In concrete terms, the motion for a resolution is that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to put forward a legislative proposal by the end of 2021 to increase the interconnection rate for free and private schools. So I really think it is very simple to ask the Left whether the Left is in favour of raising the coupling percentage, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160625	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160626	For the Left to continue that debate, we would really like to have a debate about: if it is 76.5 per cent, it is 82.5 per cent, or it is 110 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160636	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, who is asked to be ready, is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426160659	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party is a strong supporter of free and private schools. We have been through this throughout our political history, and we have continued to do so. We are not in this resolution, nor can we support it, and I really think it has been written surprisingly quickly and resolved. You want to raise it, but to what? Is it 76.01 percent?? Is that 99.9%?? That's not really clear. Nor does it tell how to finance a possible swelling of the coupling rate. Today it is 76 per cent. We think it is a fine level, and we have, of course, while the Danish People's Party had a little more influence than today, together with the bourgeois parties raised the coupling rate from 71 per cent. At 76 per cent, it is 350 million. kr., which the free schools have received overall as subsidies from the state. I do not hear any desire from the private and free-school associations that they will have a higher subsidy. They really think that the level is good, as it is and then there is also the saying, as the Minister has also pointed out, that Muslim free schools will also be strengthened by this proposal. Then you can come and say that you are against Muslim free schools, but the fact is that if we raise the coupling rate, they will get more money and we do not want to give them more money than they already have. I am also a little surprised at why extremely liberal parties want to increase state support for something that is private. In other words, we support the fact that it is 75-76 per cent, because the free schools and private schools are an excellent addition to the primary school, and we really do not care if there are 5 or 10 or 15 or 30 per cent. of the students who attend free schools in a municipality, because it does not affect cohesion. In those areas where there are up to 30-35 per cent. students who attend a free school still work away from Denmark. However, we are against raising the percentage of coupling when it is not even a wish of the sector itself, and if the proposal is so loosely written that you cannot even tell what it should be. The Liberal Alliance was in favour of 80% earlier, and that was the case. We thought it was too loud, but that was something to do with. So the rapporteurs behind the resolution actually owe it to us to tell us how high they want to raise the switching rate and where they want to find the funding, and there I think I have a problem, especially New Citizens. I know that 110 billion will be saved. kr. in the state budget. This is where you want to withdraw that money. After we have removed the 110 billion. kr. From the state budget to find some extra money for these free schools, where are they supposed to come from? I simply do not have an answer to that. New Citizens received praise earlier today from the Danish People's Party. They will not get that in connection with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161050	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161053	No, it is also fine that the rapporteur was so kind as to say earlier that New Citizens were right when we attacked the Danish People's Party that they no longer had a bourgeois economic policy and that it had gone downhill since 1997. It is very good to be praised for it, and this is also connected with what we are talking about here, because it is about letting the money follow the individual child; it is not about the state supporting, because the money that is in the state is the Danes' money; it is the Danes' own money. So this is about, that is, when you raise the coupling rate, that the money has to follow the individual child and that people have to have the opportunity to choose exactly the school they want, and that you have to make schools more equal. But I would like to ask the Danish People's Party whether the Danish People's Party wants to raise the coupling rate, or whether they think that the state is better at managing this money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161154	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161155	Well, I've answered that in my speech. We don't want to raise it. We think that 76 per cent. I'm fine. With regard to the fact that the money has to follow the child, I would say that it is the state today that, after recovering the taxes, distributes this money to free schools and private schools. And then all I have to do is ask New Citizens: Where will you find the money when you want to cut 110 billion? kr., and 2) when you haven't wanted to fund this? Well, dear friends, it's not very bourgeois not to want to finance your things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161226	Thank you. Dear friends, too, are directly indicted. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161229	We're always very happy to finance it. I think that the Danish People's Party got a really good lesson in where savings can be made in the public sector when we dealt with our proposal on the law of prosperity the other day.That was also what the rapporteur previously praised New Citizens for, and thank you for that. But I just want to say that, of course, there are places to save in the public sector, but this is about letting the Danes keep more of their own money, that politicians have to decide much less and the Danes have to decide much more for themselves, including more of their own money. Can the Danish People's Party support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161303	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161304	Well, listen: It is very simple; the state collects taxes, and the taxes are then distributed; some of the tax money goes to the free schools; in order to do so, there has to be money, and when you want to remove 110 billion. kr., it's gonna be hard to find money for free schools. That's why I think it's irresponsible. And it's not funded; you don't even tell what the clutch rate should be. Is that 100 million? kr. or 300 million kr. or 500 million kr. extra that you want to use? I mean, it just can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161340	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161358	Thank you. I wouldn't really bother to bring the proposal up here, because it doesn't make you much smarter. It is something about raising the coupling rate, but the proposal does not say how much, nor does it say how it is to be financed. That may be, as was also said very wisely by the rapporteur of the Left, everything between raising it to 76.5%. 82.5 per cent. or at 100 per cent, and it will cost everything between 0.5 million and 0.5 million. kr. and 1.8 billion. kr., and then we have to deal with that. But then maybe I'll just tell you a little bit about SF's free school and private school policy instead and say that we're voting no to this a little airy proposal. We think it is very good that there are free schools and private schools in Denmark. We think it is very good that there is an educational alternative to state school or to primary school. The primary school must be for everyone, and that must be where you break the negative social heritage and you meet across, and then active parents, active parent groups and people with other educational visions must be allowed to set up alternative schools where they can run school in other ways. They can do more national tests and more grades if they think it is right for their children, or they can do test-free schools, which we have many of in Denmark and which have a completely different pedagogy. They can make great school offers in the countryside, and they can make them in the big city. I love the school offers we have in Denmark, where you have both free schools and private schools, and where you have primary schools, and then I would really like an experiment with self-serving schools where you got 100 percent. in grants, but where you were not allowed to take user fees or choose and choose between children. I think it would be exciting to work on this, and that is what we have in the area of day-to-day offers. But maybe that's another talk. It's just to say that I think it's good with free schools and private schools. I would actually like to create some stability about them, which is why the SF's proposal has been to reform the economy of the free and private schools even before the elections, so as to ensure that the schools that take social responsibility are rewarded, and that the free schools themselves have been backed up by this, and that when we are done with the reform that does not have to take money out of the free schools and private schools, it will also mean that the free schools in the country will have more money locked up and a broad agreement that ensures free schools and private schools quiet. That is actually what I hear is the greatest wish out there, namely calm. But if I had more money, I had that amount, which is slightly unclear, from the proposal, whatever it is 0.5 million. kr. or 1,8 billion kr., they wouldn't have gone to raise the coupling rate, because the coupling rate is now, among other things. Thanks to the Liberal Alliance, have been lifted in virtually all financial laws, I believe, under the previous government and congratulations to the Liberal Alliance on having policy implemented. During this parliamentary term, we have given priority to something else, namely to set a billion. kr. If I had more money to go to the school area, it would not have gone to raise the coupling rate; then it would have gone to the Danish primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161724	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426161739	Thank you. The Radical Left says no to the offer in this motion for a resolution. 203. There have been several critical remarks that I agree with, so I shall not repeat them. But I think everyone knows that the radical Left tradition is very strong in favour of having the choice between free and private schools and primary school, and we will of course stick to that. We are also pleased that the coupler percentage has landed at 76 per cent, and we define it in this way that it is 75%. to the actual coupler percentage and 1%. for special education in the schools that need it. And we have no intention whatsoever of increasing that switching rate. However, we would like to see the linking rate in principle and actually reflect the costs of the pupils in the public schools, and there we just remind the government that there is a teacher billion that must somehow be included in that equation. I think it's about today. 18% of students in Denmark who attend a free or private school. It's a relatively high increase, and I'm sorry I haven't checked. However, it was the municipal reform that triggered an increase in private and free schools, and it did so because the municipalities grew larger and there were actually many, or some, municipalities where the mayor seized the opportunity to save some money and close some schools. There was a municipality up in North Jutland which closed 12 primary schools, and then eight free schools came afterwards, and the mayor was delighted to discover that there was actually a fairly good supply of schools in the municipality in which he himself was mayor and where he had saved away a number of primary schools. So it was a surprise that he had not expected, so that the school supply was as stable as it was. That gives us something to think about, I think, because it is not intended, even for the Radical Left, that the primary school should be overtaken by free and private schools. That is why we need to find a balance, and I do not have to make myself smart here and now, but I think it is fair that we should discuss it. It is not because I think it should be regulated through the coupling rate; it would be crazy. However, one must do so in view of the fact that the municipalities are thinking about how to provide their citizens with relevant educational places for children of primary school age, and thus also how to service the primary school so that it becomes competitive with free and private schools. In those words, we will say no to the proposal here. We believe that this is far too slender. It is very difficult to read which policy to actually pursue, except that you need more money, and we do not think this is a particularly qualified contribution to a debate on the relationship between the public schools and the free and private schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162055	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl. Henrik Dahl It is a mistake, sorry). There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162111	It is not long since we last had the pleasure of discussing the coupling rate in this Chamber and, as I am listening to the speeches, one can say that there is probably not much movement in this matter either. I think that at the time, a year ago, when we discussed it, I said that I thought it a little too bad that the issue of the coupling rate remained such a political battlefield. In fact, I do not think they appreciate very much in the open school world that we continue to swirl dust in this matter. So if the aim of the proposal is to give a hand to the free schools, I do not really believe that the proposers have been so lucky about it. I have to say for the record that we are concerned about the growth in the number of free schools at the expense of primary school. There's no need to hide that. We are concerned, when we look at the figures, that in many municipalities we have undermined the basis for the breadth of the primary school. But that does not change the fact that we recognise the great value of our free school sector. We recognise the great value of the work being done in the sector. As usual, we point out that we have a long and strong free school tradition in this country, and we have no intention whatsoever of shaking it, even though we have the concern for primary school that we have. We have tried to safeguard the economy of the free schools also in a debate with the government and most recently during last year's financial law negotiations. They have already been referred to, so it is well known here. We have no desire to hit the economy of the free schools; on the other hand, it seems very strange that, as several rapporteurs have said, there is now a proposal, even though it is not precise, to increase the economy of the free schools when, in fact, there has not been a desire from the free school sector itself, but, above all, a desire to have peace for this whole debate on the linking rate. We then have, in order not to be more sacred than the Pope, a debate that we would like to take part in ourselves, namely a debate on whether we can distribute the total sum that we allocate to free schools in a better way, so that the schools that lift social responsibility may have a greater share of the total funding. However, in relation to the overall economy we allocate to free schools, I think it is a pity that we should have the discussion again today. As you can hear, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162419	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162423	No, and I certainly wouldn't be surprised either, I would say. I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten was outside and voted against the latest primary school reform and thank you for that but I just wanted to say now that both the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten state that the sector is not screaming at this, to ask: did the primary school sector scream that there should now be more politician involvement and more reform? At least I don't remember it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162452	No, it didn't scream in elementary school. It is always dangerous to believe something about what others think, but it is really my impression that I have many contacts in the free school world that there is a perception that there is reasonableness in that when we have a free and private school world, there is a self-payment of a certain size. I do not see anyone saying anything else in the debate. I believe that there is a broad recognition of it, that we are providing the free school offer and that if you want something else, then the basic law will ensure that there is an opportunity and then you will pay a certain proportion of the school cost yourself. I do not think it is an opinion in the sector that it is unreasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162543	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162547	After all, it is not the politicians who make anything available; it is the Danes who pay for the schools, whether you choose a primary school or a free or private school. They then get paid the full amount when they choose a primary school, and they get so little less and have to pay a little extra of their own pocket when they choose a free school or private school. That is, of course, the difference, and that is why we have been involved in making this proposal, because we basically think that we should have some vision. It is not about someone calling the rapporteurs; it is about having visions for the school area, and there we have a vision that the money follows the child one to one and one can choose freely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162628	It is true that it is we, as taxpayers, who finance both the primary school and the bulk of the cost of the free school. And that is why it is also a pity that there are parties that believe that we should have very dramatic cuts in tax payments; for that would mean, if necessary, both in the primary school sector and in the free school sector that there would be a lot less money to do well with. But there we have a political disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162655	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162712	Thank you. Free and private schools form an important and proud part of the Danish education system, and that is why I am also pleased that we are today dealing with this resolution which we in the Conservative People's Party have tabled together with the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. In the motion for a resolution, we want to require the government to put forward a legislative proposal to increase the coupling rate for free and private schools. For the Conservative People's Party, it is a top priority that we have a real free school election in Denmark. If parents want their children to go to a free school or private school, they must be allowed to do so, and the money must go with the child to a greater extent. In addition to ensuring a genuine free choice of schools, an increase in the switching rate will also help to maintain local communities in the outermost regions of Denmark. An increased switching rate will ensure that rural areas can preserve the free and private schools that help create the framework for living cities throughout Denmark. Free and private schools have a really important and invaluable role in our local communities, so we also believe that it is crucial that there is a real opportunity to create a robust and sustainable economic foundation under them. A free-school student costs the state three quarters of what a primary school student costs, so we think we can afford to look at whether it has been cut properly and that we can look at how we can raise it, as is proposed here in the proposal. Against this background, of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal that we have been involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162854	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162857	It was nice that somebody finally came on the side of the proposers, because then we can learn more about what you really want or what the rapporteurs are going to apologize for! What is it that the coupling rate should be if you vote in favour of this proposal? Are the draftsmen of the proposal agreed on it? And what will it cost and where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162921	Thank you. If we were in complete agreement on exactly where the cut should be, it would probably have been in the proposal. What is being proposed is that the government should come up with a proposal and that we should then negotiate from there, and then we should also take the funding there; those who want to increase the coupling rate may also help to find the money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162940	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426162940-2	In other words, if we voted in favour of the proposal we are debating, no one really knew how much the coupling rate should be raised, because the rapporteurs behind the proposal cannot agree on this themselves, and because the rapporteurs behind the proposal do not agree on where the money for the proposal should be taken. It seems a little odd, but then I think I might just ask: what does Conservatives think should be the coupling rate forward, and from where do Conservatives think the money for the promise should be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163006	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163007	We haven't had that long ago, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So it could be a place to start, but we would also like to look at raising it further. We think it is important that we have good free and private schools in Denmark, and this also requires a robust economy around them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163038	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163051	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark, the money for the child's schooling follows the child. Unless parents choose an offer in a free school or in a private school, the money follows the child with a deduction of 24 per cent. We simply do not think that deduction is reasonable. Firstly, it must be possible for parents to honour compulsory education without being forced into the system organized by the State. After all, it is a right that parents have had since the Basic Law of 1849. But there is another reason, and that is the question of monopolies. Because whether a monopoly is public or private, experience shows that the creation of a monopoly is evil, the creation of a monopoly always leads to poor control of costs, and that leads to a decline in quality. Free schools and private schools are the opportunity for parents to vote with their feet if the local school does not work, or if there are reformers politicians who for many years have deteriorated the primary school by means of poorly conceived and poorly implemented reforms. What the government wants is the opposite of preventing the monopoly, and that is, after all, creating new public monopolies in areas where there has been no such thing in the past and making the public sector stand stronger where the monopoly is being challenged and that is not the right way to go. It is true that the three parties behind the proposal do not fully agree on where the coupling rate should be, but the way it could be solved here can be seen by entering into the LA 2030 plan • an excellent plan, which has been calculated and financed and worked through and in that plan the coupling rate has been raised to 80, and it is fully funded. So that is one solution, but since the three proposers themselves do not have a majority, there will in any case be a debate. And, of course, we know from the last parliamentary term that the other parties have not gone to the polls to realise our programme. But we think this is a good proposal, it is a good proposal for the Folketing to start negotiations, and that is why we must of course support our proposals, as we ourselves do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163340	You're welcome. There are no brief remarks to Mr. Henrik Dahl, so now we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163405	The people's school is going back to the people. That's how short it can and must be said. I was an educated teacher myself, and until the election on 5 June 2019, when I was elected to the Danish Parliament, I worked in the Danish primary school. I've been a mother since 2009. Both my children attend the local primary school, and I have always been opposed to the reform of primary school, national tests and inclusion used as a saving exercise.• Politicians' bureaucratic demands disguised as educational measures, because they think they know better than professionals how to do the good school. But they're wrong. The fact that I have been elected to the Folketing has certainly not changed my position. I continue to believe that schools should be released from the politicians' straitjacket, and the sooner the better. The schools must be free, the money must follow each child one to one. That is why the linking rate must be raised, schools must be placed on an equal footing. As parents, you should be free to choose the school that is best for your child, there should be no difference. With New Citizens' Policy, education in Denmark will continue to be paid for tax, just as today, we just want to make up for the fact that it is the municipalities that run the schools. Municipalities must not have any influence on the establishment, operation or content of the teaching; they must only be subject to supervision. I come from a family where my mother is also a schoolteacher. I remember a lot of conversations over the kitchen table at home, where she has told about how one minister of education after another would decide about schools frustrated, giving up. One so-called good idea took the other instead of just allowing those who are actually trained to do it and who have it every day to do it. One reform took the other. The tapes got tighter and tighter. The enthusiasm of teachers, as I myself experienced, became less and less. When you have tried to sit and copy-paste learning goals into a poorly functioning IT system, knowing that all this work never benefited anyone, you lose faith and desire. You can see your professionalism watered down, and you end up with, well, that copy-paste. That is precisely why it is time to change direction. Get the politicians' constant involvement out of school, and the professionals, parents and children in. Schools must be made equal and there must be real freedom of choice. Politicians interfered extremely with the last school reform, which has neither raised pupils' academic performance nor well-being, as the Danish Center for Social Science, VIVE, concludes. So much for the so-called expert knowledge of politicians. I have never understood why politicians think they should interfere in everything. I want confidence to come back to the professionals and retail management to disappear, and it is actually quite simple. The huge primary school law is to be replaced by a very short school law. Schools must have the freedom to do the best school in their own area in cooperation between the manager and the teachers and parents and children. This is how to create the really good school • a good school, where it is also a priority to upgrade teacher education to university level with longer internship than today; a good school where schools are based on Danish values such as democracy, equality and equality, and where reform-pod learning is replaced by knowledge, education, education and education. It is healthy with respect for the teaching work. It is healthy that parents are free to choose the school that best suits their needs, as long as it is of course anchored in Danish values, languages, culture, liberalism and democracy. We owe it to the talented teachers and leaders and the dedicated parents to provide them with the framework for creating the best school for the benefit of the children. So that framework is not present now. They will be with the school policy of the new citizens, and they will be with real equality of primary and free schools. The money has to follow the child one to one, it's just common sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163831	You're welcome. There are no brief comments to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163851	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426163922	Thank you. I simply have to admit that when I had to take a position on what I was actually going to propose that we should vote on this proposal, I could only be a little confused, because the consequence of this proposal is nothing, since the administrative and legislative matters needed to put free and private schools on an equal footing with primary schools have been carried out. That is why, on the one hand, it seems a little crazy to vote against, since we have done so, and, on the other hand, it seems a little strange to vote in favour, because it is intended that what the government is required to do is something we have already done. So that the end of the day the government has agreed with us and with each other that we are voting in favour, but that it is all the more necessary to say really loudly that the consequence is that nothing is happening, since the things described in the resolution have already been implemented. I assume that the authors of the motion are aware of this, and I actually assume that it is because the proposal has been put forward at a time a little later. And then perhaps one might wonder why we have to deal with it anyway, because I really believe that the proposers are aware that this is the case. It is also for good reason that it is this way, because the Corona virus does not actually distinguish between whether one is one or the other, whether one is one or the political attitude, or whether one is one or the religious one, or how one has organized one's everyday life, and, of course, it does not distinguish between public and private. And, of course, the government doesn't differentiate between these things either and has had a very good collaboration with both free and private schools and primary schools, as well as with municipalities and youth education in the whole question of testing. The municipalities, in agreement with KL and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice, have undertaken the task of providing sufficient testing capacity and have delivered a giant So, we have simply gone from 0 to 100 in no time, which means that there is simply a series of municipalities that have thrown everything they had into their hands. They must have done so, otherwise I simply cannot see how it has been possible to do so and have made sure that this has come to an end. And the municipalities make the test capacity available to both the public schools and the free and private schools. The municipalities are also compensated financially for carrying out the test assignment, both in terms of one and the other. The municipalities make tests available to the primary schools either in the schools or in the immediate vicinity of the schools. The municipalities can decide locally how the offer is screwed up in the individual municipality, and of course it's to give it flexibility, so everything else equals there's a little difference between how much distance you have between schools and how difficult it is and how big an catchment area you have and all these things. And that's why, of course, there has to be a flexibility in solving this problem. The Government considers that detailed regulation is not appropriate. It has not really been my impression that it has been raised in the political follow-up group which sits in the field of education. At least it has not been raised that we were going to detail where the different test centres here should be. So I really think that, overall, there is a very good satisfaction with the flexibility that has been put into it. The municipal test trail does not include public or private youth education. It is otherwise stated in the motion for a resolution and that part of the resolution is simply not entirely correct. For it is the case that in upper secondary education one and the same test offer is made... Supervised self-inflation, it is called and it is available to both public and private institutions. But it is not a municipal task to solve it, either in terms of private or public youth education. It is not really my impression that in general there should be problems with the test coverage at free and private schools, other than the first few days, when there was some doubt about what was up and down the whole of this new test regime that was to be put into the world. I regularly meet with the associations concerned for free and private schools, and that is also, of course, in order to follow up if there are any challenges. As part of the agreement between KL and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice, challenges and dissatisfaction with the test offer made by the municipality must be resolved locally or in relevant sectoral partnerships. And that means that it would then also be there, it would be appropriate to take it up. Of course there may be holes in the cheese out there, but I think, in general, it can be said that this test regime, which has been set in motion at extremely short notice and which today works very well, is a power performance of the very special under this coronatide. So thank you very much to all those, both public and private, who have contributed to making it possible to get the test regime up and running that way. So summa summarum: we have made the necessary administrative changes, which is what this proposal is proposing, and therefore it is pointless to vote against. But this is a vote of expectation that nothing will then be done, since it has been implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164442	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we can move on to Mr. Jens Joel, who is the Social Democrats' rapporteur on this issue, and he even gets super services from the Minister in the form of alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164504	Thank you for that, too, to the President-in-Office, who does not need to be surprised at the level of service provided by the Minister. That is generally high for all the parties of the Folketing, I can confirm. That was the red apple we came from, wasn't it? It's been school politics all afternoon. Well, this can be done relatively short, actually very short, because the prerequisite for reopening as much of the teaching as we have fortunately agreed with each other is that we are being tested, and that applies, of course, regardless of which school you go to. That is why I also have the impression that when this proposal was tabled, there were some practical problems. There were some uncertainties and there were some start-up difficulties, but there has been no political conflict as to whether private and free schools should be made different from public school provision. That is why, of course, we have also solved the challenges, and I would like to endorse the Minister's praise. It sounds so easy to say that we have solved the challenges, but it is very much the municipalities and the people out there who have solved this. Against this background, I can say that we support the idea that all pupils should of course be treated equally, and that is why we support the motion for a resolution, but we do not really believe that it will bring about any changes, because fortunately that is also the case out there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164623	Thank you. Now it's gonna be exciting to see if it's the minister or sir. Jens Joel, who provides services for the next one. The next is Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164638	Thank you for that, President, thank you to the Minister, and thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur for really taking the air out of this motion for a resolution entirely by joining us. What are we going to argue about here on Monday afternoon in the Parliamentary Assembly? I'm glad you're joining us. Where the film may break a little bit for me, in fact it is in relation to the Minister's words that it means that nothing will happen. Perhaps we should help each other with this afterwards, because there are examples out there that things are not going quite as fast as we might dream of, in relation to the municipalities supporting the test facilities of free and private schools. In any case, we are aware of examples of this. I am not going to give a long speech to the rapporteur, because it sounds like we are in agreement. We just need to get those examples out and make it work. So with those words, I would just like to finish my rapporteur's speech and say that I am pleased that we can reach an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164750	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, and we can therefore move on to the next rapporteur. I don't know if sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen wants to drink off for someone from the Danish People's Party, but I hope so. That's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, rapporteur on this matter. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164814	Thank you, President. When you are in opposition and want the government to do something, there are many things you can do. One can raise a question debate, one can call for consultations, one can ask ministers both written and oral questions, and then one can table a motion for a resolution to press the government. What the Minister is saying is absolutely right. It has been dealt with. It's happened fast. In fact, we should have withdrawn this resolution, but sometimes we go a little fast. I think we can fix it in committee so that we are free to vote on it. At least that is what I would recommend that we and our colleagues do when we get this far. But thank you for the service message.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164859	You're welcome, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur, who himself has to scrub off, is Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426164911	We also think it's a good idea. Health policy is not school policy. We have launched a comprehensive test strategy and private schools and free schools should not be put at a disadvantage. We already made that clear when there were problems about it. We are voting in favour of the proposal, as are all the other parties in our part of the block. Then I've done my own little hearing to see how things really are going. Free School Teachers Association says that they receive almost no inquiries from teachers about testing at the moment. Teachers are happy to be back, and in most places sensible ways of doing things have been found. In Denmark's Private Schools they say that it works very well. At least they hear nothing else, but they still think that it is very good to point out that there should be equality. That's what we're gonna take care of. The free schools also say that overall it works very well, but that there are individual challenges in some places, and that must be solved there. So it seems that we are kicking in an open door jointly and forcefully, and then we can make it clear that there must be equality. There must still be. Where there are problems, they must be resolved as soon as possible. We shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165033	Thank you. There are no comments here either. And Mr. Jacob Mark is now phoning off for the next rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165046	The Radical Left is also voting in favour of the proposal. I have to say that this is one of the first times that I have experienced so massively that a draft parliamentary resolution is overtaken by reality. I think that's very funny; I'll hang it up on my wall for a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165119	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165125	Thank you. There is no basis for a proper debate here, it has to be said. Then there is no reason to invent anything, but if it had been 4-5 weeks ago, we might have had a fresh debate. Because it can be said that the National Association of Municipalities may not just as easily hit the nail on its head with their first comments in this case. I haven't been as thorough as mr. Jacob Mark doesn't want you to red tape your work, but I just interrogated myself. And for the record, I would also like to say that I hear from the school world that there is actually a very good collaboration with the National Association of Municipalities. It is not always the case that one hears it from the school world, but it sounds as if the problems that really were there are different. Frankly, I had some doubts when I was preparing for what could actually be done more to bring it ashore, but I have been confirmed by the speeches that there is no need for us to do any more. That's why I think it makes sense what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says that we write a story. However, if this were to happen, we would also vote in favour of the proposal at a possible second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165253	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165314	Well, I don't know if there's so much to say. The reason we're not co-authors is because we think that there shouldn't be all this test circus that you have in schools. I have aired my great concern from this platform and also from several other places with the knowledge I have about how easy it is for children to beat each other out. Would you say uh no if someone was infected? Don't you want to take a coronatide? And why don't you? Those are some of the things that may be. I simply think it is out of proportion. I do not think it is necessary for children to be tested. However, since there is now a majority in the Danish Parliament who believes that children should be shame tested several times a week, it makes sense, of course, that there should be a level playing field, regardless of which school you go to. But basically, we are not in favour of testing children in this way, not at all. On the contrary, we think that they should all go back to school immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165419	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And so we can move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165428	Thank you for the floor. Already at the beginning of the epidemic I wrote in a newspaper comment that the covid-19 was such an ideology breaker, so that if you were very ideological in handling the epidemic, then it would go wrong, because this situation would require pragmatism. And I think that pragmatism is very, very beautifully seen here, where the whole pragmatic parliament agrees on what is the right solution. Of course, we support our own proposal. I would like to take advantage of my speaking time, as I am the only education rapporteur, who is also the health rapporteur, to thank the education rapporteurs, just on behalf of the health rapporteurs, for taking covid-19 seriously. This is a problem that we have been working on day and night throughout the period since 11 March last year, so we are glad that we do not get extra trouble on our desk, by sitting over on the Health Committee and dealing with this boring matter. Now it is being arranged in a flexible and sensible way, which everyone is happy about, and we health rapporteurs are pleased about that too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165553	You're welcome. And we have another rapporteur, the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165610	Thank you. As rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, I should like to thank you very much for the great support that has been given to our motion for a resolution. It is not because we wrote it for fun when we wrote it; it was because there really was a problem and some challenges that some schools were having trouble with. So there were, in fact, some challenges that we would have liked to have addressed, but it is nice that they have been resolved. We had a lack of equality out there, where some municipalities were a little worse than others, and there were some problems with KL. However, we are pleased that the problems have been resolved and we hope that we will never find ourselves in a situation where we are experiencing such a lack of equality again. But thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165653	You're welcome. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be passed on to the Committee on Children's and Education. And if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210426165708	There's nothing more to be done in this meeting. And I think there are three Presidential shifts who are delighted that they are not going to work tonight, so I will say thank you from them. And I would also like to thank everyone for their work today in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 27 April 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
