ParlaMint-DK_20210223130005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and Niels Flemming Hansen (KF): Motion for a resolution no. B 157 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the coal mining of the railway sector). Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 158 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on ferry service by Bornholm). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 159 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution guaranteeing a 2-day stay in the maternity ward or possibly a patient hotel for all born after the end of childbirth). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 160 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of penalties for multiple offences). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 161 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the compulsory possibility of digital resident voting in general housing departments). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 162 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Mette Frederiksen, on behalf of the Court of Justice, now). Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 163 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the legislation on the right to the care of sick children in the event of general illness (Citizen's Proposal)). Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 44 (What can the Prime Minister tell us about the government's plans in relation to the Syrian warriors who sit in the camps in Syria, al-Roj and al-Hol and elsewhere, including whether the government is planning to bring the children and their parents to Denmark?). The Committee on Social Affairs and Internal Affairs has presented: Report on the revision of the rules governing the reimbursement of mayors and others. and the Presidents of the Regional Council.4 The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210223130217	The item listed as No. 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223130246	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223130335	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223130342	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-5, elected by a majority? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210223130405	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today at 8 a.m. 13.20. That is why I would now like to ask all Members to leave the Chamber calmly so that we can be clear and clear in the next sitting.
