ParlaMint-DK_20210624131609	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131612	The items listed as No. 6 and 7 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. As you know, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has adopted new guidelines on when to vote in the Chamber on the approval of a derogation from the Rules of Procedure. This means that the question of derogation from the 30-day rule will be put to the vote if a proposal is put to the third reading less than 14 days after submission. Today, therefore, we shall be voting on the approval of item 7 of the agenda (L 238). Before I start the vote, I would ask you to check that it is the right name that is in the voting panel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131646	We shall then vote on the approval of the L 238 and we shall vote on it. The vote will end. For the vote: 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The consent is granted. The item listed as No. 6 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131733	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Radical Left in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Susan Kronborg, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 17 June 2021 when Morten Østergaard resigns his mandate per year. 16 June 2021. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131752	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 97 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131817	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131829	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. voted 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, Orla Østerby (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 2 (LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131854	The Minister for Health has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. One and two left. Does anyone wish to maintain these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131914	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0, abstentions 1 (NB). Thus the bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131939	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624131957	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 84 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, Orla Østerby (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 4 (NB and LA), abstentions 7 (EL). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132024	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132046	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 91 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, Orla Østerby (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 4 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132111	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132128	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Orla Østerby (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132150	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132205	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 90 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, Orla Østerby (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 2 (LA), abstention 3 (NB and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132230	I'm just gonna take a look at the amount of speech you're gonna give me. If so, I will of course turn off the A, but I understand that at least Mr. Morten Dahlin wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132304	Thank you for that, President. The case of a new exit centre has, to say the least, been handled amateurically. This case starts, after all, when the government, without involving anyone other than itself, decides to place an exit center for deep criminals deported on Langeland. We should not have followed much in the field of foreign policy in order to predict the disastrous consequences it would have had for a small local community. So it was and is a deeply critical decision. That would not be like kicking someone who is lying down, but it would be like kicking someone who is getting up. Although the Social Democratic political rapporteur stood on this platform at the end of the debate and seriously claimed that the government had done their homework in the Holmegaard case, I think it is clear to everyone other than the government itself that this is certainly not the case, because the skeletons continue to roll out of the cabinet. First, we found out the government hadn't even looked into the property before they bought it. Then we found out that the government had not given a single thought to the law on local consultation. Finally, we find that the government pays a real overpriced price for the property, contrary to the advice of the government's own advisers. The fact that the money went to a man who has previously been convicted of fraud with EU funds is just another skeleton. So much for doing your homework. But it's actually not even the worst. The way the government has acted afterwards is even worse, because when a majority in the Folketing, and fortunately for that, has said no to the plans for Langeland, the government sits in the corner with its arms crossed and sulks like an insulted teenager. Now it is no longer the government's ambition to live up to the promises they have made to the Mid-Joys that these deep criminals should be moved from Kærshovedgård. That is why, together with a number of other parties, we have tabled this proposal and it is a two-legged proposal. The first leg is that the government must finally lay the plans for an exit centre on Langeland in the grave, and the second leg is that the government is required to call for discussions so that we can find a new location and thus live up to the promise to the Mid-Joys, the Mid-Joys, whom I can understand, moreover, feel very betrayed by the government. I hope that this proposal will be adopted shortly, and then we look forward to pursuing this matter, because it is certainly not over yet. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132613	I see that there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132616	First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur not to speak on behalf of us Mid-Shepherds. We can do that ourselves. We have thrived on that place and there have been many myths about what is actually happening in our towns and villages. There is no over-crime, for then the newspapers would have been filled with articles about it. That's one thing. The other thing is that I think this is a little populist proposal. Should we vote on every place we don't need a mall? That's one. Secondly, to be a little constructive, I would like to ask: what does the rapporteur think of the genius of Hjørring's mayor's idea of distributing the people who have to be somewhere in the various regions? He has even said that they would like to take a little more than the others who complain and only say what they do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132706	Firstly, I have to say that I strongly disagree with the author of the Enhedslisten. I have visited Kærshovedgård and the community myself, and these deep criminals are creating insecurity. They create a great insecurity for those who live nearby and for those who do business nearby, so I strongly disagree with Enhedslisten's analysis that this does not create insecurity. As far as the Social Democratic Mayor's proposal to distribute these people is concerned, I have not read more about it, but our starting point is, of course, that a new exit centre should be created, and we have then suggested that it should be on an uninhabited island, while the government is proposing that it be on an inhabited island, and I believe there is a real need to be a social democrat to claim that placing it on an uninhabited island does not create more insecurity than placing it on an uninhabited island.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132753	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132754	Thank you. We love guests in Midtjylland, but we do not love knowing guests who, on the basis of a single visit for one hour, begin to speak as categorically as many in this hall do about what is happening in the area. I find it strange that the rapporteur, who is so busy rejecting this proposal and there may be many reasons why he cannot even say whether he thinks that what Hjørring's mayor is proposing is a good idea. I think that the proposal to distribute them in the regions so that there is not so much concentration, which many people have complained about, is the wisest thing that has been proposed so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132830	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132831	I can say this very clearly: we do not think this is a good idea. One of the most important points about having an exit center is to motivate these people to leave Denmark, because the whole objective of this is not to live and integrate into a community. These are people who have committed serious crime and who therefore have to leave Denmark as soon as possible, and that is why we must, of course, create a system that motivates them to leave Denmark, and I do not believe that the solution proposed by Hjørring's mayor will live up to that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132858	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132900	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to tell us where it is that these former criminal asylum seekers and exiles should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132911	We believe they should be placed on an uninhabited island in Stege Bay, called Lindholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132918	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132918-2	That was also the answer I had expected. Then I would just like to ask what the rapporteur's comment is about the many citizens living in the Kalvehave, who are just as insecure about the prospect of getting an exit centre close to those who have been to the Longlands. I also know that Mr. Morten Dahlin is elected in the same large circle as I am, namely Sjællands Storkreds, where Lindholm and Kalvehave are located. What is the answer to the citizens of Kalvehave?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624132945	The answer to the citizens of Kalvehave is, of course, that it is a little funny what Mrs Zenia Stampe says, compared to the fact that it is the only place in Denmark where you have to vote on the Radical Left if you want fewer refugees in Kalvehave. So, we believe that a solution with an uninhabited island leads to less insecurity for the Danes than to put it on an inhabited island. We're not saying there's a brilliant solution to this problem. There are only bad solutions, but we have to take the least bad, and that is an uninhabited island.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133013	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133015	Thank you. I take the floor because Mr. Morten Dahlin is going into this with motivational measures. And that's what I'm gonna hear about, sir. Morten Dahlin has some other information than we do in the Enhedslisten. For in 2012, the National Police concluded that detention is not a motivational measure. In 2018, we in the Enhedslisten asked about it again, and there we got the same answer: Freedom deprivation is not a motivational measure. Now we are in 2021 and we have not received any new answers in the Enhedslisten, but it sounds a bit like Mr. Morten Dahlin has some other answers than we have in the Enhedslisten, so I'd like to hear them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133058	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133059	Well, I think it is an expression of political disagreement. I am convinced that if you do what Enhedslisten has just called the most brilliant proposal, i.e. these people are spreading out, allowing them to integrate into the community and settle in all sorts of environments and perhaps even allowing them to work and anything else, then they are less likely to leave Denmark. That goes without saying. We have some deeply criminal exiled foreigners, about whom at least a broad majority in the Folketing has said that they want them to leave Denmark. That is why, of course, we need to install them under conditions that motivate them to leave Denmark. One might ask the other way: does the Enhedslisten even agree with the intention that these people should leave the country as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133142	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133143	Well, of course we do not think that you should be here if you are expelled from Denmark and do not have a legal residence. But I would like to come back to my question, sir. Morten Dahlin, now that I am the author of the question, is this: Morten Dahlin's new information showing that detention is motivating? I might also ask how many people, because of the conditions at Kærshovedgård, which are insanely bad, have had to leave Denmark voluntarily, Mr. Morten Dahlin? So, what is it that makes the Left so convinced that this model of residence, reporting and ill-treatment makes people go out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133222	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133223	I'm gonna have to stop for a minute here. In relation to claiming that Danish society is giving these people poor treatment, I would say that I think it is the opposite. These are some people who have come to Denmark; they have been offered shelter, they have been offered protection, they have been offered health, and the way they pay back Danish society is by committing such serious crime that our legislation says they must be expelled from Denmark. So we are not treating them properly. It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133250	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. There are no more brief comments. It is the case that I have noted two rapporteurs who have asked to speak. It's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Pernille Vermund, and if there are no more rapporteurs, I will continue to have the vote A on. If there are any more, I will of course consider turning off the A. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133310	Thank you. If you are convicted of terrorism in Denmark and sentenced to expulsion, if you are convicted of rape in Denmark and are sentenced to expulsion, if you are convicted of drug crime in Denmark and are sentenced to expulsion for taking the three examples, then we in the Danish People's Party do not think you should be allowed to walk freely in Danish society and harass law-abiding Danish citizens. We think that neither neighbours to Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland nor neighbours to Holmegaard on Langeland nor Danes in Kalvehave, neighbours to the uninhabited island of Lindholm, should have these people wandering around freely. I really think something became clear when the government wanted to move 130 people I am talking about here, a lot of them from Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland to Langeland and the Longlanders with good reason stood up and protested and said: No thanks, we do not want them as neighbours. What was the government's response to these people, to these neighbors? It was that they could get subsidies to set up fences around their homes, so that these criminal foreigners, who have been expelled from Denmark and who can walk freely in Danish society, could not bother them. For now the neighbors had a fence around them. Or you could get supplements for alarm systems, so that if they broke into your house, you could know that they broke into your house. And when you had to shop in the local store, up at the local grocery store or used, there could be guards up there who could try to create some security for these people. I think, then, that most of the Parliamentary Assembly, there are probably some people we can't reach here at all. Well, it's a very low-practical situation that we have ended up in if these criminal foreigners expelled from our country are to be allowed to walk freely, while the Danes, who are their neighbors, must feel fear. That's why we really think we should discuss this thoroughly and figure out how to solve it, so that the Danes get their security back. After all, this motion for a resolution is on two legs. As far as one leg is concerned, one can immediately say that it has been solved, because the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs has drawn ashore and said: we are not moving these 130 people from Kærshovedgård in Central Jutland to Holmegaard on Langeland. So it can be said that the first point in this proposal has already been put into effect. But the second point in the proposal is that the government should call the parties of the Folketing to find out what we are doing now. For most of us know there are a few exceptions, and I don't think we can reach that we have an unsustainable situation. What has the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs done since he drew up the Langeland proposal? I'm really gonna lie in the tail of it there, sir. Morten Dahlin said from up here a moment ago. Well, the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs has said: okay, then we'll drop it with Langeland, when you're so angry about it, and then you can just explain to the Mid-Jaws why they should continue to have these people as neighbors. For now the government has done its part; now the government, it believes, has lived up to its promise to give a different solution than the island of Lindholm. So now the government has chosen to go on summer vacation and does no more to solve this task for the Danes who feel insecure. But it's totally untenable. This should be something that canceled the summer holiday for the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs, because he set out on the bus to find a solution that enabled the Danes, no matter where they live in Denmark, to actually feel safe. That is why I would just like to call for the resolution to be adopted, so that, if nothing else, we oblige the Minister to call the negotiations, but otherwise the Minister to take the floor up here at least and explain to the many of us in here who are wondering why the Minister has not done anything about this since the time when Langeland was abandoned and what the government will do in the future to ensure the safety of the Danes. I hope that we will get the answer here. Otherwise, we might get the answer on Monday, when we called for a conciliation in committee with the Minister in order to get answers to these questions. I hope that the Minister can find a little more than the hour he seems to have set aside for it on Monday. That is what we were able to make available on Monday a month ago when we asked for the conciliation, and it is fantastic that a minister will give the Folketing a full hour on Monday. Well, three or four weeks after we asked for the consultation, he can set off an hour so we can talk about it. I hope that, if nothing else, we can get answers in this Chamber today and otherwise on Monday, when we hope we will be able to get a little better time together. Because this is an important case. It is for the sake of the Danes who feel insecure, and it is, whether they live in Midtjylland, Langeland or in Kalvehave, or where else in Denmark you live and are insecure about the movement of these people in the Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133813	There is a brief comment. First, it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133816	I am very much in agreement with the speech made here by Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I would also like to point out that I think there is a great deal of discussion here and that there is a great deal to be criticized: the purchase of an overpriced building; the hypocrisy of being first against Lindholm and then proposing a solution that is even worse for a local community and so on. That is why I think it is highly questionable that we do not see the Social Democracy and the Government going up on the platform and taking the debate with the Folketing, but just keeping a low profile because you know that you have a bad case and then you hope it will pass. So I think it is a good thing that the Danish People's Party is calling for consultation, and I wish the government had the courage to stand up on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133850	Well, thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. I also think it is characteristic that Lindholm was abandoned because, as they said, it was too expensive. And then you point out an area in Langeland where, after what has been achieved so far, you have at least paid an overpriced price for the building. One could then start by giving only what the building was actually priced at; but there it seems that it has been overpriced. Nor have we been given any hint of an answer to that. So it is true that there are a great many things that need to be clarified here. I can't wait for somebody from the government to listen to me. Rasmus Jarlov's request and answer the questions up here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133929	It is so that Mr. Marcus Knuth has asked for the floor as rapporteur, and so we thank Mr Knuth. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I maintain the vote A because only one additional rapporteur has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624133949	Thank you, President. I don't need to spend much time on this, because I'm actually gonna follow up on it, sir. Rasmus Jarlov said. I find it very, very strange that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not come up and speak himself. I think there were many of us who had been looking forward to seeing what the Social Democrats would do. They had criticized Lindholm. Lindholm was not a perfect solution, but it was certainly the best solution we could find on a desert island. It was also thought that a solution could be found that was better than Kærshovedgård and now there is no solution. I believe that the people who live in the area of Ikast-Brande, who had really looked forward to the government delivering on its promise, must just be strongly, greatly disappointed. So I would really just like to call on the Foreign Minister to come up here and explain what the government is actually going to do to help the many people in Ikast-Brande who had been promised for so long that a better solution would be found than Kærshovedgård. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134045	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. That is why we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134105	It is gratifying that there seems to be a majority in favour of the resolution, which is a joint bourgeois resolution that we are debating today, and that the government already decided, on the prospect of being a minority, to change plans. But why should we go through this whole circus with an exit center on Langeland that nobody wants? Why was it necessary for the Longlanders to say so forcefully and mobilize all the forces? It is obvious that no one in Denmark wants terrorists, rapists and other seriously criminal foreigners to walk freely in their local area. There is therefore a reason why these people have been expelled. You don't want them in Brande around Kærshovedgård. They were also not wanted in Kalvehave when the island of Lindholm was proposed and they are not wanted on Langeland either. And with good reason. Of course, deportees should not move freely in society. It is a perfectly healthy and logical view that it is not the Danes who should scan themselves and live in insecurity. On the other hand, it is totally illogical and unhealthy that an interpretation of a convention makes Danish politicians powerless in this area. Exiled criminal foreigners convicted of rape, of terror and of drugs must leave the country. And if they don't, they must stay in a place where there is only one door out, and that's the door out of Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134242	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. A little late has been marked for a question from Mrs Zenia Stampe, but we are just getting there, because Mrs Pernille Vermund has not gone down from the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134256	It was the wording around one door and that only the door out made me mark. And I assume that Mrs Pernille Vermund, like the Left, thinks that this exit centre should be on Lindholm. I would just like to say, because it may not be a question, but more than that, that there is a road that not only leads out of the country; there is a road that is called a ferry, also to the town of Kalvehave, which is thus pronounced Kallehave, even if it is not spelled that way; so it is not because I do not know my local area. That is why I would just like to ask: what is the answer to the residents who have that door compared to the former criminals who have been sentenced to expulsion? The only door that actually exists leads to their small communities. What is Mrs Pernille Vermund's answer to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134344	But the only reason we now support Lindholm is that the ferry has been sold and that there is no longer a ferry connection. At the time there was a ferry connection, it was our criticism that it was precisely these people had the opportunity to sail ashore and to destroy a new local area. And we don't think it's fair that you just move around these problems. We do not think it is fair that any Danes should be harassed by criminal foreigners. On the other hand, we think it is quite reasonable that if you are expelled from Denmark, you should not be able to walk freely in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134417	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134418	So it may well be that the ferry has been sold, but unfortunately, as far as I am aware of the right to aliens, there is no way of cutting these people off from moving on. They have to report. They're not in jail. So you might have to get a new ferry. What, then, is the answer from Mrs Pernille Vermund when these people are still going to believe in Lindholm because, according to alien law, they cannot be cut off from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134447	But my answer and the answer of the New Citizen is that it is we in here who have to adopt the Aliens Act; it is we who have to decide what are the rules for exiled criminal aliens. And that is simply not fair. That is what I am saying in my rapporteur's speech that we are being paralyzed by conventions, which means that wherever you place this exit centre, there will be Danes who have to be harassed, live in insecurity and scan their own locality. So the legislation must be changed when the legislation today allows these people to harass the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624134533	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the speeches made by the rapporteurs. The motion for a resolution we are debating today requires the government to stop the establishment of an exit centre on the property Holmegaard at the southern tip of Langeland. As everyone in this Chamber knows, this is a matter which has developed a little since the resolution was tabled. As you know, we have already dropped the plans for the establishment of such an exit centre on the property Holmegaard on Langeland, but I would nevertheless like to put a little more words on the background to our decision. From the very first day of this government's life, we have been working to strengthen the return effort. By the time we stepped in, there were about 1,100 rejected asylum seekers in what is called the sending position. A great many of them have been in broadcasting positions for several years, and this is a problem that I think we can solve a little better, and that is why it has been, and will continue to be, a very high priority for this government to have more rejected asylum seekers and criminals expelled to return home so that we can reduce the number in the sending position. But if it was easy, someone before us would have done it a long time ago. There are no quick snapshot solutions in this area; therefore, there is only patient and persistent rye bread work. The government has taken a number of steps to strengthen the return effort, which is based on the excellent rules that have been introduced both the previous and the previous government. These are some measures that have been carried out across the centre of the Assembly and which we are very pleased to see been implemented. Our overall pointer has been that all creative proposals for a new return policy can be discussed as long as it actually contributes to getting people on the planes home. If the cat can catch mice, we're happy about it. We have also had the rule of thumb that the return policy must be organized in a way where the children are better shielded than it happened at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark before the election. We've got one of them. Last year the National Travel Agency was set up, which will be much closer to the individual foreigners and actively seek out them, from the moment they get a decision that they are not allowed to stay in Denmark and right until they return home. The National Travel Agency has among other things: staff who have their day-to-day walk at our exit centres, where they have an outreach approach to the individual foreigner at the centre where he or she lives and stays. In addition, the board initiates with advice much earlier than we have done in the past. The Government has also put forward a proposal for Denmark's first return journey law, which was adopted by the Danish Parliament at the end of May this year. It is a law which contains a number of new initiatives to ensure overall that the authorities are better placed to get more people to go home. Overall, it is a return policy based on a very proactive and hand-held approach. The return effort should contribute to the fact that far fewer people eventually end up in an exit centre, so much fewer Danes end up being neighbours to an exit centre. I think that so far it seems sensible and that we are moving in the right direction in relation to the number of rejected asylum seekers in the sending position. I just got a figure yesterday, and it's two weeks old: we're down to 970 rejected asylum seekers. I understand that some people will say that it is still a major problem. I completely admit it, but we are moving down, we are moving in the right direction. It is good old-fashioned rye bread work: small safe steps in the right direction. This is, of course, partly due to the low number of asylum seekers who have recently arrived, and partly due to the fact that we have had successful exit projects, which have meant that foreigners without legal residence usually in groups have returned to their country of origin sometimes voluntarily, sometimes accompanied by Danish authorities. In addition, the government has established a separate exit centre for families with children in Lejre Municipality on Central Zealand. With this centre, the government has focused on protecting the children better and changing the framework for the accommodation of the children who previously lived at a center in Nordsjælland called Soulsmark. The next step in the return policy should then have been a new centre for the group of among others. deported criminal aliens. In fact, I agree with the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Morten Dahlin, in that there are no good solutions for accommodation of this group, but there is a solution that is the least bad, and that was what we thought we had found with the exit center Holmegaard at Langeland. That is why we presented that solution in May. Our resolution gave rise to a series of reactions, not least from the residents of Langeland, whom I myself met to discuss with them and listen to them and talk to them. Here, too, there were reactions to our resolution, and I noticed that there were not only criticisms from a number of parties, but also a majority who were ready to go down here and press the green button and vote that the government should be required to stop the establishment of an exit centre on Langeland. In the government we have no desire to roll over a majority in the Folketing, and that is why we have pulled the plug, dropped the plans for an exit center on Langeland. So here we are. I understand very well that there is annoyance in Central Jutland, and we have therefore decided that we will advance what we had already planned, namely a helping hand to the area around Kærshovedgård in Central Jutland, so that they will receive further support to tackle the challenges they have already faced. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135110	Thank you. I have five entries for the moment, and that is why I maintain that the 'A', which lights up when the vote is taken, is on. First, it's sir. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135119	Thank you to the Minister for taking the floor. The Minister mentions one part of this resolution, namely that part about Langeland, but very skilfully forgets the other part about the Minister having to call for discussions so that these people can be moved from Kærshovedård. That part of the resolution is, in fact, a helping hand for the Social Democrats, because it was the Social Democrats who made a promise in the election campaign to the Mid-Judsmen. That is why my question is simply: when will this proposal be adopted, when will the Minister convene the discussions so that we can find a solution to the problems surrounding Kærshovedård?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135156	Whether there will be helping hands from the Left to the Social Democratic Party, I will leave others to assess. But I would like to put it this way that I do not think that the location of an exit centre is suitable for political negotiations. I think that what is contained in the Aliens Act is sensible, namely that it is the authorities and the Ministry that provide and operate accommodation facilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135223	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135225	I just need to get it right. If this proposal, which we expect to be adopted shortly, is going to be ignored by the government and not to call for discussions, despite the fact that the Minister has just stood and said that the government in the other case does not wish to oppose a majority in the Folketing. So just briefly: if this proposal is adopted shortly, can we expect the government to follow a majority of the Parliament's wishes and call for discussions so that we can resolve the problems surrounding Kærshovedgård in Central Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135258	No, our focus is to advance the helping hand to Central Jutland, as we had already planned. Of course, I have also read the report very carefully, including the SF's contribution to the report, which states that the government itself must take responsibility for assessing whether and how the parties of the Folketing are most appropriately involved. I am glad of that, because I believe that the Folketing had a good day the day they decided in the spirit of the Constitution, with the separation of legislative and executive power, to say that it is the government and the Foreign Affairs Board that are responsible for providing accommodation. This is not something to negotiate and spread uncertainty around plenty of places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135334	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135336	The minister both blows and has flour in his mouth. He says both that the majority of parliament is adhered to, but yet it is not done because it lies with the government. It's a bit of a double talk. However, what I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about and finely and well that he takes the floor here, and if he then also answers the questions here, it will be really, really good if the Minister can confirm that there are two ratings on the property Holmegaard on Langeland and that they are both significantly below the amount of 13.5 million. kr., which one ended up giving for the property. And can the Minister confirm that only a few years ago the sellers offered the state the property for 8.5 million. kr., i.e. the property now purchased for 13.5 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135417	Thank you for the question. I'm just going through the papers, because I think I just saw something here so I could read something exactly. I have also, of course, followed the discussion about the purchase itself, which the Foreigners' Agency has supported with the help of the Attorney General, and I have just today approved a reply to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, in which it says that the Foreigners' Board has no property valuation expertise in the acquisition of the property, therefore the Foreigners' Board sought legal assistance from the Chamber Attorney, among other things. in relation to the valuation. The real estate agent determined the current market value of the property at 10.5 million. kr., excluding certain parts of the property, and the property was by the broker among others. assessed on the basis of a normal trade period for the area, which is typically a sales period of 6-12 months. The assessment did not take into account the ongoing operation of the course operator and the loss of revenue by the seller in this respect. In addition, the recently established shooting plant belonging to the property was not included in the valuation of the real estate agent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135528	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135529	The public access which has been granted illustrates that there are two assessments, one of which is the one mentioned by the Minister, from the real estate agency Nordices, and it estimates the value of 10.5 million. kr., and then comes the corrections that the Minister makes. The second is an estimate of 5.35 million. kr. At the same time the sellers offered the property to the state two years ago, 8.5 million. kr. Can the Minister confirm that? The fact is that the main argument for not choosing the island of Lindholm, but choosing the island of Langeland, is that it should be cheaper, and it may well be in the aggregate calculation, but that is why it is interesting to see if the state really is starting to buy a property at an overpriced price.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135613	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135615	First of all, I think we should be interested in the fact that it is a real estate agent specialising in commercial real estate. It is the latter. Secondly, I think we should also be interested in the fact that the realtor has actually been on the spot. Then they say 10.5 million. kr. The Foreigners' Board has bought for 13.5 million. kr. On top of the 10.5 million. kr., is there any value in having been able to rent it over the summer. The Foreigners' Agency wants to take over quickly, and there's some value in a shooting range facility that the real estate agent says he doesn't have the expertise to assess. About the remaining 3 million. kr. If it is covered by it, I really should not make myself an expert on, but I do not regard it as far away from what one would regard as common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135654	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135655	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister what I asked before. His party colleague from Hjørring has, of course, made a wise suggestion in my opinion that these people should be distributed while they were in the country. For then what is believed to be a strain on a single area is not so hard, no matter where you place them. And then it would be much, much easier to deal with in the regions. He even suggests that he will take more than what Hjørring must take to take their share. What is the Minister's view of this proposal? Isn't it just to go to and make sure that's what's being used as a starting point? As far as I can see, it means that Hjørring should have 25-27 of those people while they are in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135747-2	I noted very well that there was a media that had conducted a survey among the mayors of the country, if they did not want to address such an exit centre, and that at least a call had been made the other way, from Hjørring's mayor, who had this suggestion • which I do not think is good. Because I think it is important that there is a residence requirement in one place, or at least in a few places. Partly for such economic and practical reasons, because we have to have police presence, there has to be a place where you can volunteer, in other words a place where you can say digitally: I am here now. And it can be very expensive to set up the whole setup in all 98 municipalities. But also because sometimes it actually succeeds in getting through to a country and getting them to accept that they should receive some of their own citizens. And then it's pretty important that we can move people out to Kastrup Airport really quickly and not be looking for them all sorts of places in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135840	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135841	Well, I don't quite understand. In other words, as I understand it, these people have a duty to report, and perhaps that is basically what the crimes in Central Jutland are. That's when they don't come in and report on time, and of course it's so marked as a violation. I mean, you don't have a residence obligation, you have a reporting obligation. They have the right to take a trip to Aarhus or somewhere else while they are there, and that is to say, if the bourgeois have not removed the police from the vicinity of all places, it is probably also possible to do that task, whether it is in Hjørring or Ikast, or where the hell it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135919	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135920	In fact, they have both reporting obligations and residence obligations. But Mr. Christian Juhl is right that the obligation to stay does not mean that they are incarcerated. They're not in detention. They can walk out the door whenever they want, but there are a few times a week when you have to spend the night at the center, and that is because they have committed something criminal, at least some of them, the punishment they have served, and in addition to the punishment they have been given, they have been sentenced to expulsion. So we can't lock them up unless they commit new crime. Now the law is actually just tightened here quite recently, which means that if you violate this residence and reporting obligation by some laps, you can also go into jail for some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135956	Sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624135958	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister has read the SF's contribution to the report. I just wanted to make a comment, because it sounded a bit like some bourgeois people, as if with this motion for a resolution the government was forced to call all the parties of the Folketing into real negotiations on exactly where it should be. I do not think that is how the text should be read at all. The government has been instructed to drop the exit center on Langeland. The government has done that. Then the government will call the parties of the Folketing for discussions on possible locations. In fact, the government has done the same. We've had a nice meeting about it. I think that what is at the heart of this is that the government should ensure that its parliamentary basis is well involved and that, moreover, it should stick to the understanding paper, which says that there will be a study of possible locations. As long as you do, I think we can have a good run. After all, the SF is voting in favour of this proposal because we are very opposed to placing an exit centre on Langeland without having secured support for it. It was just a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140053	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. We've written some lines in the understanding paper about this. We had imagined that this would be achieved by setting up an exit centre on Langeland. It's not gonna happen. Then it is clear that here we have a task to follow up between the government, SF, Radicals and Enhedslisten, which are the parties behind the understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140122	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140125	Thank you very much. Now we have been waiting for two years for the government to deliver on its promise. After all, the government thought that there was a better solution than Lindholm, better than Kærshovedgård, and now it has just become absolutely nothing. For the two years the people of Ikast-Brande have been looking forward to the fact that the insecurity that was in their area should disappear, and that does not happen anyway. So I just want to hear what the Minister has to say to people in Central Jutland who are left with a huge disappointment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140154	Well, I'd like to start by saying that I understand that they're too bad. I really do understand that. I think, and the government thinks, that Midtjylland has carried out a great task on behalf of the whole of Danish society. We think they should be relieved, and our bid was Langeland's... it couldn't be realized.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140213	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140214	But I think everyone can see that Langeland would just be moving the problem from one part of the country to another, and the government had just promised that a better solution would be found, that is to say one where the problem was not simply moved. So now that Langeland does not become something where there is no support for it, why does the government not do anything to actually try to deliver on the promise made, not least to people in Central Jutland, and find a solution which is what the government thought it could, which is better than Kærshovedgård?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140238	In fact, I do not entirely agree with Mr. Marcus Knuth in saying we didn't want to move these 130 people. Actually, that's exactly what we said we would.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140254	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140256	It is really touching to hear the left's concern for these people, i.e. convicted terrorists, murderers and so on. After all, we wait for Enhedslisten's parliamentary group to offer that you can accommodate them privately at home in the collective. But I would like to ask the Minister something. He said in his speech that if this was easy, some people might have done it. Easy compared to what? Because finding a solution is not difficult, I would say to the Minister. The minister can just look right instead of looking left and then vote for the solution offered by the entire bourgeois bloc, namely Lindholm. So when he says that it is not easy, it must really be about the fact that it is not easy to remain minister if you do what is easy to solve the problem. Will the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140353	No, I think sir. Morten Messerschmidt has misunderstood what I said in my ministerial speech. What I said was not easy was to get 1,100 rejected asylum seekers to leave. What I saw also said was that I actually believe that we can do better than we do today with good old-fashioned rye bread work. And I even gave the Folketing the little news that we are now down to 970. I do not remember the last time we have been down to a three-digit number of rejected asylum seekers in the sending position. I admit, then, that it is not just a matter of return policy. This is also due to low numbers of asylum seekers and thus to lower number of refusals of asylum and thus to lower numbers of rejected asylum seekers in removal positions. That is what was not easy, but which I believe we can achieve by old-fashioned rye bread work. That is what is the whole basis for establishing the Home Travel Authority, which is working hard to get people out when they are not supposed to be here. I also believe that the Enhedslisten and the left share that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140447	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140448	After all, we do not kiss the minister for the things that are not easy, because these are things he has done with the bourgeois parties at Christiansborg here in the Danish Parliament. It's something that seems to work. The Minister feels the need, before he has to answer for what does not work, to highlight better repatriation rules, etc. It's something he's been doing with the bourgeois parties. Then why not solve this with the bourgeois parties as well? Why insist on the left, who has laid the foundations for all the disasters caused by immigration? Let them sail their own lake and then let us solve this problem. It's not that hard, I'd say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140525	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140526	My view is that the location of an asylum centre, of a reception centre, of an exit centre should be carried out by a government and a minister responsible for the decision taken. I do not think we should be negotiating where to open centres. Before the big wave of refugees, we had perhaps 10-15 centres in the Danish asylum system. Then, in a very short time, we came up with 80-90. It's so scaled down again. Foreigners buy a lot of properties, and they sell a lot of properties. That's part of what they're doing. I really don't think we're gonna be able to negotiate on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140603	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140605	Thank you. When I take the floor, it is actually because the Minister made it sound as if it was the mayor of Hjørring who had proposed it here. It is, in fact, a majority of the town council in Hjørring who has said that this is something you want to offer. That is why it is not just such a random proposal. It also makes it a little paradoxical that we are standing here and discussing it in the Chamber, where it sounds like it is a centre that cannot be located anywhere because nobody wants it. And then there are some pragmatic people who say that we have a social problem here. After all, it is not a question of placing it in 98 municipalities. After all, the proposal was that each region could take 25. Hjørring would like to offer to take 25. I think there are 129 in total. I don't think the last four should stand between anyone. I think you could also take them in Hjørring, so they could say that they take 29. And then the four times 25 can be placed elsewhere. Why is it that the Minister has such a fundamental opposition to that solution? For that is a relatively pragmatic and sensible solution, instead of listening to all sorts of more or less imaginative suggestions about where they should be placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140706	I would like to start by saying that I did not actually know that it was a majority of the city council, but for me it will not be any more serious either. I also took it seriously when the mayor of Hjørring said so, but I just disagree with him. There are some logistical and financial reasons for this, including: the fact that today we have police officers from Central and West Jutland Police at Kærshovedgård 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. By splitting the group from Kærshovedgård and moving some of them to Langeland, we had to have six officers around 365 days a year at Langeland. So it takes a lot of resources just to make two centers. If we're going to make five, then it's really a lot of resources we're going to spend on it by our police force. And it's just police resources. Then there is economics and many other things on top. Moreover, with regard to the five municipalities in the regions which will have such 25 to 30 seats, I am not sure that there will be jubilee everywhere. But so, the hat for a constructive proposal from Hjørring, which is then from the entire city council, at least from a majority of the city council, I should say here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140811	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140811-2	I think it makes sense to say that it is the majority of the city council that is behind this. But now the mayor of Hjørring is the Social Democrat and of the democratic cast that he makes sure that there is a majority behind the statements he makes. I think that is an example to follow and a good idea. But I can't quite understand the fact that it was due to logistics and economics. So, isn't it so crucial that we secure a place where there's a support to welcome these people and where you can also ensure that there's a self-righteous place, even though it's an exit center, is also a support in the community for that center to lie here? Should it not be the case that one can then look a little at the fact that there may be some logistical and economic challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140847	Thank you! Then we get answers from the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140849	I may not be optimistic enough, but I find it difficult to imagine that five places will be established in Denmark where there will be a local community that welcomes with open arms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140909	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140911	It's a little in the wake of Mr. Carl Valentin's speech before, where I would like to ask how it feels to have such a loyal support party as even in the one situation where you dare stand up against the government, because otherwise you are lynched by the only mayor you have in your country, and where the government is making decisions that are obviously headless, yet feel called to almost apologize for this in the Chamber so that no one in the government believes that the SF is now setting up against the government. It must be nice for the government to have such a support party that you never know goes against the government or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624140949	I do not hear anyone apologising for themselves in this Chamber. But what I have noticed in the foreign policy debate not only in this assembly but also before the elections is that we all end up in trenches quickly. The front goes right down here through the hall. And it is not beneficial for Danish immigration policy in the long term. I believe that we need to get better at taking a deep breath every once in a while and then just try to listen to what the others say. I hear no one saying that the exiles can simply move into their collective. I think it quickly becomes toxic and unconstructive when we discuss these things. And these are some difficult questions, so I dream that one day we will end up in a place where we can have an ordinary low-practical political debate with each other about what foreign policy we should have, without the need to constantly shoot each other things in our shoes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141039	Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141039-2	When we proposed Lindholm, there was a party leader who swam to the island in a dry suit to make political markings. It cannot be said that the criticism that is now coming should be more ditch-graving than it was at the time when it was used in an election campaign and where the rhetoric was in a completely different tone of voice than what we have now. We criticise very specifically that there is no consistency in what is being proposed, because the Left and the Socialists have committed themselves to being against a project that makes sense and now propose some projects that do not make sense by putting them elsewhere than on Lindholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141116	Thank you. Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141117	I'm also sorry if it looks like I'm accusing one of you of flying more than the other. I wasn't in favour of a swim down in Stege Bay either. Nor do I think it is beneficial for the discussions in Danish politics about the area of foreigners. We were not in favour of the establishment of an exit centre at Lindholm in Vordingborg Municipality, because our assessment was that it was more of a name than of benefit that it was a desert island, because there was to be a shuttle service to South Zealand, and therefore buses had to go out to the rest of Zealand. That is why, from our point of view, this proposal fell on the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141156	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141158	Thank you. Well, it's always a pleasure to hear Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt's interpretation of Enhedslisten's policy, because it is therefore wrong. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration that when it is now the case that every time an exit centre is proposed, some people are dissatisfied with it. Doesn't that mean there's something wrong with the construction? No matter what discussion we have about the location, it will be such a discussion where they say: not in my constituency, not in my backyard. That's probably because there's something wrong with the construction. So I would like to ask the Minister: can the Minister make a statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141248	I want to start by saying that we do not actually have just one We have more. But it is true that those who are sentenced to expulsion and who do not have children live one So it is true that, in the absence of poor solutions to the job itself, I also believe that political attention must be paid first and foremost to bringing down the number of rejected asylum seekers in the sending position. That is the real solution. Everything else is patching up. There it is just that I humbly say that things are not going so bad at the moment. Actually, it doesn't. It is true that some exits are voluntary, other exits are accompanied. There may be police officers or people from other Danish authorities on board, but some countries have actually made a breakthrough, and things are moving slowly, and it is laborious. And just as we think there's going to be a plane in the air with an x number of people, sometimes I get to know that it hasn't succeeded. But then we'll try again. Because with every single person we get on the plane, the rumor of forced broadcasting spreads as rings in the water of others of the same nationality and in the same situation that then says: Ah, instead of being sent home by force, I may still take the bag of money from Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141356	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141357	The political task is then also to see whether what we are doing today is right, whether it works. And Kærshovedgård is designed with the so-called motivational measures that the previous government led. I mean, it's okay. It is also part of today's debate that people with an obligation to report and reside should be detained. In 2012, the National Police said it doesn't work as a motivational measure. They confirmed it again in 2018. So I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: what does the National Police say today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141436	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141437	What the National Police are saying today, I would very much like to obtain information from the Minister of Justice. But I would also like to say that there is also a reason why we have these centres. There is also a preventive reason for this. In other European countries, it is said that you will be refused asylum; you will have to leave the country. And if they don't, people live under the bridges and take unskilled jobs as illegal workers everywhere. This should not be the case in Denmark. We should not have such an illegal subclass in Denmark. This means that we need to get a handle on where these people are, they need three meals and a bed, and we don't want them to stand and wash up in the back room of some pizzeria for 40 kroner. It's black per hour. And that's why we have this system that I think has a lot of functions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141511	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141515	Thank you, sir. President. I am thinking of the turn that the Minister used, which we hear for God knows what time in the Danish Parliament. We also hear it many times from the Minister's own rapporteur in the field of foreigners, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund, who says that if you chose the Lindholm model, which we were, of course, parties that would be awfully keen, there would have to be a ferry at shuttle speed. Like a record of phonographs from the Social Democrats, what happens in this argument that Lindholm should be chosen from. There I would like the Minister to explain the sailing plan to which reference is made. Would the Minister please tell us what the timetable is in relation to that shuttle speed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141600	I remember that ferry's name was Virus, and I'm pretty sure it's now sold. I do not know the actual timetable in the head, but what I remember is that a parliamentary question was put to the then minister about what it would actually cost and something like that. And one of the things I remember in that answer was that with these people there is no work permit in Denmark and there is no money, and one could easily end up in a situation where we should be sailing people free of charge back and forth. Then I think it might be quite festive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141635	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141635-2	There wasn't much answer to that. In my optics, a pendulum like this goes pretty fast, it doesn't go slow. When the government keeps saying that it has something to do with a pendulum in relation to the fact that there must be many sailing trips, then one must be able to explain from where one has the misconception that there must be a shuttle service between Lindholm and the mainland, but one does not. Then I would like to ask the Minister: why has the government chosen to spend the 759 million? kr. to anything other than what was intended in relation to the Finance Act that was adopted in relation to securing the financing of Lindholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141708	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141709	I was rapporteur on foreigners when the then government, together with the Danish People's Party, decided that there should be an exit centre on Lindholm, so I followed the parliamentary issues that were then asked. I remember one of them describing how often that ferry should sail; I simply can't remember exactly what it says in that answer, but we can find out, it has to be on the Danish Parliament's website. But if Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby thinks that there will now be arguments in his hat, I will try to set my expectations a little differently, for it is a ferry that should sail back and forth between Lindholm and South Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141744	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141746	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for going up to the platform. A few weeks ago, a mayor from the government's own party, the Social Democrats, appeared on TV 2 News and said that some of the people who had to be placed in an exit centre could be taken. That is why I would like to know whether, when it is proposed by the government's own party, it could be one of the thoughts of the government, namely that we rethink our exit centre structure and maybe get some more exit centres with a few fewer people living there, so that it will not always be this town name thing we are discussing, but the basic structure in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141828	I just have one small correction: it is not a proposal from the Minister's own party, but a proposal from a mayor from the Minister's own party. And fortunately, we're not Scientology, so people can think and say what they want, but we don't agree. There are some logistical challenges with this in terms of being able to comply with the residence and reporting obligations, and there are also some economic challenges with it. By the way, I am worried that there would just be a lot of communities that would think it was a bad thing, rather than a few.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141852	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141854	But now that we have had a rather unmanageable debate in general with city names and so on. and then there is a mayor representing the party that the government also has that bid, so it suggests that it might be in that direction that you have to go when there is even a mayor bidding in. It could be that it was also something other mayors would offer. Could it not be that we should use this momentum that is now and the debate that has been going on to rethink the structure there is, and perhaps also to see if we can do something about voluntary ankle chains, and whether we can do something about more exit centres, fewer people, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141929	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624141930	But some of what the questioner says, I think is really appropriate to start thinking about: can we do more to secure a system that point 1 causes people to leave and paragraph 2 is actually also feasible? I also note that, of the many, many inquiries I have received from people who are suggesting where such an exit centre could be located, I have not received anyone from a mayor who says: just bring it to us. The only thing I've heard is from the majority of Hjørring City Councils who have spoken in a questionnaire survey and where they were the only ones who returned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624142005	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. In a moment, we're gonna have to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624142019	But before we do, I would like to say that we are now at the end of a long and hectic parliamentary period of record readings and also long readings in this Chamber. We have also had to use additional working days to get through the compressed programme that the Danish Parliament has had. This assembly has also been in the shadow of the Corona, but fortunately Denmark is somewhere else. And in my optics, the Danish Parliament has proved its worth by bringing Denmark through another challenging period. The will to bow to each other and find common solutions has been of great benefit to the whole country, and we have managed to ring around Danish society to save lives and jobs. I would like to thank everyone for their constructive cooperation, and I look forward to the resumption of the new session in more normal forms. I look forward to when there are again school classes out there in the Wandering Hall, who come to visit and experience us at close quarters, and full houses for conferences and hearings. I think it can be everyday when we meet again. But before we get that far, we need to enjoy a well-deserved summer break. My call will be yes, it's close to being a service order: Put your phone on silent, take a break from digital noise and updates on social media. Remember, your followers also need a good vacation. And then...
ParlaMint-DK_20210624142207	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 50 (V, DF, SF, KF, NB, LA and Orla Østerby (UFG)), against voting 37 (S, EL, Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG)), abstentions 8 (RV and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). The resolution has been adopted and is now being sent to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210624142238	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly Hall is Thursday 9 September 2021, kl. 9. Should it become necessary to call the Folketing for further meetings, notification of the date and agenda will be sent to the members in writing.
