ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5493	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you very much. I ask you to take the seats – and at the same time I open the 69. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 9 a.m. The official protocols of 67. 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting ==References== Meeting of 4. April have remained inconsistencies and without opposition, and are therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Dr. Bösch, Mag. Sima and Gaugg. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5527	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Otmar Brix has waived his mandate and that Mrs Mag. Christine Lapp was appointed to the National Council. Since the election is already in place and Mrs Lapp is present in the House, I will immediately make her fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new mandate will have to do its fishing with the words "I promise". I would like to ask Mr Mag. Schweitzer as a writer for the reading of the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5560	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5575	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5591	I warmly welcome the new colleague in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5618	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: First: Ms. Federal Minister for Public Performance and Sport Deputy Chancellor Dr. Susanne Riess-Passerwird by Mrs. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Forstinger. Secondly, Ms. Foreign Minister Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner was represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein. Thirdly, Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl Heinz Grasser is represented by Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer. Fourth: The Federal Minister for the Defence of the State Herbert Scheibner is the Federal Minister Mag. Headquarters. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5663	We are now arriving at the current hour, the subject of which is: Social integration and immigration First, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. Mr deputies, the speaking time to justify the issue of a current hour is, of course, 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5694	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Throughout Europe, integration and immigration policies are currently being discussed in the field of tension between the labour market and immigration. That is why we Liberals have decided to make this issue the subject of the current hour today, because in Austria too, it is urgently necessary to discuss the development of integration in relation to the labour market and to discuss what the development of integration policy will look like in the light of future developments in the labour market in the coming years and decades. In this context, the motto and the government's guiding principle in immigration policy is valid, namely integration before immigration. That's the right line, that's the right way! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We must not make old mistakes which the Social Democrats made in the 1980s, for example, when we had better data, better figures on the labour market, in the economy at that time. That's what they called right now. Limitations, we'll get as many immigrants as possible into the country! And the immigrants have come. Today we have about 1 million foreigners in Austria, and we still have the problems that arose in the 1980s due to this great wave of immigration, problems which we have to solve, because most of these immigrants are not, as intended, moving into the labour market, but into the Austrian social system. And that was the problem of the wave of immigration that we have not dealt with until today, Mr Oillinger! This has been the crucial problem. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is to say, one needs principles and also intelligent solutions to develop the integration of immigrants and foreigners living here while at the same time restricting immigration. We need immigration, which we control restrictively within a quota, so that it is not at the expense of the Austrian labour market, but at its benefit. We also need to define integration in such a way that foreigners who are in the country should be stopped to take over the local customs in terms of language and also cultural values, to learn them accordingly, and to support them. And there are also better models of integration and immigration policy, such as the integration treaty we are proposing, which is currently the subject of the whole of Europe. There is already an all-party consensus in other countries on the form of the integration treaty, for example, interestingly in Germany between the rulers and the opposition parties, which is only about details. The principle of establishing an integration treaty that defines rights, obligations and sanctions for better integration of immigrants living in the country should therefore also be discussed accordingly in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Austria, the principle should be discussed that we naturally require immigrants to learn, for example, the language, the national language, in which case the German language. The German language is essential for better integration, for more work and also for integration into the labour market, and that is the basic condition that we want to create. The main problem with foreign unemployment, which is twice as high as domestic unemployment, is precisely the lack of knowledge of the German language. That is why we say: Yes, we can make it possible for immigrants to learn the German language and learn it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The former chairman of the SPÖ and still Doyen in the SPÖ, Hans Mayr, took part in the "profile" on 23 May. In October 1999 the following words were put forward: "Whoever can't do German doesn't have a chance in the labour market and can in principle only become a helper worker. That's bad for him too, we have to change that." - Quote. It must also change a new government. Hans Mayr is right, we must devote ourselves to this – even with regard to rising unemployment rates of immigrants in our country. In this respect, there are models in Holland, for example, and I do not understand this automation, this instant reflection, if you discuss such a model in our country, because then immediately from the left is shouted: Awesome, xenophobic, inhuman, despicable! [[Abg. Oils: Do not confuse apples with pears!]] But you should look beyond the borders. You should also do this, Mr Oellinger, Mr Van der Bellen, Mrs Stoisits. Look Once you have crossed the borders, look at Holland, where, for example, the government has already implemented this integration agreement. It is said in a report by the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" for example: Immigrants like in Holland. With an educational institution, a immigrant concludes a contract, then he receives instruction in Dutch language, social science and vocational orientation. After a year, he must carry out an examination. Those who do not regularly participate in the programme lose benefits. Among other things, fines are proposed, beneficiaries of social assistance should be reduced by up to 25 percent in the event of an unpunished absence, and, and, [[Abg. Oillingers: They don't get any social assistance at all with us! That's how it looks!]] So there is a whole sluggish of sanctions that are listed for those who are not integrative. I am also of the opinion – just as it has already been implemented in Holland – who lives here, but is not willing and willing to learn the language, who does not want to integrate and who does not want to work, of course has to expect that he cannot fall home to the social state all his life and Austrian pays for it, but he also has to face sanctions, such as shorter residence permits or a corresponding reduction in social benefits. That is the case in Holland, and that is the case. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Or, for example, we'll take the country of Berlin. There the country has already concluded an integration agreement. The core of the model is an integration agreement between the Land of Berlin and the immigrants, which includes mutual commitments. With us, if you propose something like this, you are immediately the enemy of foreigners, and immediately the old reflex – especially by the Greens – will be tried. I can tell you something: In Germany, there is a government commissioner for integration policy.A foreign Commissioner is called that which comes from the Greens and is called Marie-Luise Beck. She praised the Dutch model in a speech, in an interview in the "Süddeutsche Zeitung". The Green Foreign Commissioner in Germany honours this model and says that all immigrants who are here are bound by the law – under the law! – to participate in an integration programme. This is to familiarise her with the Dutch language, the working world and society, says Green Foreign Commissioner Marie-Luise Beck. - Well, that's right! You should ask your colleagues in Germany: They don't find anything xenophobic, nothing inhumane about it. This is the right model, and we should discuss it more precisely in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: What does Gaugg say about this?]] This is also the case in the SPD – because the intermediate calls are already coming from the SPÖ. I quote the German edition of the Financial Times: The SPD is also in favour of an integration agreement whereby immigrants, among other things, undertake to learn the German language. These are the right models! We must also link corresponding obligations and legal models with certain sanctions, my honour Ladies and gentlemen! This is urgently necessary. SPD, CDU, CSU, Greens and the FDP are for this. For example, the liberal omen number one, Rita Süssmuth, head of the government commission in Germany, presented this model of duties, rights and sanctions to Christians in the ARD three weeks ago. It is the right model. If we continue to develop this model, discuss it and find other answers and new ideas, such as the reintegration of older workers on the labour market or the intensification of rules of visibility, then any other discussion that you want, namely to open up with regard to stronger immigration, borders, and new waves of immigration that Austria can neither need nor tolerate, would be just as dangerous as it was in the 1980s. What we have achieved in recent months, which is almost full employment, excellent economic data, business settlements, would be threatened by a new wave of immigration and would call into question what was achieved. In this respect, the trade union, the ÖGB, but also the DGB, is certainly the same opinion. We're on the road right now, and you can't frighten us with your fright and your automatic reflex on our immigration policy at all. [[Abg. Leikam: What about Gaugg?]] We need new recipes, new ideas and not old reflections of the left. These are the models of the future that we want to present accordingly!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5813	On an opinion on the topic of the current hour, the Minister for Social Affairs spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5843	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. I would like to begin by forwarding a few things on the subject of today's current hour: I would like to predict that the Austrians, in terms of humanitarian aid, have done great things for foreigners both in the past and in the present. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that about 95 000 Bosnians have fled from the former Yugoslavia to Austria, of which 70 000 have remained in the country. They have received residence and work permits. Following the war on Kosovo, Austria has received many refugees and offered them the opportunity to accept the integration offers from the Austrian state. Austria has done more for refugees and asylum seekers than all other European countries. This is clear on the basis of the statistics and the figures available. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, and also the interested public that in the statistics of the UNHCR, printed on the SOS-member's website, and therefore certainly not influenced by the government, the number of asylum applications in Europe is listed and presented compared to the total population of 1998. These statistics show that 580 people in Austria have an asylum seekers. In Germany, there are 830 inhabitants, in France 2 670 inhabitants, in Italy 12 170 refugees. The pan-European average states that 1 310 people have an asylum seekers. In Austria – I can recapitulate again – one comes to 580 inhabitants. I believe that only these figures prove that what has been said by you, ladies and gentlemen, in intermediate calls, is wrong that Austria does not pursue a generous asylum policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: There was no call!]] I should also like to inform you that in the Coalition Agreement under the Internal Security and Integration Chapter, the Federal Government has agreed to give priority to integration over new entrants. The central question of comprehensive integration is the learning of the German language. They have heard clearly and clearly from the previous speaker that learning the language is not an Austrian nature, but in Germany, in Holland, but also in other comparable European countries, it has become the standard of European integration policy. Ladies and gentlemen! They know that the acceptance of foreigners in the Austrian population depends significantly on the extent to which they are powerful in the German language and how far they are in their conduct not only align with the Austrian rule of law and its framework conditions, but also recognize and contribute to it. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the figures for 1999, 2000 and 2001 are also interesting in this context. In 1999, 2 096 asylum applications were submitted, in 2000 there were 18 284, and from January to March 2001, 7 488 applications were already submitted, whereas, unlike the past, the most demanding nation are no longer the citizens of rest Yugoslavia and Kosovo, but from Afghanistan. During the same period of the previous year, the number of applications from January to March 2000 almost doubled, from 3,778 to 7,488. I should like to point out to you that in 1999 the Geneva Convention Recognition Rate in Austria was 49 percent, which is a Europe-wide peak. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the criticism of the inhuman attitude of the Austrian government, which is sometimes to be heard, is simple and simply wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to draw your attention from the Greens to the fact that, in December 2000, the Foreign Commissioner of the German Federal Government, Marie-Luise Beck of "BÜNDNIS 90", specified their ideas for an integration process. It wants to anchor integration support for new immigrants in the form of advisory services at language and integration courses legally. The visit to the courses is to be made binding within the framework of a contract model – a similar scheme as explained by Mr Westenthaler in his opening statement here for Austria today. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to point out that a recent study by Walterskirchen and Biffl on the shortage of labour in Austria has been published for the period up to 2005. I should like to remind you that in this study by Walterskirchen and Biffl, one of my views is quite sensible. One way to remedy this labour shortage in Austria would be to reduce unemployment by means of skills measures, second by increasing the employment rate for older people. Here, too, the European report on the situation and employment of older people has shown in recent days that Austria, with just over 30 percent of its employees aged between 55 and 65, is a clear conclusion in Europe. The increase in the employment rate of women was demanded by Walterskirchen/Biffl as well as by the end of the increase of qualified foreign labour force. In the context of the EU-East enlargement, quotas should be considered for key forces from the new EU accession countries. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks and months, the possibility of bringing key forces from abroad to Austria for the IT sector was also a strong point of discussion in order to remedy the shortage of the economy. I should like to point out to you that at the beginning of this year 4 800 such workers with IT skills were unemployed and, on the basis of the efforts made by all the jobs involved in this Republic, it was possible to employ more than half of these unemployed people with IT skills and thus make an important contribution to the performance of the economy in this area. I should also like to point out that the unemployment rate of foreigners in Austria is still very high in relation to all other levels of unemployment in Austria. As the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Generations, I therefore believe that it would be useful, first and foremost, for those foreign workers who are in Austria and who obviously do not find employment due to their lack of skills – as Walterskirchen and Biffl have observed in their study for many unemployed people from the country – to provide for post-qualification and higher qualification. This would be an important point to finally get under control this domestic unemployment rate, which is still worryingly high for foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that we also have an important need for reflection in the school sector. Over the last few years, we have made it quite clear, in relation to other European countries, that we have been able to carry out an IT qualification in the school sector, and I believe that the current action taken by the Federal Government to bring the Austrian schools online and, in the same way as the other European countries, to give our young people a chance in the future to become highly qualified and trained in these new technologies in the world of work, for one of the most important measures taken by the Federal Government in the field of education, in order to address this labour shortage for the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one reads the Wifo study on the scarcity of labour in Austria and if one considers today's discussion and the current number of asylum seekers, but also the practice in Austria, after some 13,800 asylum seekers who were seeking asylum in Austria at that time, 5 500 people did not await the outcome of their asylum procedure and have migrated to illegality, so that they are still on the black labour market somewhere in Austria or in Europe, then it is recognised that it must also be a task for this German government to take these workers out of the black labour market into legal employment and thus also to ensure the positive effects for health insurance and pension insurance, but also in the long term for the entire structure of the economy in Austria. The Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union Confederation have always taken action with their broadcasts for the urgent need to combat black work and black jobs in these areas in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that if I summarize that the Wifo study has shown a very useful and helpful order for this Federal Government: first, the reduction of unemployment by qualification measures, second, the increase in the employment rate for older people, the increase in the employment rate for women, and first the third and last then the increase of new workers, the increase of key workers from European countries or from neighbouring countries. As the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, I consider this order to be the only right and socially acceptable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5902	In the debate that has followed, the speaking time of all speakers is 5 minutes each. Mrs Silhavy is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e5927	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! With great amazement, I have heard the topic of the Freedom Party at the present hour: Social integration and immigration. The Freedom Party, which for years has been spreading hetzparols and campaigns against foreign fellow citizens and fellow citizens, thus trying to beat political profit, chooses this topic! Why do you think?, I thought. – Mr Westenthaler’s statements on this issue were very clear. You have shown how this issue was chosen in advance. Next, I thought: Yes, who of the members of the liberal government has any competence on this question at all? [[Call the SPÖ:No one!]] That's right! Nobody! That's the result. Nobody! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] FPÖ has neither content nor political competence on social integration and immigration. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He is a Social Minister and thus has to do with immigrants!]] Would you really have been an honest concern, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, you would have sent the request either to the Minister of the Interior or to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. But no, Mr. Federal Minister Chief must stand by for this. So it's a deception action or a justification strategy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you really believe that the Social Minister has nothing to do with immigration?]] There was no one of his areas of competence addressed by you. They have addressed the Minister of Labour, but not the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You should know what you yourself have decided in the Federal Ministry Act! Or are you overwhelmed with that? But similar to Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé doesn't seem to have learned anything from her election base in Vienna, obviously you too. Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé takes asylum applications – not what is decided in terms of permits, no, she takes asylum applications – in order to defend your anti-foreign and aggressive attitude. Mrs Haller came to the speaker's desk last autumn and said: We need more seasonal eggs, because we liberals have always called for this seasonal model!, and at the same time it recommends the unemployed painter to go skiing instead of three months, as she thinks, finally to accept a job as a housemaster. This is a horrendous thing, Mrs Haller. Mrs. Dr. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are just as weak here as you are on the subject of what you are giving in the debate today, Mrs Silhavy!]] Partik-Pablé, we'll see we're strong you. Whenever it comes to heating people up, you are particularly strong, but when it comes to doing something good for people, you hear nothing from you at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have had a thematic error in "the subject" and today too!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Speak slower and clearer!]] Mrs. Haller, that means that you either have zero idea of how unemployed people are going, if you think they can do three months of skiing vacation, or you're the handlers of those people in the economy who see people as a "cost place on two legs". - I'm afraid the latter is the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They feel that it is all about reducing the cost of the economy to the unemployed. And there, too, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler has already been out of here today, for he has said that the rules on visibility are tighter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Of course!]] And Mr. Haigermoser even went up to the statement: We must help those who have come into need involuntarily, indebtedly. Do you know what you're doing with it? – They mean that the unemployed are themselves guilty of being unemployed, or they are even subject to abuse. And that is contemptible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't operate with settings!]] The seasonal kidneys, ladies and gentlemen, fit exactly into your picture: six months' stay in Austria, paying into the social funds, but due to the duration no rights, no claims to get something from these social funds again. This is the reality of seasonal eggs, ladies and gentlemen: They are net payers, they get minimum wages, that is, they put the wage spiral down. But this is your human image, these are your true intentions, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, since the blue-black government there has been a leap in seasonal eggs, but at the same time unemployment in the hospitality sector is almost the same number? Can you explain that to me? – Because it is about reducing labour costs at the expense of people, at the expense of people for businesses, thinking purely business and increasing profit. That's simply a contempt for human beings! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is just as despicable as the taxation of accident pensions, it is as humane as your health tax by ambulance fees, it is just as despicable as the easing of the protection of termination in the setting up of disabled persons, it is just as despicable as the abolition of the carnage allowance and the introduction of a child premium, it is just as despicable as the abolition of co-insurance for women who cannot get children. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. It is a humane policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is no social integration and immigration for you, ladies and gentlemen, neither for foreigners nor for foreigners, because you seem to have lost any social competence if you have ever had such a one. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has addressed black entrepreneurship, but you are blocking in this House that we have the Black Enterprise Control Act...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6093	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6109	...that we are dealing with the Black Enterprise Control Act here in this House at all. I ask you to: Finally do something for the people and stop treating people cynically and inhumanly!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6139	The next item is Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6177	Ladies and gentlemen! The dilemma that is happening in the SPÖ, especially when it comes to this question, is that the representatives of the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour should not talk about this subject, but that, so to speak, only the second yarn may speak. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's already on the show... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] . You were just on it, Mrs Colleague, now let me speak. – One has clearly seen the position of the trade union in the "matter" mission. And that is clearly the position the government represents. Mr Deputies! I would have been pleased if you had come out today and here also expressed the views of the trade union, and not Mrs Silhavy, who has no idea of the matter at all, but can only speak quickly. But, Mrs Silhavy, speaking quickly doesn't mean saying the right thing. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is unheard of!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I join in the debate of our clubman, who stressed the line of government, namely integration before immigration, here again. I would also like to stress: Integration is not something to be done exclusively by the Austrians, but it is the main task of integration that foreigners have to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And this must also be seen by the people who come to Austria or live here. It is really paradoxical if there is to be a discussion here in Austria about how important the study of the state language is for someone who lives here, although one knows that the language is the basic basis of integration. [[Abg. Oils: But no!]] This is truly unique throughout Europe, and it is obviously only in Austria that the Greens and the Socialists propagate that we should not talk about the fact that immigrants learn German. I think you should really look at other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Silhavy, you really have no idea about this subject. You've already proved that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And since once again the call for skilled workers has become loud: I really believe that there are numbers played, depending on the function, depending on the position that the person holds that makes a report. This is similar to the enlargement of the EU. One speaks of millions of people coming to the labour market, the other says, no, he doesn't appreciate it so great. So you're in a room where only numbers are operated that have no basis at all. No one knows how many workers we will really need, for example, no one in Austria knows what should happen if economic downturn occurs if we now bring these 165,000 urgently needed workers to Austria. What are we doing with them? We will then send them to unemployment, which we will send to emergency aid? How do you actually imagine the future of these people? I believe that it is really necessary to address this issue more responsibly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You have the responsibility now! Then carry them too!]] Mrs Silhavy! I have always made a responsible foreign policy. You have no idea because you have not even been to Parliament when we called for a law on immigration in 1990. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You have the responsibility now, and you should carry it too!]] Go, go, go, go, go, go, You can really just scream and talk quickly, something else you can't at all. [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Your policy has always been... [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You don't need to teach us, Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] You teach us restlessly, but once I speak a lesson or tell the truth, you'll suddenly be outraged. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The economy – and that will perhaps be in your interest, Mrs. Silhavy – has to define what she actually means by "key labour force". What are the special qualifications that are expected of those people who want more and more in Austria? And what is one willing to pay for these people? People who have 15 000 s of income are certainly not the key workers I'm talking about. This is what I demand of the economy: It should take a clear position on this, and then we will see how this is going to continue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But one thing I would also like to say to you, Mrs. Silhavy, before you start yelling again: We do not want to repeat your missing immigration policy from the past. Always before elections, your politicians know what went wrong. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Listen to me! Please listen to me! Mr. Häupl, Mayor of Vienna, said before the 1999 National Council election, there are many...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6344	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6360	I'll be right there. – It’s the mistakes of the past that you have to wash out. Too many foreigners have been left in the country too long and too quickly resident. Unfortunately, SPÖ politicians always know it only before elections, and we want to remind you that such principles must always apply.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6396	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6417	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Integration and immigration – a topic that is worth re-government after almost a year and a half, is to be illuminated at an hour's notice because the change of trend, the principle of the government programme "Integration before immigration" bears first fruit and has ensured a fair deal with foreign immigrants and local people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Part of the integration is, of course, the ability to co-operate with each other, the language. I recall – I have not yet been a member of this House, but I have followed it closely – that, when Mr Grossruck came up for German-speaking programmes, he was even accused of xenophobia against foreigners, although this is an essential step towards integration. Another essential part, ladies and gentlemen, to participate in integration, is, of course, to have work and to make work possible. That is why the government programme, which we consistently implement, also says quite correctly: The integration of foreign citizens living in Austria must take precedence over re-entry. In the field of employment, foreigners already legally living in Austria are to be preferred. This, ladies and gentlemen, ensures two things: first of all, the willingness to welcome the domestic population – I myself am Vienna MPs and I know that in some areas of attraction there is skepticism and problems, but I have rarely heard criticism of the hardworking and living foreign fellow citizens working here; we must allow them to do so – and second, it makes sure that the labour potential of those in the country is used accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] There are new challenges. I read, for example, on Wednesday, 9. May: The SPÖ calls for more immigrants for the labour market. In this way, the SPÖ aims to counter future labour shortages. I thank you once for these headings, and you will be able to talk about the programme in detail. But when I consider that we have been accused of social reduction so far, of creating unemployment, I must say: This statement is the brightest confirmation of the labour market and hence the social policy of this federal government, which I have ever heard of the opposition. - Thank you many times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Two other areas of social integration: first: Living. As a housing policy, I also recognise that foreign citizens have different foundations for long-term settlements, for property formations, than for nationals. I do not understand, however, that someone who receives the housing contribution due to his work should not have access to social housing. I therefore call on the Vienna SPÖ to rethink and change its award policy in social housing, in terms of municipal housing, in the sense of the integration policy of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, the subject of elections. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever works here should also be able to choose his works council. I wish: even in trade union elections, but unfortunately there is no such thing as that; I too, as a domestic trade union member, would wish it to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there, ladies and gentlemen, where you are preoccupied that foreign citizens can also participate in bodies – local authorities, public law agencies – I say a clear no, as long as you prevent the choice of letters for very transparent reasons, which does not allow hundreds of thousands of domestic citizens to exercise the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6505	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. – You have the word for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6526	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As always, when Klubobmann Westenthaler spoke, it is necessary to make a correction first. It is not a question of assessment, nor of personal opinion – it is not his intention to represent his own opinion; everyone appreciates for himself – if he has just said here at the beginning of his speech: In Austria, a million foreigners live. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Statistics Austria – this is an institution that is probably not suspected of mentioning figures that would not be accurate – indicates the exact number of foreigners living in Austria: There are 758 024 foreigners who live in Austria, my dear ladies and gentlemen! Of these, 655 449 are so-called third-country nationals, who are foreigners who do not come from EU countries. And when it comes to integration into the labour market, it is this number that we are talking about first and foremost. The flat-rate claim: A million foreigners live in Austria!, shows how serious the Freedom Party is devoted to the subject of social integration and immigration as a whole. But not only this detail, which can be clearly demonstrated by figures and facts, as by the statistics of Austria, is something where completely nebulous things are claimed, but there are also numerous others. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the Minister for Social Affairs has failed to address the problems that are really going on here. However, he has long and broad quoted the Foreign Commissioner of the German Federal Government, who is a former Green Member, and I am very grateful to him for this because the Foreign Commissioner of the German Federal Government is actually addressing the problems that exist in the co-existence of domestics and foreigners – in this case in Germany, but not only there – as well. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I am very close to Marie-Luise Beck, when she says that an integration agreement – in this case in Germany, but this also applies to Austria – is a debateable idea, and when, like you, Mr. Federal Minister, and Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, she cites the Dutch example. The Greens are willing to talk about integration conditions, conditions and also the legal framework as it is in Holland fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is also necessary to know the situation in Holland. This is necessary to show you the legal framework in which integration in Holland is moving. First point: There is an anti-discrimination law in Holland – there is a lack of it in Austria. The government parties have not even discussed this, although there is an EU directive that binds us to it in time. Second point: There are so-called Equal Opportunity Commissions in Holland where it is important that employers can be brought to justice if they fail to fulfil certain conditions of the integration contract. Thirdly, there are gender equality plans in Holland, where minorities – including foreign workers – receive special measures, under quotations, "constant" – but in a positive sense – that they have to fulfil. Fourth point: In Holland, ladies and gentlemen, for example, there are very different conditions of citizenship than in Austria, periods of which we can only dream of in Austria. And citizenship is also an integration measure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When it comes to – and I come to the fifth point, but also just an exemplary one – that, as in Holland, there should be legal equality between the domestic and foreign populations on the labour market, in the social legislation, on the housing market, then we say: Yes, please. The Greens like to discuss a Dutch model in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I should like to mention the points that are very, very far away from the Dutch model. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6596	Please do not mention all the points, but only one as a final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6612	One point, Mr President, is that which is most important to me: The only country in the EU where family integration is subject to a quota is Austria. And that is why we are very far from a truly desirable goal in terms of human co-existence and the integration of foreigners.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6642	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6663	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's not long ago that in Vienna there was an election campaign. At that time, the Freedom Party, with a deep grip on the box of prejudices against foreigners, tried unsuccessfully to succeed. The top candidate, colleague Partik-Pablé, has worked with horror numbers, with wrong numbers, as you do of the liberals more often, today also Klubobmann Westenthaler. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] She has worked with interrupts – something else has not come into her mind today either. I remember councillor Amhof from the 9th century. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Your only cross-border beginner, Mr. Schumann, has correctly noticed that he feels comfortable in a "brown party". [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell me what he said! That was cynical!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The voters in Vienna have honoured this policy, the voters in Vienna have given you a massive land slide downfall – and you have really deserved it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I understand that this situation is now in your bones and that you are trying to simulate a change of course. They're trying to play a new role. In the last few days, Mr Westenthaler has been allowed to experience the role of the "Westenthaler im Schaffspelz", who tries to convey the impression of a change of course in integration policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: Every human being is an art that no one can do!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you just have to listen a little bit to notice: The opposite is true! Let us take your integration agreement. Mr Westenthaler, you are talking very little about rights, you are talking a lot about duties, and most of all, Mr Westenthaler, you are talking about sanctions. In reality, your integration agreement is nothing but a new title, under which you want to get people who don't fit you out of the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Just as you are talking about "social security", but nothing but the toughest social reduction, you are now talking about integration – and my exclusion, you want to do nothing but take measures for exclusion, but there we will set you limits! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us talk about the language, the meaning of the language for integration. The language has a very high priority for integration. Take Vienna as an example: There are large language offensives in Vienna again and again, there are courses offered to foreign citizens who accept them, which are even overflowing. You could offer a lot more courses. You don't have to force foreigners to attend language courses – on the contrary: They fad it and accept every offer. But how does the Freedom Party really stand for this? – If it had happened to you, after that, as your group voted in the Vienna municipal council, there would have been no language offensive, because your group, the Freedom Party, voted against any language offensive in the Vienna municipal council. This is your true face! You don't want integration, you want to prevent integration! – This is really to be rejected, and the invoice was presented to you for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! You have the opportunity, at the federal level, to show you that, unlike your Vienna colleagues, this is serious, but I do not believe in it, but you can take the proof of truth: Make available appropriate resources, launch language offensives, do what you have announced here! Let's talk about immigration. In its forecast, the Wifo has now identified the potential we need to cope with the situation on the labour market, and this requires targeted immigration. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about you now considering who we are graciously letting in or how many we do not need, but it is about urgent need of experts to drive economic development in certain sectors in order to drive prosperity in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] The international competition to get these coveted professionals into the country is great. They will be able to choose which country they are going to go to and prefer countries that signal them that they are welcome, and countries in which the government parties clearly signal that they are not desirable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All the measures we need to deal with this situation in the labour market – better conditions for women, better training measures, targeted immigration policy, world openness, better opportunities for young people in the education system – are a problem for you, everywhere you stand on the brake, and all that prevents you. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: End!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6767	The speaking time has expired!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6785	And the Austrians are now to be fined by working up to the age of age. In this regard, you are still in disagreement, but we will see which of the two political groups prevails: the alleged heart fraction or the confessing pain fraction. The population is already looking forward to this with concern.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6818	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e6839	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kuntzl, with her demand for labour migration, stands in stark opposition to ÖGB Presidents. He said in recent statements: There's no need for immigration. Getting foreign professionals to Austria in the short term is the wrong way. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who said that?]] – Vergestnitsch in May in the ÖGB News Service. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not what Mrs Kuntzl reads!]] I repeat it: Getting foreign professionals to Austria in the short term is the wrong way to make use of the reserves in Austria. – This means that we are in good freedom of association, because that is also our demand, and we will be happy to work with him for it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Ververtnich also says in this paper – ladies and gentlemen, let me put a new aspect to the discussion here –: Today there is a lack of training from many entrepreneurs, there are too few skilled workers. And he's asking for one. A balance between trainees and non-trained firms, thus promoting those enterprises that invest heavily in training young people. I can give my colleagues the right to make a statement on this call for compensatory measures, only then will it be necessary to create the appropriate conditions. However, the previous government did not create these conditions, especially in education policy – there were huge mistakes made, Mrs Kuntzl. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Tell the woman Gehrer!]] Now I would like you to follow my remarks so that we can discuss the whole thing. For decades the SPÖ-dominated education policy has misguided the student flows with the result that a well-functioning primary school in that country has been ruined. They have degraded the primary school to the "rest school" and made sure that today, in some parts of Austria, up to 90 percent of all 10 to 14-year-olds sit in the AHS, where the classes are overcrowded – you also complain! – and finally the universities are overcrowded with young people who are not willing to study. – This is a misguided education policy with negative results, all of us today, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Who remains, then, on the basis of this lack of education policy for the apprenticeship market, Mr Oellinger? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] You know, we know. And we can't suspect the farms when they say: These young people, who can't even read and write well, we don't want to train, we want qualified school leavers to train and not those who haven't even received the witness of this "rest school"! [[Abg. Oellinger: On the topic! On the subject! We don't have a school debate!]] That is why the education system must be reformed. I put to you a proposal from the FPÖ, which you can follow: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen from the left! Let us start a so-called forecasting process again so that we can control the student streams a little more meaningful and not in some areas so many students that we can only need some of them then. [[Abg. Oils: The wrong theme! Sweitzer, wrong theme!]] That is courage to the truth and politics for the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We should make the most of the resources we have. Youths should be trained in what they bring with them the best conditions. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Thema Miss!]] Upgrade of the primary school to a real school – a free proposal. Redesign of the Polytechnic School for the Year of Vocational Invention – Free Proposal. [[Abg. Oellinger: On the topic! A sentence on the subject!]] The beginning of a teaching only with a successful completion of the so-called professional invention year, but this year is the first vocational school year. – These are concrete proposals that we want to train young people before they are trained as skilled workers, and then – Mr Oillinger – that is the issue! – We do not need the immigration flows of foreigners you require because we can cover the labour market with qualified people from Austria. – This is the subject, Mr Oillinger, you just have to think a little more complex, not: Foreigners pure, and the problems are solved! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you're not thinking complexly. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Brosz.]] They always make policy for foreigners, policies for minorities, but not policies for domestics, policies for the majority. We are responsible for this – and that is why we govern and you are in opposition! That's the logical consequence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Eder: But not for long!]] With this proposal – and I would also like to hear the opinion of Mr Vergestnich – we could solve the problem of immigration once and for all when it comes to labour. I think it would be good to talk to the SPÖ about it because we need a two-thirds majority, and I am convinced that we can convince them of the reason for these plans. In this way, the SPÖ, together with this Federal Government, could make a useful contribution to solving the labour market problem, and we could put the demand for more immigration in order to have the labour force in the country to the final stage. – That would be in the interest of the Austrians, that is freedom of movement!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7024	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7045	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that we have very good economic data in Austria compared with all EU countries. This shows the latest EU study, which was only published in April. We also have a dense social network and great prosperity. Economic growth is 3.5 percent, which means Austria is ahead of the major countries France, England, Germany and Italy. As far as productivity is concerned, Austria has picked up very well. We have a low inflation rate of only 2%. With regard to the prosperity of the population per capita – GDP – we are very much in the top group. And Austria has almost full employment with only 3.4 percent unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! But we not only boast of these figures, because we want to make not only a policy of the present, but also a policy for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why this currently published Wifo study is such an important signal that it is important to change some political frameworks and also economic conditions. What does this Wifo study say? – In the next five or six years, from 1999 to 2005, 165,000 additional employees will be missing, in particular skilled workers and skilled workers, well-trained workers. It is important to think about what can happen in this regard. It's much too simple and far too primitive to say: We're increasing the draw rate. It is important to find much more creative and imaginative solutions. These more imaginative solutions are not only required by me, but the Wifo also makes appropriate proposals in its study. A working group which has already been used and is running on this issue within the economy also concludes that it is more useful to first exploit the existing potentials and only then, when they are exhausted, to increase the quota for the addition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are the concrete proposals? – A proposal is to keep older workers, who are over 50 years of age, in employment longer. The study says that if we were only able to achieve the level of this in the 1970s, we would already have 200 000 more workers. Of course, we also need to train these older servants accordingly. I would just like to mention a number: According to an estimate by the Institute of Education, the economy spends around 15 billion schillings annually on education. This is a very remarkable amount, and it is, if it is true, above what the AMS spends on employee qualification. It must also be said that the economy is already spending this high amount. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] For example, we have been doing German courses in our company for years for our already Austrian, but often still foreign-speaking employees – even if they do not need them, even if they are only workers on the band and, so to speak, do not necessarily have to speak German. But we're doing that. We also have a bilingual employee newspaper. Of course, we do this beyond the normal training of our employees. Since the training of employees in the company is such an important factor, it would also be desirable if there would be tax advantages. Another possibility would, of course, be the reduction of the duration of training, because the young people would then be in employment earlier. And it is also important to train women in the new professions. Finally, I would like to focus briefly on the issue of women. I believe that it is important or, in line with the Wifo study, an important factor in bringing more women into employment, even if they are in Karenz. In this respect, the ÖVP's proposal on "renewing children's money" with the high possibility of self-employment certainly offers a very great opportunity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One word at the part-time career: This is always hailed as if it had been the best way for women to combine employment and care. Of the 78 000 car payers in 1999, only 2 300 were part-time. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolute flop in connection with family and profession. I am sure that in the future we will be much more involved in facilitating the link between family and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7149	The next speaker is Mr Karl Ollinger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7173	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I start with an example that says a lot about what it looks like in this country with integration ahead of re-entry. A woman, who lives here for 20 years, studied medicine in Austria, graduated with a diploma. Mr State Secretary, you know what is happening: This woman is not allowed to work as a doctor in Austria, although she is trained at an Austrian university, without any problems, without impeccably completing her studies! No way to work here. Don't we need them? – Of course we need them at a hospital. There she also works, but not for a regular salary, but by 4,000 s as a guest doctor. This is the way in which this country uses people who live here, who work here for 20 years, who work here, who live. This still belongs to the Austrian system and Austrian model. If you say, ladies and gentlemen, that integration is a new move, then I must resist this: That's where the chickens laugh! The chickens laugh, that's not true! One untruth after another! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll tell you what it looks like: For decades there have been several classes of employees – domestic, foreign. The foreign are divided into several classes: Employment permit, work permit, exemption permit, special rights for one group, even less rights for the other group – but certainly not equal rights. Certainly not the same rights! Foreign workers, migrant workers do not have the same political rights, workers' chamber elections, works council elections. They are not allowed to vote in municipal elections, either, because the ÖVP and the FPÖ believe that there could be a Turkish district leader. That would be terrible! What is already being practised in all other European countries and no one is tearing off the stockerl there is terrible in Austria. A Turk in the Works Council, a Turk in the Municipal Office. – We can't live there anymore, we don't feel comfortable anymore. That's the reality! I would like to say something about your untruths about integration before re-entry: No equal rights in the social field, family benefits, unemployment insurance, living. Indeed, not even in tax law, where you have to give the same rights, migrant workers are the same. That's it! If the two family parties ÖVP and FPÖ talk about the blessings of child benefit, they would like to forget that the family allowance for children living abroad has been completely removed from the work of migrant workers, then they forget that the child care allowance will still not be given equally to foreign women living here, but, of course, there are restrictions to that. Where are the same rights for people living here? They refuse them. Mr. Westenthaler spoke of Holland and said – and there he laughed – that if someone refuses integration, we could cut the cost of social assistance. Yes, Mr Westenthaler does not know that in Austria foreigners in most of the federal states do not even have a right to social assistance and that social assistance is also reduced to zero for Austrians if they refuse to do so? On zero and not like in Holland by 25 percent! – These are your realities, ladies and gentlemen! Now we're on our way to immigration. I've already told you: There are no equal rights in the inclusive area. Let's move in. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that in several applications you have called for unlimited withdrawal of seasonal kidneys. In order to reduce the amount of money you want to employ seasonal eggs in an unlimited manner – in addition to the quotas available to regular immigrants. That's reality! I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7254	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7270	... that it is obvious that you can live very well with black workers, as has always been said by a number of freedom-loving top politicians who have employed them in their businesses. Same rights for all, only in this way we come a bit forward!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7305	I declare the current hour ended. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7326	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to those in the meeting room of the National Council according to § 23 para. 4 communication distributed by the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7807	I announce that before the Green Club enters the agenda, I would like to see the self-employed amendment 430/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Pilz and Mr Comrades on freedom of the press and the freedom of expression. This urgent request will be made by 3 p.m. on the basis of the provisions you all know. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7831	I should also like to say that Mr Dietachmayr has requested that the Financial Committee report on the motion for a resolution 387/A by Mr Dr. Gusenbauer and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, a period of time until the 5th century. ==References== In this context, there is also the desire to hold a short debate on this deadline request. With a view to examining the urgent request submitted for today's sitting, the short debate will take place following the debate on the urgent request, the vote on the request for a deadline after the end of the debate. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7858	Ladies and gentlemen! I have a request, according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure: To take the Constitutional Act on the conclusion of the Treaty of Nice at first reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a first reading. – It is so unanimously assumed. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7891	I would also like to sum up the debate on points 5 to 7 and 10 to 13 of the agenda. On the other hand, are there any objections? – Since this is not the case, we will proceed in this way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7915	I shall now go into the agenda and tell you that the Presidency meeting of the Council on the duration of the debates in today's session has reached as follows: A day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 156 minutes, liberals and ÖVP each 116 minutes as well as green 92 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I'm asking: On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. It is then decided unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (428 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Import, Export and transit of War Material and the Arms Act 1996 and adopting a Force Residence Act (555 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e7951	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There is no wish for oral reporting, so we are going into the list of speakers. Mr Kostelka is the first speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8013	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Before the referendum on Austria's accession to the European Union, all the politicians in this country have indicated that EU membership and neutrality are compatible. Seven days before the vote in 1994, then Minister of Foreign Affairs and Deputy Chancellor Mock declared that neutrality was fully preserved even after accession to the EU. The then Minister of Economic Affairs and today's Chancellor Schüssel confirmed a few months after accession to the EU: Neutrality is neither ripe for the tabnacle nor for the Recycle Bin! Ladies and gentlemen! The policy of today's federal government, not least with this federal law, is in stark contradiction with these confessions. Mr Khol once said – quoting –: "The truth is a daughter of the time." Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of security, go one step further. They seem to assume that the interpretation of constitutional laws is a daughter of your political desires. This federal law is an example of this dual strategy, whose only objective is to erode neutrality. But you don't even have the courage to confess this openly and honestly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This will become clear if, in addition to the law, one begins to read in its first part the Security Doctrine presented to the House at the same time. Delete in this Act Although all the quotations of the Neutrality Act are out and they are fleeing into the gay concept of international obligations, in the Security Doctrine you clearly say what you mean. There on page 60 it is to be read that the neutrality of the political price to be paid by Austria was in order to regain full sovereignty in 1955, that neutrality also hinders Austria's extensive participation in European integration, and that the Federal Government – to read on page 64 – has therefore come to the view that neutrality is no longer relevant in the European context. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Security Doctrine you clearly declare your intention: Neutrality has to be gone. The motivation to remove the neutrality quotes from the War Material Act is thus declared. But in the law itself, as already said, you do not have the courage and honesty to say that clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All of your interpretation skills, ladies and gentlemen, will not conceal the fact that through a simple federal law you cannot eliminate or undermine neutrality. You have of course also to take into account the Constitutional Act in the implementation of this law. In this context, I must point out to you that the seeming simple-law skill in the War Material and Force Residence Act cannot call into question the constitutional authorisation. In this context, it should be pointed out that in the next few years, we Social Democrats will bear in mind, with all due regard, that the law of neutrality is fully respected in every act of implementation of this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy will use all its legal and also political means to ensure that the right of neutrality and the neutrality of our constitution will continue to be respected in the future after the adoption of this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Neutrality Act contains three parts: First, not to wage wars, second, to keep the Austrian territory free from foreign troops, and third, not to join any military alliance. With this law, you try to keep track of the concept of alliance freedom and to limit and push back the first two elements. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, you should point out: You won't succeed! I'm not saying you want to wage wars. But what you want, Mr Khol, what you want to ensure by this law is participation in military interventions without UN mandate. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (a brochure holding high) Stand in there!]] – And that forbids you from the law of neutrality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you want to ensure in this way is that, as in a NATO country, there will be a military stay in the future in Austria. – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this also forbids you from the law of neutrality! Neutrality cannot only be defined politically. Neutrality is a central law of this Second Republic. Swiss philosopher Burckhardt once said: "History serves to be wiser for another time and in rare cases forever." [[Abg. Großruck: But this applies to everyone!]] Austria has participated in almost every war on this continent over the last 200, 300 years. For most Austrians, therefore, the Neutrality Act is a confession of the "Never again!": Never again to try to enforce political intentions with force of arms! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this law, you are not only in conflict with the Neutrality Act, but also with this confession of the Austrian population. They do not do any good either to the land or to themselves. Let me therefore conclude by saying: They say in the Security Doctor that neutrality is no longer a function today. Therefore, from my side the urgent call: Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Federal Minister, please fill her with a function! The fact that she has one has proved not least the end of the Yugoslavia war. Only if you have a neutrality-political activity will Austria become profiled and the reputation of our country in Europe will rise again. I'm asking you to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8120	The next speaker is Mr Jung. The clock is set to a voluntary speaking time of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8141	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Kostelka's contribution to the debate has already shown that it is less about this law today, which offers relatively little or no reason to criticise it, but rather about a fundamental debate. We like to record them too. If it is to be managed, Mr Kostelka, then we really have to go to the bottom. Then we must not just scratch on the surface as you have done in your speech. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have demanded courage and honesty. I will remind you of a number of points from the Social Democratic past when it comes to honesty. Colleagues In the debate on the SOFA agreement, Schieder has made a similar remark to that I am now making, saying that the SOFA agreement has also become a bit the victim of a proxy war. This is also the case in this law. My colleague, Mr Schieder, found something more later, and very probably warning, because he knew exactly and at the time knew that this SOFA agreement, which you have concluded under the Social Democratic Chancellorship, is going a long way further. Just look at the size! There NATO has been able to confirm every point in which we have resigned rights in Austria at the time, every single point and addition – you have signed that at the time, not we liberals, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You said at the time, well-knowing where it is going, Mr. Schieder, that a great power like America is obviously much less willing to comply with regulations. You are very right with these statements, but apparently you did not find much hearing in the SPÖ at that time. They have been satisfied with a simple declaration of principle by the International Law Bureau. That was too little from our point of view. We liberals also voted against it at the time, because we saw the rights of Austria far too little. Today, this contract is concluded – Pacta sunt servanda – and we stick to it. But we were those who warned about it, and not the Social Democrats! At the time, they removed Mr Karlsson and some others who were apparently at risk of expressing a different opinion, even from the committee, although they were in there otherwise. You knew exactly why, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The Force Residence Act, which we decide today, is a children's game compared to the SOFA agreement. I will prove that and justify it. Already § 1 para. 2 expressly says: "The stay includes crossing the border, temporarily staying in and leaving Austrian territory." – At no time does Austria give up the right to say no to such a stay. It is quite different in the SOFA agreement signed by the Social Democrats. There a termination is not even possible in the case of war without expiry of a period of time. Mr Kostelka, how about your neutrality? Where were you at the time when it was about signing this agreement? Where was your conscience, your neutrality at that time, Mr. Kostelka? – I really wonder. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] This NATO troop statute allows NATO forces – it's a staging agreement; it's not a transit and export agreement like this, but a stationing agreement, in which even the NATO state of Denmark refused as the only one to accept it and sign it in this way, because it went too far – with this agreement we allow the transit of foreign forces, armed forces, with ammunition, with the possibility of legal access to their own people, to the relatives of these people and, under certain conditions, even to Austrian citizens, including arms use, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! – It would be good if you listen now and not just kick. Become another You say again that you did not know anything about it; as you did then, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You always remember very selectively what you once decided – when it comes to the truth. All of this has been allowed, and Mr Cap then accused us of being "difficult in principle". Where was the "principlelessness", ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is Mr. Cap today?]] Where's Cap? – He is currently learning the Rules of Procedure. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler:... Liesing?]] The current legislative proposal explicitly demands that all obligations under international law be respected and that the interests of the Republic be respected. It's no comparison at all to that time. [[Abg. Edler: Say what's in Liesing!]] What did Mr Gusenbauer say about this request at the time? – He said he was going there at the time: "Austria, in my view, has, in a reasonable way, expanded its form in relation to these cooperation possibilities" – at the time he called it that NATO was given free way through Austria – "not closed" and thus clearly underlined his willingness to cooperate. Ladies and gentlemen! I told you at the time: "It's not about a send-off agreement for exercises. This would have been done without a doubt with a standard contract. We have nothing against an agreement that goes on... But not in this mogel pack, and not under these conditions, where the death penalty is introduced, without saying it to the Austrian, in which the Austrian Constitution is bended – if not even broken – as far as neutrality is concerned, just because you are too cowardly to start the discussion with the Austrian citizen." Let's start the discussion now. As I have already said, Mr Arbitrators have expressed themselves on this subject, but with obvious discomfort, we must say that fairly. I do not want to go further, because I also have a different position at the time – I say this openly and honestly here. At the time, we liberals represented a NATO position – but I expressly say that we did so at the time. Now we have learned to do so, a lot has happened since 1997, 1998. Last but not least, Europe is now considering its new position and its new responsibility. We now have the opportunity to participate in a common security and defence policy from the outset. NATO is no longer the only alternative and possibility for cooperation that it was at the time. We are starting these days to bring about the future Security Doctor. We want and should do this together and honestly. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! What Mr Gusenbauer said at the time when he wanted to bring us into the boat for the SOFA agreement should apply. He said: "Let us agree that we are trying to lead this debate detemorationally. Let's not assume that your own position is 100 percent of the only possible and" – remember when you're talking about neutrality! – "as the only Austria to keep from war and secure peace, but that we have been in a security-politically flexible situation since 1989, in which individual states take different steps with a goal of creating security, peace and stability in Europe." Mr Gusenbauer added: "This is a discussion that can be conducted in a reasonable way. At the end of this process, if there is a majority in the House, I think the Austrian people should be involved." – We'll sign this whole thing. Ladies and gentlemen! Take to heart the words of your own – at the time he was not yet – chairmen! Let us speak seriously and rationally about this matter. There is much to be done in the field of security policy. We should take it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8244	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. The clock is set to a voluntary speaking time of 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8266	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The term "swivel" plays a major role in the military command language. He obviously also plays a major role in the military command language of the Freedom Party. That's exactly what we should discuss today. In the Internal Committee, which discussed the War Material Act and the Force Residence Act, nothing was yet recognizable from the important security policy swivel of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Boy: Then you didn't watch!]] There it was called: Out of neutrality, so-called international organization – is now NATO. One thing we should discuss now, because today it was first expressed in this clarity: The security and military consensus within the Federal Government has been announced by the Freedom Party. The position of Austria to join NATO has for the first time been publicly abandoned and announced by the Freedom Party after several elections. We are in a new situation in security and military policy. We must now discuss how things continue. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But it took a long time!]] How does it go if the Federal Government no longer has a clear international security policy objective? I personally doubt that the Freedom Party has come to a military and security-political sense. In fact, there is little sign of this. I simply believe that the genuine or proposed party leadership is able to interpret results and surveys on the approval of neutrality in a meaningful and intelligent way. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's what you call "serious debate"?]] If one loses one choice after another and no longer knows how to get out of the government trap, then a swing to the two-thirds majority neutrality may appear opportunistic. This is not yet a neutrality policy, it is not yet a new security policy attitude, but it is already a broken consensus in the Austrian Federal Government. The positive thing is that it opens up the possibility of even discussing the security and defence doctrine in the Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee in a more open and subject-oriented way. We are faced with the question, which is quite simply: Where is Austria to find its international security and military place in the future? There is a proposal from the Austrian People's Party, which the Freedom Party supported until a few weeks ago. It is said that Austria is to enlist its forces to a military alliance under the command of the United States of North America. Austrian military policy is to be determined by the US President and his Minister of Defence within NATO. This is a classic satellite system for which the Austrian People's Party is constantly making reasons such as solidarity, not kickboard and so on. The alternative is to determine its own position in the creation of a European security policy. Anyone who is seriously concerned with European security policy – and after changing course, the Freedom Party will be forced to do the same – will know that in the European Union only and only the question will be discussed is what kind of Petersberg tasks should be carried out by which states and members of the European Union. There are hardliners, conservative forces who say: With the highest, the hardest Petersberg tasks, as far as possible the military interventions – and there are forces in particular in the Freedom Party who say that – at the next lightning war, under whatever command, we want to be there, if the next time Iraq is bombarded, then an Austrian catcher must fly behind, otherwise we can no longer be proud of ourselves and our comrades! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's still feverish!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Today again a fever attack!]] We say that the problem in Iraq is not the lack of the subsequent Austrian interception hunter, but the lack of an international consensus on a peace, security and human rights policy in this region. We are looking for the Austrian role right there, and there we will have exciting discussions around the doctrine. In development, many, although not all European security experts agree, will probably find that states such as Austria are more in favour of solidarity and police action at the lower edge of the Petersberg tasks: preventive, conflict prevention actions, conflict prevention, human, social, legal and police assistance, but in most cases the rather rare, hard actions. I am glad that this debate begins. Nevertheless, because for some reason my previous speakers have not been interested, I would like to say a few words about the war material law. Ladies and gentlemen! Much of what is in the not very wide innovation is not unreasonable. There is, however, one point to which I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for the Interior and to which I would like to publicly discuss with him the possible consequences of his action and his presentation. The agreements signed by the Republic of Austria – the Wassenaar Arrangement, the EU Code of Conduct and the UN list of arms – have clear reporting obligations. These are reporting obligations, which include reporting on each piece and on each country of destination in detail. I called on the Committee not only to inform the European Union, not only the UN and not only the Wassenaar bodies, which are based here in Vienna, in detail, but also the Austrian National Council. I now have an amendment which reads as follows: In the first six months of each year, the Federal Government has to return to the Foreign Affairs Council, of which we do not know how long it will continue to exist, an overview of the summaries and communications submitted in the previous year. That is to say, the reports sent to the EU and the UN in Vienna to the Wassenaar Office, for example, will not be sent to the Austrian National Council. He will only get an overview of the summaries, and this may then be: Exported tanks and rifles to different parts of the earth and reported them properly to the three organizations. – The current reports are of this quality. Federal Minister! I would draw your attention to one thing without personally wanting to put anything in your mind. Ministers of a very different kind have made reporting obligations decided by a majority, or non-reporting obligations and secrecy. They had reasons for this. The reasons were the ongoing and future concealment of war material exports in difficult areas. If you want to prevent economic and political leaders who speculate on grey zones and in grey areas from finding themselves in a committee of inquiry in the future on charges and on the chair of witnesses, then only one: maximum transparency and open and complete information from the Austrian National Council. I do not have the slightest understanding of the fact that what the UN, Wassenaar and the EU naturally get from Austria and the Minister of the Interior will abstain from the National Council. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you feel that you do not want to do so and that instead of being open and transparent, you want secrecy and concealment of war material exports, I will ask you – for example, Mr Klubobmann Khol; They also have a lot of Committee experience and some of the common transparency promises behind them – at least to be based on facts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8408	So that there is no confusion: The amendment tabled by Mr Pilz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. That amendment, on which he referred orally to the explanatory statement, has not yet been tabled, seems to have been communicated between the political groups, but will only be submitted. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Speech time: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8435	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today it is a decision to amend the War Material Act, which will allow the Austrian Government to carry out the obligations of the Federal Constitution, Article 23f, that Austria can participate in peacekeeping, peacekeeping and humanitarian actions of the European Union. And we welcome it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is another law which shows that since the adoption of Article 23f of the Federal Constitution in 1998, it has been the subject of Austrian neutrality and is replaced by solidarity in the field of the European Union. We welcome that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The history is interesting. – And with this I am dealing with today’s swan singing by Klubobmann Kostelka. [[Cheerfulness to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have article 23f on 18. In June 1998 it was decided. The Federal Constitution states that Austria participates in the European Union's common foreign and security policy and that this explicitly includes participation in the so-called Petersberg tasks, i.e. maintaining peace, peace, humanitarian action and disaster protection through the European Union's decision. - That's in the federal constitution. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The proposal is motion 791/A, and it is expressly in it. That was an initiative proposal in this House, and what do you think is signed by whom this initiative proposal? Guess! Who was that? [[Deputies Auer and Ing. Westenthaler: The Kostelka!]] It was Peter Kostelka, you're right! [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I quote from the report of the Constitutional Committee – and who signed it, ladies and gentlemen? [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: The Kostelka!]] You guessed it again. That was the "Graf high and proud of Ross", as it is called in the fairy tale; here he is called Peter Kostelka. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] "This amendment is clarified," writes Peter Kostelka, "that Austria can not only participate in measures of the common foreign and security policy on the basis of the Maastricht Treaty..., but can also fully participate in the so-called Petersberg tasks introduced into the EU Treaty by the Treaty of Amsterdam.... In accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam, this also applies in the event that such a measure is not taken in the implementation of a decision of the United Nations Security Council." That is to say, Peter Kostelka made it clear at the time what he said today, which he no longer wants to know: that such peace-making measures, of course, on the decision of the institutions of the European Union, are to be done on the basis of our federal constitution. - That was Kostelka. But there is another sentence: "On the basis of the changes to the Treaty of Amsterdam, it will also be necessary to make appropriate adjustments to simple legislation (§ 320 StGB, Federal Act on the Import, Export and transit of War Material). - Who, do you think, signed that? [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Kostelka!]] Of course, Peter Kostelka. That was the year 1998. However, there is also the text of a government program between ÖVP and SPÖ, which did not come about. But the following sentence was negotiated – and you will certainly be able to answer the question with whom this sentence was negotiated –: War material law-Novelle: "The Federal Government will become the National Council until 30. In June 2000, a proposal was submitted for the amendment of the War Material Act, which was still necessary in the wake of the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam. It shall ensure that Austria can participate in all peace operations carried out by the OSCE or within the framework of the CFSP with its own contributions in addition to the existing possibilities of participating in UN peace operations." What do you think: Who signed this? [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Kostelka!]] Peter Kostelka. [[Abg. Großruck: The Public Prosecutor!]] [[Abg. Kiss: I'm sure he can vote for it today!]] He can't vote today, because: What he said in 1998, what he said in 1999, what he said in 2000, nothing more applies. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a classic case of a Salto backward of SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is the Salto back to orthodoxy, the Salto back to the period of the Cold War, the Salto backward from the solidarity of the European Union! This is the premise of a group that is increasingly suffering from Profile Loss and Memory Loss. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But that's not surprising, because what does Col. Cap say? . I have here the debate on this Article 23f. What does he say? – It has a reason why Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer are not here in this very important neutrality discussion. You don't like to hear it when you read the pre-punishment register. It's not that easy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mr Schieder! Where's the new officer?]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: I'm not the folder!]] Mr. Cap said in the debate on 18 November. June 1998: "I recognize myself as an interventionist foreign policy, a political-interventionist in the sense of peace, peacekeeping, peace-making, and so on, and finally, if it does not go differently, if all means are exhausted, also militaryly enforced." And then he goes on to say – a wonderful golden sentence: "One last point I consider to be very positive" – said Josef Cap on 18. June 1998 – "is the merger, the union of the EU, WEU and ultimately – one must say that – NATO." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That was a good sentence from Josef Cap. But he who once was a creative hope is full of salt: Salto to the back, Salto to the past. This is just an example, ladies and gentlemen; we have experienced several these days. We have, for example, experienced the loss of memory of the Social Democrats when we have decided on a pension reform that has been negotiated in broad detail with them, and they have voted against it. Why? – Salto return to the fundamental opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have experienced more in these days: Mrs Gehrer proposed that a school agreement be concluded between parents, teachers and pupils on how they would manage the regulatory issues in school. Delegation to civil society is that, delegation to the agreement of those concerned. This was agreed a few months before in a negotiated paper between Minister of Education Gehrer and the Social Democrats. ==References== This was agreed on in January 2000 – but it is no longer true today. Fundamental opposition. More rights for parents and students are no longer valid, but: Salto mortale back into the office cap, especially when it's red. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I could mention a lot of things, but I don't, because there's still a second memory loss. Ladies and gentlemen! It gave a wonderful editorial of a journalist in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" in the 1999 neutrality debate. He applied the "Dual Lottchen" by Erich Kästner to the Federal Chancellor and wrote by the "Dual Viktor" – that is the one who is now in Argentina. And what did this journalist, Alexander Burger, write at the time? He wrote: There must be two Viktor climate. One which contributes to solidarity in Europe at European meetings, including on matters of common interest. Foreign and Security Policy, and then there is another vector climate in Austria, who doesn't want to know anything about it anymore and says: Neutrality over everything. - That was the "Dual Viktor." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I note that the Gusenbauer SPÖ has not done this. If the Social Democrats meet when they discuss security issues, then of course our Social Democrats are fully committed to solidarity. This is the case now in Berlin, where the Schröder's ideas for a Europe of the future have been fully confirmed and supported with great tones. And what's in there? [[Abg. Kiss: What's in there?]] That's what it says: "The Europeans' role in alliance and a stronger EU security role will be strengthened by NATO." [[Ah-Rufe with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] "The transatlantic partnership remains the basis of our security in Europe. NATO remains the key political and institutional bracket for the Euroatlantic community of democratic states." – This fully supported Gusenbauer in Berlin. Here the "Double Alfredchen" now speaks of neutrality. This, I think, underestimates the willingness to accept and the cognitive capacity of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And what was decided in Berlin? – The Berlin Declaration: Safety in change. – With the voices of the Social Democrats, of course. What's in there? – "The common foreign and security policy is in line with the needs of the new Europe and with the conditions of globalisation under which the European Union can only assert itself by acting jointly. ... We need a coherent European Union action in international organisations. The European Union needs to develop a comprehensive security approach with the CFSP, which includes political, military, economic, social and environmental elements and takes into account the whole range of needs for successful crisis prevention and... military crisis management. Close cooperation with the United Nations and the OSCE and NATO is necessary." That is what the SPÖ in Berlin is signing, and here it is voting against a law with which we have proposed exactly what the SPÖ itself requested in 1998. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, you're suffering from memory loss. Viktor Klima is in Argentina, Alfred Gusenbauer is not here.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8657	Mr Kostelka spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please take note of the time and Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Dr. Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8681	Mr Khol, you have also quoted the 1998 Committee Report. Wrongly quoted, who is not fully quoted. In this context, they have expressed the sentence that, in line with the Treaty of Amsterdam, this one-off measure will also allow for the implementation of measures which are not guaranteed by the United Nations Decision and the United Nations Security Council. [[Abg. Kiss: But this is now freely interpreted by you!]] What is essential – and this is the double strategy and also the insincereness – you have omitted, namely the clamp expression afterwards. In fact, it is expressly stated: "(Art. 51 of the United Nations Statutes).' [[Abg. Steibl: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Further calls.]] Read the United Nations Statutes! Article 51 relates exclusively to...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8735	Mr. Dr. Kostelka! In the light of the last debate in the Presidency, I should like to ask for the external form of an actual correction: the facts to be corrected and the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8750	So I'm actually correcting: As so often, Mr Khol is not complete and therefore incorrectly quoted. This has to be noted several times in this context. Mr Khol, that is dishonest!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8789	As Mr Khol was personally involved in the final part of the actual correction, he has the right to a personal response. – Please respect the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8813	I quote again literally, as I have quoted it before: "In line with the Treaty of Amsterdam, this also applies to the case", including without a decision of the United Nations, "that such a measure does not apply in the implementation of a decision of the Security Council of the United Nations (Art. 51 of the United Nations Statute).'
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8849	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e8870	Mr President. Mr Strasser! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. What is it about today? – Today it is about the new Force Residence Act and about a novel to the War Material Act. And what do you want the novels to do? – It is intended to enable Austria to show solidarity with the State community and to support military action, not only the United Nations, but also the European Union and the OSCE, and to do so even if such measures are taken within the framework of an international organisation to avert a humanitarian disaster or to prevent serious and systematic violations of human rights. The permit of military transits, overflights and war material exports is, I admit, a sensitive matter. The government template therefore contains a whole series of chewings, ladies and gentlemen, such as the consideration – and this is very important – of the international obligations and the vast interest of Austria or the fact that the stay of foreign troops in Austria may, of course, be temporary. I also welcome the clarification that has still been made in the debate in the National Council's Committee on the Interior, namely: Force transits and war material exports may only take place if no weapons are carried with them whose development, production or use are prohibited under the Austrian legal order. This refers primarily to ABC weapons, but also to anti-personnel mines and blinding laser weapons. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is also true that the law allows for the support of NATO operations, for example by granting transit and flight permits, but only within the narrow limits of the law, i.e. either in the case of actions under a UN Security Council Decision, an EU Decision or an OSCE Decision, or when another peace operation is carried out – but also in accordance with Paragraph 2(4) of the Force Residence Act, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations. I think it's important to hold that down. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to focus very briefly on a number of points of debate. – Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All European states have recognised that security can only be paid and guaranteed in conjunction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You know that too! Not least because of this, the 15 EU Member States have decided to make troops available for EU crisis management and to work towards the harmonisation of equipment and training. I would also like to make this clear, Mr Pilz, that: In NATO, decisions in general and in particular on military operations – and you know that very well, just don't say it here – are taken in consensus! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That's completely wrong!]] That's very important! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Completely wrong!]] - Of course! That means – hearing [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] Please! – even if such operations are carried politically, there is no obligation to participate in military action. This is a clear example of Kosovo's use, as only twelve of the 19 NATO members were involved in it in military terms at the time. I should like to remind you that Greece as a neighbouring country, for example, has carried this decision very well, but has not participated in the military. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Is there a veto right?]] I believe that this too must be said clearly to the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) Learn history!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Is there a veto right?]] It's very short on neutrality. You know that with the accession of Austria to the UN in December 1955, we have already removed ourselves from the model we had chosen at the time, namely the Swiss neutrality, as a result of our ever-active neutrality policy. So even then the adaptation started. Second point: During the Second Gulf War of Iraq – Kuwait, 1990/91, Austria has established that the obligation to implement decisions of the United Nations Security Council to take precedence over the obligations of neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But that was a hot discussion back then! I've seen them myself!]] As a result, overflight and transit permits were granted on the basis of the Security Council resolutions. Thus, the Federal Law on the Entry, Export and transit of War Material and § 320 of the Criminal Code, namely the risk of neutrality, have already been amended at that time. I think you have to say that, too. However, it has not only changed the concept of neutrality, but also the legal parameters. Then, as you also know, the most obvious change in Austrian neutrality with Austrian accession to the EU came on 1st. In January 1995, when we adopted the Maastricht Treaty and its provisions on a common foreign and security policy. I do not need to present to you Article J.4, in which the perspective of a common defence policy, which could lead to a common defence in due course, has been opened. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: If we had known that...!]] And this was, of course, accepted by the Austrian voters during the referendum. Article 23 of the Austrian Constitution has already been mentioned, so I do not want to address it in detail now. The following Treaty of Amsterdam, on which Austria has already contributed as an EU member and which you of course have ratified in Parliament, calls the gradual establishment of a common defence policy a goal. This Treaty also strengthened the institutional links between the EU and WEU and also took over the so-called Petersberg tasks of dealing with crises – including "fights for crisis management, including peace-building measures" – in the area of the common foreign and security policy. On the basis of the ratification of this Treaty, the National Council has revised the above Article 23f once again. I shouldn't have to say that either. Ladies and gentlemen! I must mention that, for example, the claim that neutrality is no longer relevant in the EU context, for example by the constitutional lawyer Professor Mayer in one of the APA on 16 May. Januaryen, but also Professor Öhlinger, was legally supported in his comment on the Neutrality Act. Professor Öhlinger points out that a state that has committed itself to a cooperation with a particular group of states on issues relating to foreign and security policy, which in the longer term also includes the definition of a common defence policy that could lead to a common defence, can be, in a strictly legal sense, "nothing ever-increasingly neutral". [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser:... change the laws of God Thank you not yet the constitutional jurists, but the parliament!]] Professor Öhlinger goes on to say that it would therefore be more precise to speak of a mere "unscrupulousness" – and that is also mentioned by the already present analysis of the new Security and Defence Doctrine to be developed. Last point: Despite all this, ladies and gentlemen, it is undisputed that the Federal Constitutional Act on the Neutrality of Austria is still in force formally. The commitments contained therein, namely that Austria does not join any military alliance and that it will not allow the establishment of military bases of foreign states in its area, correspond exactly to the limits of alliance freedom, which can also be read in the comment I quoted Öhlingers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9040	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to start by reproducing the claim to be corrected and to compare it with the corrected one.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9064	Ladies and gentlemen! These are two statements made by the Foreign Minister. First, I'm going to give the first one, namely, her explanation: In NATO, military action can only be decided by consensus. – Consensual obligation includes something like a veto right of the individual state. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She didn't say that!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's fevering again!]] It may be the desire of the Foreign Minister to hold a meeting of such a kind as: President Bush says, we have to intervene, and chancellor bowl says only about my body, and the NATO military machinery stands... [[Call to the Freeman:Redeem contribution!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She didn't say that!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: New fever boost!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Turn off gas!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9154	Mr. Dr. Pilz! In the light of the last presidency, in which your club was also represented, may I ask you to really comply with § 58 of the Rules of Procedure concerning actual corrections!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9181	Regarding this first statement, I do indeed make the right point: There are no such provisions in NATO's statutes, and decisions are made not only de facto but also de jure in NATO in a different way – de facto practically at US command! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She didn't say that!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Brinek and Dr. Martin Graf.]] Secondly, The Federal Minister has stated that the law of neutrality is "formal" in Austria. – In fact, I reply and draw attention to it: The Neutrality Act is not only formal in Austria, it is also in force in terms of content, and it is time for the members of the Federal Government to start getting used to it slowly again. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Wire’s eahm å!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9258	Deputy Pilz! We have also discussed in the Presidency that actual corrections which do not call for actual claims can lead to the withdrawal of the word in the next presidential term. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser:... Government agreement!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's not healthy yet!]] As the next speaker, Mr Arbitrator is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9317	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Khol announced his thrust on television last night. He has already cited today's debate as an example of the fact that the opposition parties, in his opinion, are operating a fundamental opposition rather than being prepared for a material and constructive work. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You took good care!]] The law and today's votes will prove exactly the opposite. And the Committee's deliberations have already proved this, because in the Committee's deliberations we have drawn attention to the fact that we do not explore the fact that this proposal brings certain improvements, removes bureaucratic hardships and also brings about a satisfactory expansion, because it also deals with the mediation of arms transactions. [[Abg. Leikam: There was the Khol yes...!]] We were so constructive that we drew attention to the mistakes that have been made to you and that we have proposed to repair these damages, so that the law does not suffer from the fact that the new conciliation section does not apply in certain areas, does not include criminal sanctions – and much more. What Mrs Minister has today welcomed in a very nice way of dealing with his own political groups as clarifications from the Committee, these were not clarifications from the Committee, but that will be today's ÖVP/FPÖ request, with which these two political groups, on those points in which we had to bring to the Committee, to the Minister, that a sensible law is being made, prove the late understanding of this, are now presented in an amendment. [[Abg. Young: What are committees there for, if not, to talk about it?- Oh, my God!]] Through our work – through the work of the opposition! – this law, which we reject in many respects, is not impracticable or impracticable at least in detail and innovations, but would have been the case if we had not worked so objectively and actively! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What bothers us is that this law shows itself very clearly – twice clearly! – the dual strategy of the government and the government groups. The first strategy is to undermine neutrality, to keep us from doing so, it was not so much because it was hollowed out. [[Abg. May. That's what you've done!]] The second strategy has shown itself clearly here also in the differences... [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] – You can talk afterwards. Don't yell like that! This too has been stated in the presidency that it is not good for Members to shout in that way. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (hand-receiving) May I ask a question, Mr. Schieder?]] The second part of your dual strategy has been clearly seen in the differences between the contributions made by young, Khol and the Minister. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: War materials transit law!]] The one thing, that is, young, doesn't have - even in committee - literally, I'm going to bring it up properly now: Don't worry if neutrality's not inside anymore! It is a constitutional law, it applies anyway, it is a international obligation, it applies anyway! It does not need to be explicitly mentioned, and even if it is deleted, it does not matter because it continues to apply! The other ministers, Mr Khol and Mrs Minister, are directly celebrating that there is a change here, because this will also make use of international organisations and Europe – in brackets, which they do not say: also NATO – with this simple law possible, which they welcome, so do something clearly different than they have stated in the Committee. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the point where we do not want to go with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not want neutrality to be removed from this law. We do not want, as we have clearly stated in our minority report, laws to be passed on the one hand, which supposedly do not change anything about Austrian neutrality, but then it is claimed that Austrian neutrality would have long since hollowed out, that we are no longer neutral, because of which one could completely abolish neutrality and join NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democrats in Austria reject this process of the gradual abolition of Austrian neutrality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We continue to support compliance with the Federal Constitutional Act of 26. In October 1955, Austria was given freedom over the neutrality of Austria. We are in favour of solidarity, we have always been in favour of solidarity. But we are in favour of neutrality and solidarity!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9475	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9496	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate you as a colleague who doesn't forget anything and knows everything, but in this case I have to help your memory on the jumps. They have agreed with a government partner to pass through various war materials laws. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Unfortunately yes!]] They have granted over-flying permits to warring parties with a government partner. You have approved a number of decisions here in the House of Armed Forces, and you have finally also agreed to this SOFA agreement. And all this has led exactly to the opposite You are now asking, Mr Schieder, to undermine neutrality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have opened the way here as a government party, but today you act as if you had not been there and put this child away. For child care, Mr. Cap, let's come again, I warn you. Previously, I have to deal with colleagues Pilz, who, after a long illness, apparently gets fever attacks again and again at the speaker's desk. I wondered why he was so opposed to NATO, and I found it. There was once a request that dealt with the STASI contacts of Peter Pilz. The answer of the Minister of the Interior is very interesting. We couldn't really let these STASI contacts light up because the reply of the Minister of the Interior was – I quote –: "Austrian security authorities shall, in principle, only receive documents or information from the "Federal Commissioner" by means of formal assistance." - That's the Gauck authorities. "Neither the accession of Austria to the European Union has resulted in any change in this respect, since Austria still does not fall within the scope of the ‘combined’ law referred to in § 25 of the ‘Stasi legislation’. As such, only member states of NATO are considered." - Quote. Now I know why Mr Pilz is so opposed to NATO, because then you can look into the STASI-acts and probably learn a lot about my colleague Pilz! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: You have a simple mind!]] Mr Cap! So mushroom has at least a reason to be against NATO! I'm not clear with you. Your safety policy swivel, Mr Cap, now as a new club chairman is not as easy to understand as is the case with colleagues Pilz. [[Abg. Oellinger: A simple mood, Mr Schweitzer!]] You did. In June 1997, there had to be a re-evaluation of neutrality, because it had been interpreted as non-recognition in recent years – by the SPÖ. You're on the 26th. June 1997 said that the continuation of neutrality – Mr Schieder, that was Your new chairman! – be no solution in the medium term. ==References== In July 1997, Cap confirmed its pro position. Now it becomes exciting – I quote –: For Cap, NATO is currently clearly developing from an exclusive military pact to a peacekeeping or peace-building facility for dealing with regional crises. And that's why, according to Mr. Cap, on 16 September. It is important to consider accession not only for reasons of solidarity, but above all because of the expected security gain. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was that?]] . As far as Mr Cap, the new president of the Socialist Group, was concerned, on 16 April. ==References== [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have to be careful! If you keep quoting that way, he'll be a popular lawyer!]] 25. February 1998, Cap: NATO must stay the target! And then it happens – 29. April 2001: Cap is against Austria's accession to NATO! Platsch! Crashed – but Klubobmann! All right! If one no longer adheres to one's own opinion, which one has formed over a long period of time, so if one breaks with one's principles, then one becomes Clubobmann in the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then you'll be Klubobmann at the SPÖ!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is an "ideal" condition for the performance of this office: Throwing principles overboard – and thus becoming Clubobmann of a fundamental opposition! That's how I introduced myself, so do the Austrians. Pepi, you're unbelievable on this question! [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] You are a hard-working marathon runner, you have brought it at quite respectable times, but because of this development you have nothing to show you to believe as a clubman of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But not at NATO!]] I believe that, on this issue, only the line of government policy, which has been perfectly presented by Mr Khol, is the right one, and there is no longer too much to add to it. The security policy under Strasser and under Scheibner is an excellent one on the way to a European security system – that is where we belong! – with all rights and obligations. In connection with the Security Doctor, we will still discuss what this will eventually look like. The direction is right, the government is on the right path. – Mr Cap, in your place I would go here and say what the motivations were – or you take your hat and still become a popular lawyer!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9666	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9688	Ladies and gentlemen! The current debate on this draft law has not in vain become a very strong debate on NATO and neutrality, even though Mr Jung has stated in his statement that these changes have very little to do with the question of neutrality. [[Abg. Young: Today's!]] – I said that. This finding is already much more differentiated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It clearly cites what these new regulations mean by further steps towards NATO and the erodement of neutrality at the end of the day. "More steps" – I say that very consciously here. The Foreign Minister did not simply refer to the accession debates we had before the vote on accession to the European Union. For this reason, it has not referred to it in vain, because – and this has to be blamed on the ÖVP and the SPÖ in particular at that time – contrary to what was stated in the documents, the population, which has still been very strongly oriented towards neutrality and at that time, had to do with it, an EU accession would essentially not change the principle of neutrality, of the Constitutional Law. It is quite clear in the files: Austria is going to the European Union as a neutral state, so Austria is going into marriage as a virgin. – What happens then is well known. Now, however, this story continues. The tradition of gradual erodement of all that makes up neutrality is not only being continued by this Federal Government, but is even aggravated. They have taken one step after another, which calls into question neutrality, and we have already seen today the same trend that has taken place in recent years, including the SP: What happens in Austria, when you approach NATO, is impoverished with flakes, such as the one that decisions were already in consensus. A state which sees itself as neutral can only lean back, so to speak, and say: Now, do what you want, I don't do it completely or not at all!, but otherwise the whole process goes on. - Please, let's not make any illusions about it! The second illusion, which is being spread here, is the creation of a European security system. Yes, that may be possible and the case in the future – and I say, in the future – and that is why we also need to discuss a security doctor and the conclusions to be drawn from it very well for Austria, but until now – and I remember the visit of the US Minister of Defence, to his first contacts with the European NATO partners – it has been clearly shown where the Bartl brings the most – at home – who has the saying within NATO: The European partners do not have that independence or the possibilities that are now to be presented to us in the presenter. It is simply and gripping to note a dominant position within NATO, which is once again intensifying under the Bush administration. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this regard, to spread illusions among the population, I think I am not responsible and also counterproductive in a debate on a security doctrine, in which you call for dialogue from the government parties, but are not prepared to conduct this dialogue fairly. This is to be criticised, and we are criticised, and we will not release you out of our responsibility either. On the new regulations in general, it is to be said that the opposition was ultimately required to clarify – whatever was done by the Foreign Minister – that the obligations of international law must always be examined, so to speak, and that this also includes neutrality. Unfortunately, the amendment, which has been announced and has already been quoted by Mr Pilz, has not yet been tabled, I hope he will still come – perhaps he has already moved into some paper baskets in the meantime – because I think this is already a very necessary step and I am glad that at least this has happened. Finally, let me point out the following point: The reporting obligations, as they are to be claimed under current rules, that the headings of the headings are communicated to Parliament as well, are, of course, unworthy of a parliamentarianism, a democratic state. Parliament has to be informed in detail, in full and in time, and not only five years later. I believe that this is one of the basic prerequisites for a fair deal with each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9731	Mr Kiss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9753	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Our clubman Andreas Khol has presented the SPÖ's so-called pre-punity register in a brilliant manner in connection with this legal matter: the War Materials Act and the Force Residence Act in the example of colleague Kostelka and the example of colleague Cap. – Never became clearer, as doublingly, how doubling SPÖler argues, when they are in government on the one hand and hence in responsibility when they carry out fundamental opposition from the banking series and still feel the phantom pains of the government farewell. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We would not have debated this issue in Parliament today, if ÖVP and FPÖ had not jointly submitted a deadline proposal, because the chairman of the Committee on the Interior has so far refused – certainly under pressure from Kostelka and Gusenbauer – to put this matter on the agenda of the Committee on the Interior. With a deadline application until 9. May we first had to force the SPÖ to sit down with us at the table, discuss this matter with us – and now we finally have it in plenary as it is our mission. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which took place on 19 November. In April, there were interesting opinions. Two of my previous speakers – Mr Arbitrators and colleague Pilz – were those who said the following, and I quote because I have contributed. Mr Schieder! They said – literally: "A lot of good is contained in these laws." You also said: "Neutrality is to be assessed differently in the course of the decades: Now you have to explain them differently than 50 years ago." [[Abg. Arbitrators: I didn't say the word "interpreting" but otherwise everything!]] Thank you. They have said at the same time that the SPÖ line is now one that reads: No participation in wars! – May I ask you, Mr Schieder: In your opinion, who in this House is in favour of Austria participating in wars? Do you think that a khol or a Westenthaler or a pillow or a sweater is for wars in which Austria participates? They also said: No stationing of foreign troops on Austrian soil! – Do you believe that all of us in the government are talking together now, so that only foreign troops are stationed on our ground? Don't be so naïve! Admit that this is nothing other than phrases, but word caves, and the SPÖ horror propaganda emerges. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Pilz has said – he has repeated it in plenary today – that in these laws there is much in it, which is not unreasonable. He also noted that there were undoubtedly concerns in the Committee's discussion – presented by the Greens and the Socialists – which, of course, we are not only presenting in an amendment proposal, but also showing that we are interested in a consensus on this sensitive issue. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall therefore make this request immediately at the beginning of my speech. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I have been told that this amendment has not only arrived at you, but that you have also been prompted to distribute it, and I would therefore only like to comment on the cornerstones of this amendment, which read: We, Mr Schieder, are, of course, grateful for your professional advice – and I do not agree to say this: these were technical notes in the Committee on the Interior, which required me to have respect personally. I do not think that this is a compliment to you, for example, that intermediation with war material, which is on the high seas, must also be included in the authorisation requirement. – A concrete accusation from you that we are putting forward with this amendment. And it has been my colleague Pilz – and I also do not want to say this in the plenary session of the National Council – who has mounted: If we're already talking about ABC weapons and the A weapons are standardized, how does it look with the bacterial, biological, chemical products, with those weapons that are sensitive products, sensitive materials? – In this context too, the justification for the amendment takes exactly that direction: We want all the weapons, all the genera to be standardized with them, and the fears as they have suggested to my colleague, Pilz, are obsolete. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to present the political assessment of this subject in the last part of my statement. I have repeatedly asked you, Mr Kostelka, the question – please give me an honest answer! – why you and Klubobmann Khol, together with Klubobmann Khol, submitted an initiative that provides for the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty in 1998 – and the resulting changes of course. We have decided with two-thirds majority, as Mr Khol has already argued in brilliant form. You have so far not answered me in your speech or in the Committee on the Interior, nor in my explanatory statement in Parliament, when I tabled the request for a deadline. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You didn't listen! That's the problem!]] – I have listened closely to you, Mr Kostelka! You have not explained this my question with any single word. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Oh yes!]] No, no, no, No, no, no, I'm gonna have to prove to you the following: You refuse, you are unolidarian, you "water" in the truest sense of the word! You do exactly what I mentioned at the outset: In the government responsibility, you were willing to go along a little bit of the way – the right way we are going as the current government coalition – but out of the opposition role you say: no! – This is a SPÖ salto backwards, just as Mr Khol has said! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Kostelka! If the European Union is a Community project if the common foreign and security policy – including a common issue, a common desire – is to be regulated in a consistent way with the European Union, this Community needs solidarity; that solidarity, which should have been one of the cornerstones of solidarity within the SPÖ, may still be, but will not be lived in connection with this law on the part of the SPÖ. I simply reject and simply reject unolidarian behaviour, a behaviour that has no place at the back of the EU's community of values today! – This is my accusation to you and to your attitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How can you be opposed if the EU Code of Conduct provides for humanitarian measures, Community humanitarian measures? How can you be opposed if we call for joint rescue operations? Why are you opposed when it comes to peace-keeping and peace-making measures? – Come on Get out of here, explain this to me! You haven't done this until now, but you've always gone into the fog of neutrality, threw waterthrowers, foglights, nebula grenades to weigh the population in uncertainty. But with clear, clear words you never went to the public in this sensitive matter. Mr Kostelka! To conclude: They devour this subject, which is a simple legal issue, permanently with the Security Doctor, argue with "The Exploitation of Neutrality"; Cap will do this in connection with NATO. . I say that, in this context, not only do we need to discuss the Security Doctrine, but these two laws – the War Materials Act and the Force Residence Act – must be regulated as simple legal regulations under the Treaty of Amsterdam, which you have initiated in this Parliament in an own-initiative proposal. To remember: ==References====External links== January 2000 – the pink paper that will always hold you to Col. Khol – have She said: Yes, we have to do it, we have to fix it! Just now, in opposition, it sounds different, and that's my accusation to the SPÖ: You are doubly, you do not argue in the sense of this country and thus of the Austrian security and defence policy, you make fundamental opposition, and we reject that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e9878	The request made by Mr Kiss in his key points by Mrs Kiss, Mr Jung and Mr Comrades is also submitted in writing and sufficiently supported; he is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, this request is also accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10045	Mr Strasser, Federal Minister of State, spoke on behalf of the Government Bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10067	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Col. Foreign Minister! These novels to the War Material Act and the Force Residence Act will bring greater clarity, increased transparency and, above all, greater security for the citizens of Austria; for the citizens of Austria, but also for our employees in the various resorts – also for those 40 gendarmen from the district of Leibnitz, who are following this debate here at the gallery. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This innovation creates the long overdue clarity and transparency – and also the long-overdue additional security. Discussions about this have actually been under way since the Gulf War. At that time, an endless debate was started, which was re-tryed on the occasion of the accession of Austria to the EU and which was also tried again in 1998, precisely with the well-known "result". Ladies and gentlemen! It is part of the restructuring package that this Federal Government has carried out and which we have addressed in our place of business, so that precisely today these legislative instruments could be presented to the House for discussion and decision-making. High house! I would like to mention eight points which are crucial in these two materials. First: This will bring about a reorganisation of competence; four Federal Ministries are currently involved. – We have taken away the hearing by the BKA: In the future, the Ministry of Defence will hold this hearing; so far, agreement has only to be reached on this. However, the examination of legal criteria, in particular the human rights situation, will of course continue to be the responsibility of the Foreign Affairs Council or the Constitutional Service, in particular in sensitive cases, as has been the case so far. Secondly, There will be increased attention to the EU Code of Conduct. The participation of Austria in humanitarian tasks and rescue operations, in peace-keeping and peacekeeping measures under the Joint Action This fundamentally redefinition of foreign and security policy; War material transport through our country, particularly in connection with the implementation of CFSP tasks, is thus made possible. However, all international obligations must also be taken into account in the case of decisions taken by the UN Security Council, decisions taken by the EU, the OSCE or other peacekeeping operations. Thirdly, International reporting obligations on approvals and refusals have been established, in particular with the Secretary-General of the United Nations or with other EU Member States. Of course, the transmission of this report to the Foreign Affairs Council, to which the members of the National Council's main committee belong, must be complete, as can be seen from the statement of reasons on the number 4 of this amendment. I can quote from this: "This ensures that information, which is provided to international bodies, is also available to national bodies...", full knowledge, ladies and gentlemen. Fourth: War material placements. Almost all of these transactions fall through the adoption of this regime of the War Material Act. Fifth, you open a bottle It also regulates the extermination of isolated light weapons from the stock of the Austrian federal army. What the Force Residence Act is about, there are finally rules when and how to allow the movement of troops to and through Austria. For the first time since the war, there is now a legal basis for the treatment of such requests. Seventeenths: A clarification has also been made regarding ABC weapons. Eighth: Clarification was also made in the Weapons Act. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all those involved in this legislative matter, especially the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministry of State Defense and the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, for their excellent cooperation with the officials of our ministry. And I would also like to thank the club members Khol and Westenthal for their excellent work and cooperation, so that we can discuss this today and here. And last but not least, I would also like to thank the members of the Committee on the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to clarify my basic understanding here again: I do not believe that the meetings of the Committee on the Interior are a protocol matter, but it is a matter of finding the best common approach and solution in a reasonable, good and critical debate between government proposals and Parliament's ideas. I should therefore like to thank you here for the very, very constructive proposals from the Committee on the Interior, proposals which have or will still be found in these legislative instruments. I would also like to thank the honourable Member for his constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10167	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10187	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! As Mr Kiss here criticised the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, Mr Leikam, that he did not put this item on the agenda: I would already like to stress that our conviction should first be debated about a security doctor, a proposal that is now in a subcommittee – and then legislation based on that doctrine should be passed. That's how the horse is stumped from behind, dear Paul Kiss! [[Interlocutory call for Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Now, laws are being passed that actually build on this doctrine. That is why it was perfectly justified that the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, Member of Parliament, has not put it on the agenda. – You of ÖVP and the liberals have enforced themselves with your majority and thus operated a stowing of the horse from the back. Federal Minister Strasser! These 40 gendarmen – if they are still sitting up here on the gallery – will certainly be less interested in the war material law, but these 40 gendarmen actually have great concerns about your policy. These are certainly concerned about whether their posts will be preserved, whether they will be transferred or not, or what working conditions they will find in the future. And these 40 gendarmen certainly want to know at last: Are the overtimes taken away from them as you plan? Are they taken career opportunities, as you, Mr. Minister, are projecting; and: What will happen in this area in the future? That's what interests these 40 gendarmen, ladies and gentlemen! That's why it's really happening! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: You don't believe that yourself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] High house! We see these novels of the War Material Act and this new Force Residence Act as a step towards the abolition of neutrality, which was mainly because the term "everlasting neutrality" was deleted in the law. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] We Socialists consider the War Material Act in the old form as a bulwark, an integral part of the Neutrality Act. And the removal of both references to ever-increasing neutrality is, in our view, a clear signal for the objectives of the two government parties ÖVP and FPÖ. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has confirmed this directly, but she has very clearly expressed her support for a freedom of alliance here, and that is, in fact: Well, you can change the freedom of alliance when you're out of alliance, because you want to go into an alliance. – That you want to go to NATO has been clearly expressed! And the Foreign Minister also considers neutrality, so to speak, to be a formal right. This, ladies and gentlemen, confirms how you intend to deal with Austria's neutrality by the government parties. We from the SPÖ are against a collapse of neutrality, because we believe that Austria as a neutral state can use much better in terms of peacekeeping, in the role of the mediator, but also in the provision of troops or police forces for peacekeeping and the reconstruction or construction of state structures. And Austria has also gained great recognition in the past with this policy. High house! This debate by the Minister of the Interior has already been very interesting, but the Minister of the Interior has also mentioned that there will be simplification and that the participation of the Federal Chancellor and other bodies could now be eliminated. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] – My conviction: This is a very sensitive foreign policy, and the current war material law includes the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Council and the Federal Government. In any case, we Socialists believe that this change will result in a concentration of power at the Ministry of the Interior. Until now, very balanced consensus arrangements have been possible in this respect – and now it is true that by simplifying and accelerating procedures this will be at the expense of foreign policy quality, but for the benefit of arms trade and the arms industry. I really can't understand why the Minister of the Interior should be able to assess politically difficult decisions, but unlike the Minister of Foreign Affairs or Economic Affairs, he has no informants abroad. And in fact, in the discussion in the Committee, I had the impression that German Minister Strasser only understood the significance of this decision that he would have to bear the main responsibility for all the transport of arms that goes to, out and through Austria in the future. I wish the Minister of the Interior much luck with this! And we will see whether this "simplification", as the Minister of the Interior emphasized earlier, will actually prove to be such. Among other things, ladies and gentlemen, this ruckzuck Legistics, which has changed its course, also shows that there has obviously been a mistake, but this innovation will also include mediation transactions in the authorisation obligation. However, one has forgotten to supplement corresponding criminal provisions in the event of a lack of authorisation. Therefore, this new authorisation obligation is completely non-punitive and worthless. But that may have been the victim of your "speed kills". That is why, Minister of the Interior, I would ask you to make it clear whether you really want to do so or whether you have just forgotten it. – Now, at least, this is a totally toothless instrument! Ladies and gentlemen! At any rate, I consider this FPÖ/EIA amendment now tabled to be an attempt to achieve constitutional conformity in this regard, at the last minute. We Socialists, however, see that this is not strong enough – and that all your actions and statements are going towards hollowing out and discrepancies disassembly of neutrality. – We cannot agree with that! We therefore put forward a motion for a resolution on the question of making it clear that the neutrality of 1955 also means for us: no participation in wars, no accession to military alliances, no foreign military bases on Austrian territory! [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10335	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Kostelka, Mr Parnigoni and Mr Gaál is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Ing. Count's word reported. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10362	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear young visitors to the gallery! It is now about a subject that comes out again and again: neutrality. The neutrality will be hollowed out, the neutrality there no longer exist, you said from the left side of this house. – I mean, it’s really time to say about it, in the course of a reconstitution of the total: There are still Potemkinian villages, which are now beautifully slowly and in a row, and one realizes that there is nothing behind them. You should think about what was done. And what is that? – The Austrian population has agreed to join the EU with 67 percent of the votes. There were the Amsterdam Treaties, and this is now to be fulfilled. Those commitments that were made at the time must now be fulfilled – and nothing else is going on in these laws that are now under discussion. Mr Scheibner has already said quite clearly several times, most recently in the ORF "press hour" that a change to the Neutrality Act is not a debate. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Don't get to the debate! On the other hand, you have, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, on the 27th. March 2000, here in plenary – I quote literally –: "I recognise all the decisions we have taken together, including the decision concerning the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Committee report which bears my signature..." – citations. And nothing else is done here! Therefore, I do not understand your excitement regarding a "outcrowding of neutrality"! So what is being done – the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Interior have clearly and clearly explained this here: The Treaty of Amsterdam and the measures introduced in the EU Treaty now regulate, in the area of common foreign and security policy, measures to fulfil humanitarian tasks, rescue operations and peacekeeping measures and combat attacks in the context of crisis management. – Nothing else is about it! I believe that it is necessary to judge, even if there is a matter of fact and not of emotions that are carried outside. – At any rate, I can agree with honourable Member’s arbitrator that it will make a sensible law. I would also like to thank the Committee for its suggestions on legal standardisation in relation to the transit of biological, chemical and nuclear weapons, for the fact that this is also being halted. Ladies and gentlemen! A Green amendment has been tabled here by the Greens, which covers precisely with the amendment already tabled by us by the Government parties. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] Yes, I do! Look This is what you're trying to do, please. For example, in paragraph 1a you can see an equal amount of coverage. We can therefore only invite you from the Greens to accept our request! Again: It is about the implementation of the essentials of these Amsterdam Treaties – and nothing else! The best thing is to read the text of the law. What is it about? – The import, export and transit of war material constitutes a decision of the Security Council or of Title 5 of the Treaty of the European Union; the same is true of OSCE decisions or other peacekeeping or peacekeeping operations. – No word of neutrality being eroded, removed, or anything else. It is about fulfilling contracts, contracts that you have entered into by the SPÖ itself. This is the factual basis for these two laws! What happens to the Force Residence Act: I only remind you of our joint visit by NATO Secretary General Robertson, through which you have granted the SPÖ that our country will cooperate with NATO in the areas of humanitarian aid, "Partnership for peace". And nothing else is going on! The permit of a stay of foreign troops in our territory is always due to: Decision of the Security Council, Decision of the Treaty of the European Union, Article 5, Decision of the OSCE or participation in other peace processes. I would therefore like to ask you from the opposition to come to a clarification on this issue! – It is not really a question of abolishing neutrality, it is not, as Mr Pilz said, about any "blitz wars" to be brought into Austria, nor is it about the fact that, as Mr Mister Pilz said, the security policy of the Republic of Austria should be subject to an American Supreme Command! – No word of that is true! It is only about meeting the requirements of the Amsterdam Treaty, or actually meeting the additional requirements of the OSCE, which you decided to comply with at the time. In conclusion: I can only appeal to you - from many of your group's speeches - from the statements made by your colleague Gaál: Security policy is not suitable for party-political hack! There is the need for a European Defence Doctrine to come to a European identity, as Mr Arbitrator has said. You said that at the Officers' Society in Graz. The item on the agenda now being discussed is the implementation of the basics you created at the time. I mean, it is urgently necessary to come to an end – and not to fall into a negative euphoria in relation to neutrality! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10475	Mr Gaál is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10496	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There are improvements, clarifications, and there is also a need to clarify how you have referred to this, Mr Federal Minister and Mr Collaborator Schieder – but not only. In fact, the war material law with this novel, as it is present here today, has lost its function as a bulwark of neutrality. Liberalisation in the authorisation procedure in the case of war material transport ultimately only helps the arms industry, but is at the expense of human rights and neutrality. [[Abg. Murauer: Where?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future the consultation of the Federal Chancellor is no longer necessary, that it has been abandoned and that the approval procedure is no longer examined by the Constitutional Service, so the Constitutional Service is also disabled. In the past, the Constitutional Service has in the past prevented the export of war material to countries in which human rights have been violated. This possibility has now been eliminated, there is only the obligation to provide information in the future. – Our consent cannot be found! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, I am disturbed that in § 3 of the War Material Act, which regulates the conditions of authorisation for the introduction, export and transit of war material, the term "with regard to the ever-increasing neutrality of Austria" no longer occurs that this will be eliminated. This is justified by the fact that this term could be "misunderstandable". – I should like to point out that since the decision-making of the War Material Act, this term has never been misunderstandingd and has always been observed. For me, too, this right to decide is proof of further disassembly of Austria's neutrality. First example: In Section 1 para. The temporary stay of foreign troops in Austria is addressed. It can take a year, ten years or 20 years. I find the "explainations" addressed by the Federal Minister in this context too inaccurate, too inaccurate, because the law on military residence does not in any way limit the duration of the stay of foreign troops in Austria. The fact that it will not only be a temporary stay of foreign troops in Austrian territory also indicates the establishment of telecommunications facilities and constant military exercises of foreign troops in Austria under § 4 Z 9 and 15. All this, ladies and gentlemen, speaks for the unlimited stay of foreign troops in Austria. If you wish, you can be invited to stay in Austria. [[Abg. Kiss: Do you believe what you say?]] This, Mr Kiss, is in stark contradiction with the Neutrality Act. Unfortunately, this will also come about, especially as regards military exercises. [[Abg. Kiss: This is not even what the Kostelka and the Arbitrator have said, what you claim here and say as nonsense!]] I repeat: This is in stark contradiction with the Neutrality Act, which explicitly prohibits the establishment of military bases of foreign states in the Austrian field. This clearly and clearly violates one of the three core areas of the Neutrality Act. It really has the military residence law the short title "TrOgg", because with this legal regulation the neutrality comes from the rain into the grape, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All these are signs that the Federal Government is trying to get rid of neutrality with all its tricks, and that the opposition in security and defence policy is putting before complete facts. Real willingness to talk is not evident. I would even say that this policy is dual, because on the one hand, you decide laws you claim to have nothing to do with neutrality, and on the other hand, on the other hand, you always stress that neutrality is obsolete and it is therefore right to abolish them. You do so so that you can join NATO as soon as possible. Therefore, it does not find our consent to your procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10594	The next speaker was Mr Murauer. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10616	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka, Mr Klubobmann, and Mr Comrades, on the one hand, and you, on the other hand, are not aware of the discussion that has taken place so far: The law is absolutely necessary, it serves to simplify the administration, we therefore have standardisations which we did not have in the past, the legal grey zone is thus removed!, but on the other hand we say: We are voting against it because Austria is neutral! The speeches of the socialist colleagues make it very clear that you signed the Amsterdam Treaties in 1998. Klubobmann Khol pointed out that, of course, with the votes of the Social Democrats, the ÖVP had gone the way towards European solidarity. But today – to a consequence of this in the War Materials Act and in the Force Residence Act – you say: We do not agree with that. They agreed that Austria in Europe, together with the European States, is entering into a "Partnership for Peace" in order to carry out humanitarian tasks and provide disaster aid. They said: Yes, that's right! But today you say to the War Materials Act, which is a consequence of it –: No, because we're neutral! They agreed with the EIA in 1998 – and it was reasonable, and it is reasonable today to pursue this policy – to adopt a common foreign and security policy with the European States. This serves the safety of Austria, and I can only welcome it. – But today you say: We say no to this law, because Austria is neutral, and we therefore do not agree to a "outcrowding of neutrality"! That's where I ask you: What title do you give? You're the steps you took at the time? What title do you give to your process at the time, namely that you still entered into a government or coalition agreement between Social Democracy and ÖVP, that the War Materials Act, of course, is adapted, of course, that we need a change, as we have here today? – But today you say: No, because Austria is neutral! Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! That you, as Klubobmann Khol has pointed out, to almost all the positions that are now being discussed and that serve the future of our country and the population of Austria, say no, return a salto, incite yourself and operate fundamental opposition, can not be the constructive way in this republic – even if you are in opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope I did not understand you correctly, but I fear, Mr Kostelka, that you will also say no to the Security Doctor, who is now present in a debate paper as an inventory, because you mean: Because Austria is neutral, we must not discuss the security policy starting point, which, of course, has changed since 1990 and on which the Federal Government has presented a paper – thank you for not being possible with the Social Democrats for years – because this could violate the neutrality of Austria! I hope I have misunderstood you, and I think that you will still be ready to discuss this security doctor, which is necessary for Austria, as an inventory and to draw the consequences from it. I hope you can go along with this path, ladies and gentlemen. I can still say to today's bill that it was urgently necessary to reduce bureaucracy. In this context, I would remind you that when anything was negotiated by Austria, by the Austrian executive, by the Austrian judicial system, by the Austrian army of arms, by repairs, by visits to foreign countries, four ministries were involved each time: The Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Federal Chancellery had to be included. Ladies and gentlemen! We are living at a time of debureaucratisation and also of taking responsibility by the ministers, and I believe that these responsibilities are justified in the way it regulates the War Materials Act. It is necessary and good that the Waffengesetz is amended by this law, according to which no longer used war materials and weapons can be destroyed at last; of course, historical weapons are excluded. In addition, of course, as in other cases, the international obligation, foreign policy coordination and the interest of public security must be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying: This law is a logical consequence of the Amsterdam Treaties and of the "Petersberg tasks" of our commitments to participate in a common security architecture in Europe. This serves Austria, which serves our security, and that serves a common Europe. This law is a consequence of it, and I would like to stress this once again in line with our neutrality. Neutrality is over this simple legal regime and is governed by international law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10694	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10715	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! What does the government want with this government proposal? – It wants to erode neutrality with these two laws! That is true, Mr Murauer. An example: According to this government template, the passage "with particular consideration of neutrality" in Abs. 1 point 1 War material law, and the words "regarding the constant neutrality" in paragraph 4. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties? Is there an objective reason for this? Is there an objective argument for this – except that, according to the will of the government parties, neutrality must go away? All traces of Austrian neutrality are to be blurred. However, a serious mistake in beauty is that this is unconstitutional – and that is what we Social Democrats will show over and over again. We're not going to get tired of showing this over and over again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] FPÖ and ÖVP want to get rid of the unloved child neutrality as soon as possible. Countless statements made by politicians of the now governmental parties since the fall of the Iron Curtain show this. I would now like to quote statements made by FPÖ's top candidate on the EU election 1999, Daniela Raschauer, in an election brochure. [[Call the Freeman: Raschhofer!]] That's what Mrs Raschauer said... – Raschhofer, excuse me! [[Call the Freeman: Raschhofer!]] [[Abg. Achatz: There are no Members of Parliament "Raschauer"!]] So Mrs Raschhofer says: "With its accession to the European Union, Austria has committed itself to a common European security and foreign policy. ... In order to guarantee and finance the security of the Austrian population in the future, it is necessary to join NATO after a referendum." - Quote. If today, Mr Jung, has made such a point of view out here, I wish him and the FPÖ a great deal of pleasure. – We already had this problem with the ÖVP. In this context, I would remind the honourable Member and Klubobmann Khol of an event in Innsbruck, whose title was already mentioned at the time: "Neutrality or NATO – ignition for the coalition." – But that was it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You know very well that neutral states have a place and tasks in the EU, such as conflict prevention and crisis management. Only: You now say goodbye to these tasks with silent soles – see Cyprus! – because you want to go from government to NATO. The FPÖ has said this out loud so far. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you are playing a double-bedded game. I would like to quote a few comments in this connection. For example, Commissioner Fischler said: "For the long term, we should consider how we integrate into NATO." President Fassleven's statement was to be heard: "There's no way past NATO in Europe." Klubobmann Khol also said: "The objective was to join a European security structure, but it would not exist without NATO." These statements are clear and clear and are all going in the same direction, and if there is now a different thinking "black man", they do not really play a role in the ÖVP. As an example, I quote a former leader of the ÖVP, the former Secretary-General Dr. Michael Graff. He said: "It is a solid foundation of our state existence, which is firmly established by the Austrians – everyone who has experienced it in the 55s knows that – is also applicable constitutional law, and it is inconceivable to me that the current summit of the ÖVP is decoupled from the opinion of its voters and members and believes that it is necessary to take a different course. There will be an evil awakening, because for many voters neutrality is a very important thing." - Quote. The head of the state of Tirol Wendelin Weingartner also argued in this direction – and this is not happening politically at present – when he said: "The longing of citizens for security in a changing world is very great. NATO continues to be based on a concept of enemy images that is no longer up-to-date. Therefore, it is also unnecessary and pointless to discuss NATO accession as long as NATO does not change. NATO in today's goal is obsolete." - Quote. These critics, these thinkers in your party will relatively quickly detonate important functions, I say. Finally, let me say the following: What do these two proposals for legislation which we have now been put to the vote? – These government templates mean another mosaic in your plan to abolish neutrality. To this end, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, I say to you: For us Social Democrats, neutrality is a central part of Austrian identity. We Social Democrats will not allow this to be simply sung and silently removed. On this question there is a very large majority of Austrians behind us. And that is why this government will also be careful to hold a referendum on Austrian neutrality. That is why it is important, ladies and gentlemen, as I say in the direction of the gallery, that the Social Democrats continue to put more than a third of the Members here in the House, so that at least the worst neutrality policy can be prevented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The unexplored and constitutionally questionable security policy of this government becomes an election topic. We can already promise you that from FPÖ and ÖVP. We Social Democrats do not give up Austrian neutrality!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10801	Mr Leikam has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10822	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links==* Official website I would like to make a few clarifications towards the end of this debate on April and try to clarify some of the inconsistencies here. Mr Jung, since you today accuse the Socialist Group of saying that we would be too bold – as you have literally said here – to have a public discussion on this issue: [[Abg. Young: I quoted an old speech!]] I need to remind you of something. It was the Socialist Group that was ready in the Committee on the Interior to discuss this sensitive and important issue on a broad basis. It was our group that tabled a request for a subcommittee because we wanted to discuss this matter more in terms of content than is being done here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was you and your coalition partner who did not want to discuss! You strangled the discussion in the committee at the time, and you do it here today. They have no particular interest in the more detailed treatment of this matter. Member of Parliament, young man! Nor can it be explained that today your colleague, Mr Schweitzer, has been speaking here and has mentioned a number of points about which the honourable Member, Mr Cap, is supposed to have fallen into his opinion. They come from a party that has actually carried out the Salto backwards on this question – as it has so often been called by the Austrian People's Party. They were an avid advocate of a fast NATO entry – and are no longer today. You can be failed, you can think about it, you can also come to another knowledge when the situation comes up this way; but then to massively accuse the others of what you did yourself is really absurd and can't be seriously discussed here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to return to this committee meeting. We from the Socialist Group have taken this committee so seriously that we have also drawn two Members from the foreign policy field, because we have expressed the opinion that it cannot be on and on its own the task of the Minister of the Interior to deal with such a difficult matter. This has always been confirmed in the Committee's deliberations when the Federal Minister has said very often that he is not responsible for asking the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Defence to consult. This knowledge was there, we took this into account: We have therefore contributed to our executive clubman and colleagues in the committee. It has already been so – I think Mr Kiss has mentioned this quite praiseably – that, above all, the material contributions made by Mr Schieder have led to the introduction of a corresponding request from the Austrian People's Party, which is due to the concerns of the Member of the Austrian People's Party. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, you keep it in this difficult matter as you do in many other areas. They develop a hurry that we cannot understand: "speed kills" – even in the question of neutrality! You can take the floor as often as you can and pretend not to be! The fact is that from this bill you have completely removed the word "neutrality" from this government template. And this has happened with full intention! You've had a lot of side-by-side work here today. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has argued in a completely different way than the Austrian People's Party. – We Social Democrats remain: We were, we are, and we will continue to be for neutrality! It will not be the task of neutrality with the Social Democrats in this country, ladies and gentlemen. You should take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the Force Residence Act. We would have liked to discuss this question – that is why we have tabled the request for a subcommittee – together with the Defence and Security Doctor. When asked what one has to do with the other again and again, at least I wonder that almost all speakers of the Austrian People's Party have, of course, mixed this up today. They have discussed this together; we would have liked to do so too, because it is not as simple as this right to stay in the army, as the Foreign Minister, for example, has tried to explain to us in her statements. If the term "temporary" cannot be precisely defined – and the Federal Minister for the Interior could not do so on several occasions in the Committee – the question arises: What does "passing" mean? How long can foreign troops stop in Austria before they have to leave the country again? – No one could answer this question from the government groups. That is why we are skeptical, and we also believe that only this area, namely the temporary residence of foreign troops in Austria, is in breach of the Neutrality Act. – So before this is not better defined and clearly defined, what is to be understood here, we recognize in it a clear violation of the Neutrality Act! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment tabled by the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party, which, as I have mentioned, is based on the objections and concerns expressed by our honourable Member. This is an issue that has been dealt with by the arbitrators. The key question is to disassembly disassemble neutrality – a lazy trick to erode neutrality, as it will be decided by a majority today by this legislative proposal, and that can in no way be our agreement. We have recognised – and this has been done by Mr Schieder – that efforts have been made to introduce administrative simplifications throughout the law, but in the matter itself, you have remained tough. They are ready to disassembly disassemble the Austrian neutrality with this law, too. – And we do not participate in social democrats!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10891	Mr Jung spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to ask you: Start with the playback of the claim to be corrected and face this claim with the corrected facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10915	Mr Leikam has just said that in today's debate I would have said that the Social Democrats are too weak to hold a public debate. – This is false! I have quoted the SOFA debate from an old speech from 1998, which I have expressly said. At that time, the debate was refused. I quote to the evidence the words of Mr Schieder, who said at the time: "If I assume that the Federal Government is right and that a referral to the National Council was not necessary, I have asked myself, and I would like to say so quite openly, a number of times during the discussions, whether Parliament's referral to the 'PfP' documents would have failed anyway. For this would certainly not have been a delay; one must only look at how long the replaceable debates that took place at the SOFA have taken." - Quote. This accusation was not valid for today, but this accusation was clearly related to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e10956	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the honourable Members to take a seat. We shall vote on the draft law in 555 of the supplements. Mr Kiss, Mr Young and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment or amendment. In addition, MEPs have tabled an amendment or amendment by Dr Pilz and comrades. First of all, I shall have to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Kiss, Mr Young and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article I(2), (4) and (6). Whoever is here, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Kiss, Mr Young and Mr Comrades also tabled an additional request for a point 6a to be inserted into Article I. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is adopted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Pilz and comrades have submitted an additional request to insert § 3a para. 6 provided for in Article I(7). I would ask those Members who are here for a sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. In addition, MEPs Dr. Pilz and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning § 3a para. 3 inserted in Article I(7). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. MEPs Kiss, Jung and Comrades have an amendment concerning § 3a para. 5 inserted in Article I(7). I would ask those Members of the House who are here to give a sign of this. – This is unanimously adopted. MEPs in Kiss, Jung and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article I(10) and Article 15 and Article II(2). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades on the implementation of the War Materials Act and the Force Residence Act. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 2. Point Report of the Human Rights Committee on the Government Template (437 of the Supplements): European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages and Declarations (576 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11086	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11113	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The present Charter of Regional or Minority Languages was signed in 1992 and is now being ratified. This is about protecting the historically grown regional and minority languages. The emphasis lies on the word "language", whereby Part II standardises the objectives and principles, namely cultural wealth, promotion, facilitation of the use of minority language and education. In particular, this will promote the elimination and tolerance of discrimination. Part III lists concrete measures: at least 35 paragraphs on the basis of anti-discrimination and promotion in the various areas of education, justice, administration, media, culture, economy and much more. The non-equal treatment of Hungarian and Croatian in Vienna is not satisfactorily resolved in this Charter, although it is a similar situation. The European Office for Language Minorities says that the draft is minimal in several points, namely, the media and kindergartens that have not been taken into account, but which would be very important for the development and continuation of the language – and on the other hand, that the Vienna Croatians and the Romance have been adequately taken into account. On the other hand, the inclusion of the Styrian Slovenians in the Charter is positive. That is positive in that way when a small relic has been removed from the past. We have kept it there for a long time, as the Turks have denied with the Kurds, namely, their existence, have not recognized the existence of the Styrian Slovenians, made them almost "mountains" and now they are included in this draft. But as I said, For the Croatians of Burgenland in Vienna, this is a step backwards from the already existing recognition as part of the Burgenland-Croatian People's Group. Since 1993, there has been a representative of Burgenland-Kroats in the People's Advisory Council at the Federal Chancellor's Office and since the 1. Republic of a corresponding cultural association. In addition, a quarter of Burgenische Croaten lives in Vienna. This is also explicitly taken into account in the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. It is therefore a question of protecting the language, not of indigenous settlement or of political representation, both of the Burgenland Croatians and of the Roma. That's why I think it'd be good if it'd take a long time to take that. The main purpose of this State Treaty is to protect the cultural nature of minority and regional languages as European cultural goods, both by means of non-discrimination and by means of promotion. Therefore, you should not be too afraid of the Ofner's fear of newly retiring Croatians in Vienna, because it is a matter of pure language protection and that the situation in the area of origin should not be worsened. This means: The ratification of the Charter as a whole is positive, bringing about additional international protection of minorities. De facto, however, this document is not a further development of the protection of minorities, but a fixation of the status quo, as the experts in the Committee have noted. In recent years, much has been achieved on the positive side of minorities. I recall the state target, I recall the recognition of the Roma as a people's group. How the spirit of this Charter will affect in practice will be seen. Some things, we believe, are a little contrary to this and make the existence of minorities more difficult. I just remember the postal service that presents difficulties for the media of minorities. I would also like to remind you of the reduced and supported support for groups in relation to the success of 2000. At the time, there were 61 million schillings for minorities in the budget, while 51.9 million schillings were planned in 2001 and 2002. If They compare that amount which the Federal Government has approved in order to promote and praise its own glory and glory in the course of its campaign, namely 84 million schilling, the magnitude of this amount is seen. I also remember the group radios that had to take cuts of 10 million schilling, which will result in these great difficulties. And I would remind you of the official language and topography regulation, which has been properly implemented for the Burgenland. Unfortunately, nothing goes on in Carinthia. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But in Carinthia a lot goes on! Kindergartenen! Bilingual kindergartens!]] The whole thing rests in Carinthia, where the head of state can still lubricate the people's group representatives so much honey around the mouth: This tactic is clear, namely to say to the Slovenians: You are good and important to us! And on the other hand, before the Carinthian home service, he is talking about the "sleaving slovenization" that threatens. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: For example, in broadcasting!]] This double-beddedness and this double-game are clear! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Summary: We will vote in favour of the ratification of the Charter; it is a positive instrument for the protection of minorities. However, we would like to know the Charter also applied to the Burgenland Croatians in Vienna. And that is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11202	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits, Mag. Posch, friends and friends are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11226	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The statements made by my previous speaker, especially the style in which he made them, show that a very objective atmosphere has now come into play in the sector of ethnic group and minority policy. I believe that this is not a coincidence, it is a fruit of the development of the last year, of the past months. You almost have to smile when, in contrast to what happened and what is happening now, you look at a socialist leaflet that was distributed 20 years ago in a census that turned to the Burgenish Croatians. Among other things – specifically addressed to the Burgenian Croats – it reads: If you want to prevent the creation of bilingual local panels, check the survey sheet only in German, but only in the way our pattern shows. - Quote. That is to say, at that time one has been asked to prevent the establishment of bilingual town boards, which was the Bureau of the Conference of Mayors and Deputy Mayors of Croatian and Mixed Communities, responsible for the content Fritz Robak – the elder he is still personally known –, socialist of high degrees. I don't want to blame him. That was the mood at the time. And the Social Democrats – at the time they called socialists – were the leaders on the path of the pursuit of complete assimilation of a minority. It's different today. We have been able to create a success list since the turn of the year, which can really be seen. I would like not only to follow the order, but also to refer to the meaning, first and foremost, to the objective of the State, which has since 1. In August 2000 it was decided unanimously here in the House. This Europe-wide rule of the Constitution represents the fulfilment of a central concern of the ethnic groups and their representatives. Since 22. Last June, the Topography Regulation Burgenland is in force. On the basis of this Topography Regulation, in six of the seven political districts there are the Burgenlandes bilingual, German and Croatian-designated town boards and in two districts, in large cities in the two districts, among others also in Oberpulendorf – Colle Kiss is currently not there, he is at home –, bilingual town boards in Hungarian and German. That is to say, what the Socialists advised the members of the national groups 20 years ago to avoid in all circumstances has now implemented this new federal government in recent months since its turn. The official language regulation, since 1. In October last year, the Hungarian official language has ensured at all levels in the corresponding areas of Burgenland. In Carinthia, there is a great deal going on, namely the extension of bilingual teaching in the south of the country to the fourth level, improvements in favour of the Slovenian people's group in kindergarten and music schools and the establishment of 34 other local boards in compliance with a 1977 regulation. Who has been the head of state since then? – All possible, but now it is Haider, now the Freeman has the corresponding influence, and the local panels already planned in 1977 are now being set up. Because the radio has been mentioned: The time-consuming expansion of the broadcasting activity of the two stations Radio "Korotan" and Radio "Agora" on a daily basis is in progress, secured by the help of the ORF within the framework of the new legal regulations. But these are not just the assessments of the Harald Ofner, but I do not quote anyone less than the chairman of the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, Bernard Sadovnik, who praises the "consensual way" – literally – which has been challenged in recent years in relation to the Slovenian people's group. He gives the radical forces, "from whatever side they may come", a clear rejection. He, the chairman of the Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, recalls the "far advanced concessions" by the Federal Government regarding minorities living in Austria. - You can't ignore all of this. On a problem with Croatia in Vienna. It is stated in this Treaty that the ratification of which is concerned is: It is about "regarding the special conditions and historical traditions in the different regions". And among the "historical traditions" of the Burgenland-Croatian language are the corresponding topographic areas of the Burgenland, but not the Federal Capital of Vienna. There are a lot of Croatians in the state capital of Vienna, but there are no castleland Croatians. And the Burgenland-Croats are the last to want protective measures in favor of the Croatians and their language to benefit tens of thousands of immigrants from the state of Croatia, because there the Burgenland-Croats, the autochthonian Croatians, would be a attachment of this non-Austrian minority. That means quite clearly, according to the text of the text on which it refers: The Croatians and their language must be adequately protected and preserved and promoted, but not in Vienna, but according to the "historical traditions" in the Burgenland. By the way, everything that exists in languages in this context is also reflected in ratification, namely Burgenland-Croatian in the corresponding language area in Burgenland, Slovenian in the corresponding language area in Carinthia, Hungarian in the corresponding language area in Burgenland and in the reduced form, because otherwise this is not feasible, Czech in the country of Vienna, Slovak in the country of Vienna, Romanes in the country of Burgenland, Slovenian in the country of Styria and Hungarian in the country of Vienna, as said, at the lower level that is intended for this. So it's pretty clear. I also understand that the Croats' representatives are trying to achieve an extension towards Vienna, but it would break the framework of this proposal if the House were to comply with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11304	In order to make an actual correction, honourable Member Ing. Key to word reported. – Mr deputies, you know § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11329	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Posch said in his speech that nothing is going on in Carinthia. – This is not correct, but this is not true, and as proof I would like only two points of the result of the last round table conversation. By the way, a document signed by all parties was published in May 2001. "Point 1: The dialogue at the Round Table has so far brought many "positive results. ... Point 3: The open points of the package (Kindergartengesetz und ORF)" will be completed until summer 2001..." This, ladies and gentlemen, was, among other things, signed by Chief of State Dr. Jörg Haider, Dr. Freunschlag, Dr. Ambrozy, Landesrat Wurmitzer – and now it comes! –, Bernard Sadovnik, Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, Dr. Marjan Sturm, Central Association of the Carinthian Slovenians, Andrej Wakunig, Chairman of the Unity List, Dr. Renigald Vospernik, Council of the Carinthian Slovenians, Dr. Feldner and Schretter. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: This is not an actual correction!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] Here is the illustration of the original document with signatures. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11379	Mr Zernatto has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11401	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am of course pleased – as did my previous speakers – that this Charter of Regional or Minority Languages can be ratified and that the decision in this regard is being taken here in the House today. As far as the content is concerned, I do not want to add too much to what Mr Ofner has already said, but I would like to refer to a very essential aspect here. The decision and ratification of such a Charter are the one thing – the fulfillment of what is behind this Charter, with life, is the other. That is why it was no wonder that, of course, there was a very immediate need to play a role here at the federal and national level in the argumentation, even if these were not legal changes in the sense of minority protection, but only in the protection of minorities and regions. But, of course, these provisions, which are enshrined in this Charter, do not remain without any influence on the actual, real-world and minority policies. Ladies and gentlemen! Although only in – thank God! – very unemotionally presented by-sets, there are also resentments in this area, and these resentments, which were present, ultimately make it difficult to implement the spirit of this Charter. That is why I would like to point out from my experience – Mr Ofner has already said that since 1977 in Carinthia there have been other heads of state than those now ruling – that dialogue, the permanent, positive discussion in this context, is a very essential basis for a positive development of the People's Group Policy also in Carinthia for the Carinthian Slovenians. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, in addition to what Mr Posch said here, who spoke of minimization in the field of funding, I would like to point out that that point, which Mr Ofner rightly pointed out here, has become necessary and, as I believe, a successful change of the minority school law in Carinthia, which is now extending bilingual education to the fourth level, requires an additional effort of at least 24 million schilling a year. Ladies and gentlemen! That is something if you put it in relation to what is being spent in the context of minority support. But we are also in another discussion, which is at least as important from my point of view. The official language regulation in Carinthia, which will be reworded by a recognition of the Constitutional Court, should also be an opportunity to permit the cross-reference to this Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. I do not know whether anyone who today decides to ratify this is aware that in the explanatory report on Article 10, which deals with the regional and minority languages in the transport of administrative authorities and public services, it is very clear what it means. The explanatory report clearly states: "Although social and cultural circumstances have developed in such a way that the vast majority of people who speak these languages are bilingual and able to use an official language to communicate with the public authorities. However, permission to use regional or minority languages in dealing with such authorities is essential for the status of these languages and for their development, as well as for subjective reasons. Clearly, a language, if no longer used in dealing with the authorities at all, would actually make it ineffective as a language, because a language is a means of public communication and cannot be limited to the field of private relations alone. In addition, a language, if it does not have access to policy, law and administration, will gradually lose its entire terminology potential in this area and become a ‘impeded’ language that is unable to express any aspect of life in the Community." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this does not mean more and no less than that active efforts are needed to actually bring the spirit of this Charter into the current legal order. And that consensus in all these matters, which Mr Ofner rightly spoke of, will be necessary, especially the consensus between the federal states concerned and the legislative authorities at the federal level, in order to come to terms here, especially in the official language field, which on the one hand, do not lead to an overload in individual parts of our state, on the other hand, but also, on the other hand, to the spirit of these language charts. That is why I would like to make a small appeal from this point of view today. In the context of the census, the call for some organisations to provide only German as a language of use has not necessarily helped to maintain this consensusal climate in the future. I believe that some of the comments made by politicians in this context were not necessarily true of this consensus, and I believe that it should be natural for us, which we feel obliged to do, to take seriously and act on the findings of the Constitutional Court, just as the minority school law in Carinthia has, of course, taken place. I would like you to take that path here, too, as you have done in the field of minority school law, where you have, in the end, created a solution that has already happened to the Council of Ministers, all three parties represented in the Carinthian Landtag with the Slovenian minority in Carinthia. In this sense, I am pleased to be able to tell you that, of course, we will be pleased to give our approval to the Austrian People's Party of this Charter, but at the same time I would like to see it come into being as something like a new spirit of implementation, a spirit which is borne by the fact that it ultimately means an enrichment for Austria when there are minority languages, namely enrichment not only in the cultural field but also in very pragmatic-economic contexts, only if one assumes that, I believe, in almost the majority of the candidate countries which are currently under debate, Slavic languages are spoken, for this makes it a decisive facilitated, namely, that the discussion can also be carried across borders. In this sense, we will give our approval to this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11479	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11500	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Thank you very much, Mr. Alt-Hauptmann Zernatto, for your request that people's political issues should be resolved consistently in the future. You certainly also rely on experiences from the past, from your time as head of state in Carinthia, and I appreciate your request or request especially in view of the fact that you are certainly looking back with a painful thought of your time as head of state in Carinthia, when you look at what is happening in Carinthia today. Today, Carinthia is ruled by a state captain who, as a result of a finding of the Constitutional Court, has spoken about the fact that, if the Constitutional Court continues to allow itself to waive or criticise simple legislation in the sense of the federal constitution, the Constitution will be amended. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Excellently ruled!]] – This is the spirit, Mr. Alt-Chairman Zernatto, with which the opposition, but also the government parties here in Vienna is facing today. This is Article 7, the State Treaty of Vienna 1955, a constitutional component which no one here in this House is going to abdicate – except for the head of state of Carinthia. If he speaks of "slowing slovenization" in the course of the findings of the Constitutional Court, then, Mr. Alt-Hauptmann Zernatto, it is difficult for me to believe in the consensusal spirit for the future, so I wish him on minority issues. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minority issues are characterised by the fact that every minority depends on the political goodwill of the majority, which is the essence of minority and majority relations. And that is why the responsibility of the majority in the numerical sense, but also in the political sense, is so essential, and therefore the existence, survival, the care of culture, the care of language, the further development of regional or minority languages is almost exclusively the responsibility of the majority. Minorities are logically not interested in letting their languages die. They do everything they can! Faith You're me! Not only do I have my own experience as a member of a minority, but I know the minority scene problem and the organizations in Austria very well. I can only speak here with the words of our Foreign Minister, who, on the occasion of the Cultural Agreement between Slovenia and Austria in Ljubljana – I am now quoting from the APA – "that of course Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty still has full validity". My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, it is said that Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty still has full validity; on the other hand, however, as regards the simple implementing provisions of the Vienna State Treaty, which would provide for, for example, that since 1977 in Carinthia 96 bilingual local boards should be located, we must find that 34 of them are missing. – Yes, please, now I do not know what spirit of consensus is appealed to when there is a daily breach of constitution in Carinthia, if even the local boards to be set up by the Federal Chancellor’s decree are nowhere there – and that is a regulation that is fully valid, ladies and gentlemen! That was just the introduction. Now to the Charter: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In January 1995, the National Council adopted a unanimous decision – at the time five parties were represented in the National Council – which the Federal Government has called for, but at last a proposal for ratification of a government template to ratify the Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, since Austria signed this Charter in 1992. Since then, nine years have passed, during which Austria has examined and studied, which of this Charter – which has already been signed at the time – must have been valid for us. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Let me just use a short moment to tell you what the whole "works" will bring to us, speak for our minorities and minority languages. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has behaved in the signing of this Treaty as well as in the context of many other international treaties, only: It is particularly unfortunate here, because this opportunity for further development of a legal area or a political area, which sometimes constitutes a conflict – which, however, means an existential conflict for the groups! –, has been completely unused. A total of 70 points are presented in the Charter of Regional or Minority Languages to the respective Signatory States so that they may choose from them themselves those in respect of which they wish to commit themselves and to their implementation in their respective country, with only one who chooses at least 35 of them sitting in the boat of the commitment. Do you know how many points Austria has selected? – Exactly 35, that is exactly the minimum necessary for us to be able to ratify this Charter at all – quite unlike other countries in Europe where there are also minorities and ethnic groups, such as Finland, which has selected 59 out of 70 points for the Sami and 65 out of 70 points for the Swedish language minority. I am not speaking here of countries which are quite different in size, because Finland is quite comparable to Austria, and this is also true of its social system and its legal system. Switzerland has also committed not only to 35 points, which would be the minimum variant, for the Ratorians, but with 49 points. Hungary – a country where some of us sometimes still have doubts as to whether democracy would really be as high as in Austria; these reservations still exist, especially from the right side – has also chosen 47 of the 70 points in ratification. But Austria is limited to 35, and for this 35 it was also needed for nine years. However, I do not hide, ladies and gentlemen, that I am particularly pleased, as a member of the Council of Europe's parliamentary assembly, that ratification is finally happening, because it does not deteriorate – but it does not, of course, improve either. But now on the point of "worry". To document to you just one example of this "consensual" climate and this incredible "progress" on minority and national political issues, which, after the presentation of Mr. Dr. Ofner, has been said to have been: Well, we have decided together on the state objective. This is a green initiative from 1995. We agreed, and I am pleased about that. I am pleased that even the Austrian National Council was clear on this issue. It's a shame to the old government that she couldn't get through with it, but it happened now. But the next possibility of complying with the spirit of the objective of state and the protection of minorities, namely the ratification of the Charter of Languages, is left out, or once again left out, because – and now I come to the main criticism point of my own, which I also express in an amendment which is before the President and which is being distributed – here I am consciously, deliberately – otherwise I cannot explain to myself, a national political line that has so far been valid, namely those who believe it is a fact that the Roma in Vienna are part of the Roma people's group and that their language is thus also given a corresponding status. Since the Roma People's Advisory Council, Rudolf Sarkozi, the chairman of the "Culture Association of Austrian Roma" in Vienna, is chairman of the Advisory Council, but the language of the Roma in Vienna has no influence on the positive points that are the basis of the ratification of the Charter. The protection of the Charter of Regional or Minority Languages does not cover the language of the Roma in Vienna, nor does this protection apply to the language of the Burgenlandcroats in Vienna, although since the formation of the Advisory Council for the Croats' People's Group it is perfectly natural that there are two groups of organisations, which are sitting in this advisory board – they have already been called again – and the Federal Chancellor and the Secretary of State in People's Political Affairs, namely the Croatian Cultural Association in Vienna, which was formally founded in 1934, the Statutes came from 1934, the first activity already in the 1920s – and also the Croatian Academic Club, which dates at about the same time. Here – for the organisations have already pointed out this before the preparation of the government template – no intention was made to put the languages of the Burgenlandcroats in Vienna and the Roma in Vienna under the protection of this Charter. I can only see this as an unkind act if I formulate it very gently. But I am not so gentle, ladies and gentlemen, and the discussions in the Committee and press conferences on the part of the Freedom Party have also shown that it is again this reflection, which we have to observe so many times, that xenophobia, this fear of immigrants who have clearly seduced the authors to say – and that has been expressed openly – that: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Elmwall]] We do not want a mixture between the Croats, the Croats and the Burgenlandcroats, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the Burgenlandcroats – even Dr. Ofner said that – do not want to, but the Burgenlandcroats do not want to have their right of existence in Vienna through the ratification of the Charter! The danger of this being interpreted is given. That is why we are bringing forward our amendment, and that is why there is also the resolution tabled by the SPÖ and the Greens, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that the government is guided only by the motives of fear or prejudice, or whatever, on these issues also shows that all three experts who were invited to the Committee – to explain to the Committee at all what it is about, why it is important, and what the objective is – have asked the Committee and therefore the members of the National Council to eliminate this defect. Although it does not affect ratification, it makes this legislative measure again in a certain way stiff. Me, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, this also concerns as a person, as an individual and as a citizen, as a Burgenlandcroat who lives in Vienna, speaks Burgenlandcroat, and who wants to know the right to her mother tongue, to her cultural identity, also as a weekly counterpart. The times have changed, ladies and gentlemen. The time when someone in Stinazz/Stinjaki, Veliki Borištof/Grootwarasdorf came to the world, went to school, lived there and was buried there is over. People are mobile, but we do not want to be restricted by mobility and modern times. That's what it's all about. It is not a question of mixing, it is not a question of additional rights – this Charter does not even have one millimeter of additional right – but this Charter is to represent a commitment to historical cultural diversity, as it has been enshrined in the Austrian federal constitution since last year. I am sincerely sorry for the chance, and therefore I ask you: Still think about it! We could still express in the form of a resolution that is not meant to put rights that exist already in agreement. I also do not believe that this is the intention of the efforts of Dr. Zernatto, who has been so focused on honest consensus, and not on those of the other Members who have been active here – some of them for many years – in councils, who are strong for the rights of the ethnic groups. Please do not take this opportunity, and do so now for the future of children – in the case of Roma in Vienna and Burgenlandcroats in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11570	Mr Morak spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11591	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am particularly concerned that Austria will now ratify the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. I believe that this Charter is an important international instrument for the protection and conservation of the languages of the six ethnic groups in Austria, and, Mrs Stoisits, the improvement you have spoken about – in the international security of these minority languages. The Federal Government has thus – Mr Dr. Ofner mentioned it already – set another milestone, as I believe, after the decision on the state objective, according to the Topography Regulation for the Burgenland and the official language regulation Hungarian, a clear mark in favour of the Austrian ethnic groups. The ratification of the Charter will now also ensure a number of nationally guaranteed rights under international law. The Federal Government will thus meet another concern of the ethnic groups in the Memorandum of the Austrian Groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] From a European point of view, I would point out that, although the language charter was signed since 1992, it was not signed until 1 January 1992. March 1998 – after the ratification by five states – entered into force under international law. Following the ratification of the Charter a few weeks ago by the United Kingdom and Spain, 13 out of 43 Member States of the Council of Europe have now ratified the language charter. The ratification of the Charter by Austria underlines Austria's efforts to adopt a model role in the European concert in the field of minority protection, to set standards in minority languages. On the occasion of the ratification of the language charter, Austria will place the languages of the six indigenous groups under the protection of Part II of the Charter. This section contains general objectives and principles in favour of the languages and is applicable independently of the respective autochthonic settlement areas. Austria will also designate the castle country Croatian in the Burgenland Croatian language area in Burgenland, the Slovenian language area in Carinthia and the Hungarian language area in the Burgenland, Hungary, as languages to which Part III of the Charter should apply. In this way, Austria will undertake at least 35 concrete commitments for the protection and promotion of these languages for each of these three languages in the respective autochthonian settlement areas. In addition, Austria will voluntarily call languages in other autochthonic settlement areas for which individual commitments from Part III are taken over, namely for the Czech, Slovak and Hungarian in Vienna, for the Slovenian in Styria and for the Roman in Burgenland. In this context, let me also address the criticism that the Federal Government should also have mentioned Burgenlandcroat in the country of Vienna in the voluntary commitment just mentioned. – First of all, it should be said that the declaration is based on the autochthonic settlement area of the affected groups. However, there are no arguments in my knowledge that would legally justify why Vienna would also be the indigenous settlement area of the Burgenland Croatian people's group in Austria. Although it is undisputed that the Burgenlandcroats in Vienna are organized in a number of associations – which, by the way, of course, are also supported by the public group support – the citizens of the Burgenlandcroats, who are based in Vienna, are mostly members of the population of the Burgenland group, who, for example, spend certain periods of life outside the Burgenland for occupational reasons. It cannot be derived from this that Vienna would also be the indigenous settlement area of Burgenlandcroats. This does not mean, however, that the Burgenlandcroat as a language in Vienna would not at all be affected by the protection of the Charter. I have already pointed out that, according to Part II of the Charter, the Burgenlandcroat is protected not only in the autochthonic settlement area in the Burgenland, but everywhere in Austria – and thus also in Vienna. Finally, a comment on the term "Burgenland Croatian", on why the language charter is used instead of "Croatian" "Burgenland Croatian": The Burgenland Croatian is standardized as a written language, and also the curriculums according to minority protection law for the Burgenland use the term "Burgenland Croatian". But what's even more important in my eyes: The definition of the concept of the "Burgenland Croatian" corresponds to a unanimous wish of the People's Advisory Council. The ratification of the language charter, as I believe, is an important step towards a common European standard of the rights of the ethnic groups and their languages, and I therefore seek the approval of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11662	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I am still saying that the amendment that has already been distributed by the honourable Members is a matter of urgency. Terezija Stoisitsand Friends is sufficiently supported, in an objective context to the item on the agenda and will therefore also be involved in the negotiation and voting process. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11754	Mr Oberhaidinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11775	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ofner, one of my previous speakers, has referred to the attitude of Mr Robak, then colleague, and I would like to say to Mr Ofner from this point of view: We know that rethinking in this context is and will continue to be a long-standing, multi-year process, and I believe that even after 20 years, the liberals will no longer speak to the tongue of their then oblivion climber. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Certainly not!]] So it changes a lot both with you and with us, ladies and gentlemen. Since the state target has already been addressed several times and the victory is known to have many fathers, I can remind you that the state target is a very old party decision of my group. The initiative was taken by the ARGE People's Groups at the time, and we met this demand. It has been in Parliament for years; unfortunately, we have not been able to convince our long-standing coalition partner, the ÖVP, of the accuracy of this measure. Nevertheless, we are delighted that the state objective – a very essential provision – has finally become reality. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some revision, namely the last meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, which I felt – at least in its first part – very informative. At the beginning was a report by Minister of the Interior Dr. Strasser on the development of the work of the Human Rights Advisory Council. It was a very good contribution from him, and there have also been many questions. – I should also like to remind you that the Human Rights Advisory Council was still installed under its predecessor, Minister of Interior Karl Schlögl. Nevertheless, it was really gratifying: a) the number of questions and b) how openly and cooperatively these questions were answered by Minister of the Interior Strasser and his chief officials. It is less gratifying, ladies and gentlemen, then – for me at least – the discussion on the issue of the Charter, which is now under way and which we will ratify, is going to take place. In particular, the Committee's determination, which we, that is to say, Green and Red, have not been able to win off anything from the government parties. Because of a lack of time, I cannot respond to the details of this committee, I would just like to say that the discussion concerned mostly matters of the Rules of Procedure, that is, almost nothing at all, and that this Committee statement was ultimately rejected with the votes of the majority of governments. Mr Posch has already explained: However, we will nevertheless agree to the ratification of this Charter, which is very important for us. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as the climate in the Committee on Human Rights, which has been increasing in recent times, has been mentioned again, a few words on this: First of all, I would like to say that very, very many initiatives are being taken by the two opposition parties, by red and green, and that we are, of course, very open and too many solutions for discussions on this. However, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still many unfinished requests which have also been raised at the last committee meeting. I think it is not necessarily a quality feature, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, neither for Parliament nor for the Human Rights Committee, when we are hiding on the many human rights violations that happen almost every day on our doorstep. I should therefore like to ask you to express your position clearly and together with us in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11819	The next speaker is Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11843	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I am very glad that Mr Oberhaidinger has addressed the climate in the Human Rights Committee, and I would also like to say two or three things in this regard. First of all, I would like to recall how it actually came to this human rights committee, which is a good and sensible institution. Such an institution was permanently demanded by the opposition parties, at a time when the SPÖ together with the ÖVP was still the government. Over the years they have blocked the establishment of the Human Rights Committee! We are very glad that it was finally made possible by the entry into government of the liberals that this parliamentary instrument had been established. Now there is this committee and we are happy about its establishment. However, I am somewhat confused about the handling of this committee. Of course, we are all politicians and pursue certain objectives, but the handling of the Committee through a number of, in particular, committee presidents, the way in which the discussion is held and the issues are addressed, gives me the impression – and I have done so both in the questions and in the discussions in the Committee – that the President does not give this instrument a good service. In fact, it does not only promote this committee, but actually initiates it. There is hardly a committee in this House, which has so often spoken, and there is a need for consensus in the end. In the past year, he has reported monthly, and this is also good and true, but that does not mean that you have to follow any oppositional requirement unconditionally. The president was reserved to invite the ORF at any time and to provoke unnecessary interruptions at any meeting in order to give the media interviews during the discussions. I consider this to be a spectral of this committee, which cannot be justified. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's incredible!]] I say this very clearly to you at this point, because this is not at all appropriate. I am thinking that you are deliberately making a spectacle of it, because I appreciate you as an intelligent woman and as the Rules of Procedure for many years Members who do not need to get legal advice, just as at the last committee meeting, three times, as she has to interpret the Committee or the Rules of Procedure. There are only two ways to do this so often: It is a matter of arbitrarily laying it on – and that is, I say, before you – or one simply is not able to lead the Committee as chairman at all. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I believe the second!]] – I don’t believe the second or I don’t want to believe, but rather the first. [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: I do!]] They are constantly stressing that the liberals would leave the way of consensus, and this is obviously exclusively up to you, because you are not really looking for consensus, but deliberately for the dissent. And that is reflected in all your requests. If you want to give the impression that all the representatives of the ethnic groups are criticising this government in this human rights matter, then it turns out to be the case when you have the word "critic" on the government template in every request. However, this kind of criticism did not exist in this government template, but the experts have unanimously found that this government template is good, they would only have wished for additions. However, this is not a criticism of the government proposal per se; But they represent it as a criticism, because you want to beat political change. On the occasion of the ratification of this government template, a spectacle is being carried out, although it has been overdue for nine years, at least for six years. This government has now implemented it. Of course, they also criticise this on the point, i.e. whether this would have dragged the Freedom Party alone or together with the ÖVP for nine years. The State objective will be implemented. - Right! This was an initiative that came from this House, more precisely from the opposition. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Of the Greens!]] But who put this into practice? – It is not always a greener, it was already a liberal who introduced this during the last legislative period if I can remind you of it! – But: It has now been implemented! Show me a government in the past that has so promptly complied with oppositional concerns! This government does it if it is a proper and good concern. If you were actually interested or interested in consensus, you could also highlight this positively and not only spread negative, pessimistic moods to perhaps give an impression of dissent at home or abroad, which in fact does not exist between the groups and the government parties. [[Abg. Kiss: Exactly!]] This was also clearly demonstrated by the "Round Table" of yesterday's day in Carinthia, held under the leadership of the head of state Haider: All representatives of the ethnic groups see the dialogue at the Round Table with the head of state Haider and the other government parties in Carinthia very positively. There it was agreed that this dialogue process is being constantly developed, and all the representatives of the ethnic groups have considered the result to be extremely satisfactory, in particular the leadership of the head of state of Carinthia. If you see a dissent in it, then this is your kind of interpretation, but it does not correspond to the facts, but is again only your cheap party policy polemic, which you also display permanently in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11949	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Stoisits. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e11977	Thank you, Mr President. – Even Dr. Graf has meant that I already know the Rules of Procedure on the basis of many years of membership of the National Council. [[Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Neudeck:Kennen should!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, Member of the Commission, made the following point of fact: He meant that the government of the liberals had allowed this Human Rights Committee to be set up. I'm actually correcting: The establishment of the Human Rights Committee was made possible by a unanimous decision of the President in December 1999. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Yes, yes – "be entered"!]] - Insisted. – This is the first correction. Second correction: Mr. Dr. Graf meant that the Human Rights Committee was in the monthly rhythm for days. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Last year!]] The Human Rights Committee was established in December 1999 and 18 months have passed since then. The Human Rights Committee has held seven meetings so far. – So much about the arithmetical skills of Dr. Graf.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12054	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That was no actual correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That was a polemic contribution!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You don't want him to meet in July and August! There you go on vacation! That's how it looks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I call Mr Ellmauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12122	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oberhaidinger! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: I listen to you!]] - Are you listening? That's nice! On your statement concerning work in the Human Rights Committee: I can already say that the Human Rights Committee is one of those committees, which Mr Graf has a hundred percent right, which often meets. We have spent the last 18 months – in fact, only 16 months, because we have to take off the parliamentary holidays – seven times, that is, almost every second month once. It's not that bad. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: You're already better at computing!]] Mrs Stoisits! If in other committees as many opposition applications are implemented as in the Human Rights Committee, then we are in good society, because we have... – Three are it, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: So far these were two!]] But let's leave it! Only: On the day of human rights last year, they brought it as chairman of the Committee to invite NGOs to Parliament and also to invite colleagues from the SPÖ. We, the colleagues in the government groups, have not been invited. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Martin Graf and Kiss.]] If you see this as a successful cooperation, we want to leave it to you. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This was very successful!]] Now on the subject: The language charter is a international instrument for protecting regional and minority languages as a common heritage and part of Europe's cultural wealth. The main focus, therefore, is on the languages that are traditionally spoken in a particular area, not the languages of immigrants, but also not primarily the members of a language minority. They show that in Europe not all are being shaved over a comb and that consideration is given to the cultural practices that have manifested themselves through several generations. I am pleased that the ratification of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages will take place today in the House, because until now only eleven of the 43 Member States of the Council of Europe have ratified it. The European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages is based on initiatives of the Council of Europe Parliament. It aims to protect and promote regional and minority languages as a endangered aspect of European cultural life. It therefore not only contains a ban on discrimination, but also provides positive support for these languages. These measures are intended to promote multilingualism, for example in the Austrian population. However, they should not promote the linguistic and personal development of each other, but rather the approximation between the Austrians of different origins as effectively as possible in order to gain mutual cultural understanding. It also seems very important to me that the objective is to pay particular attention to regional and minority languages in their geographically-derived territory, and that any changes in administrative breakdown do not hinder language development. The aim is not to define individual and collective rights of ethnic or cultural minority groups, but to protect and promote regional and minority languages as such. Cultural diversity in international sovereign states requires that a cultural asset be protected territorially in an ever-growing Europe. ==References====External links== ==References== As a result, however, it has been shown that the political process of implementing the Charter of Languages in the European States has been constantly under way. This may have been due to the fact that the Charter not only consists of general commitments, but also requires specific commitments from the States regarding individual measures. I do not understand the Greens and the SPÖ either if they criticize the introduction of the term "Burggenland Croatian". In the State Treaty of Vienna the term "Croatian" is cited. The concreteization on "Burgenland Croatian" corresponds to a one-bright wish of the People's Advisory Council, which also contributed to the Burgenlandcroats in Vienna. ==References====External links== In March 1998, it entered into force under international law and is now in the House for ratification. This ratification decision also stresses the high importance of minority languages for the intercultural relations of our country. At the same time, a cultural property already maintained in Austria for several generations is manifested in its present form. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Even though the opposition and especially you, Mrs Mag. Stoisits and Mr Posch, I must say that Austria is doing more than the Charter calls for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, even after ratification, this Charter does not prevent a Contracting State from entering into further commitments for the future. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to make the ratification uniform.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12216	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12238	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to draw attention to two points in the light of this debate on the Charter. Firstly, education is an essential element of this Charter. Even though it is very pleasing from the point of view that at least this step is taken, there seems to me to be an insignificant contradiction to what has been decided only a few months ago, namely in the context of the financial compensation, where there has been no special quotas for minority schools in Carinthia and Burgenland. If I read through what is in the Charter, I would think that this is not really in line with it. There it has been determined – and I interpret it now – that in the end the minority school system in Burgenland and in Carinthia has to be the task of the federal state and the federal government no longer cares for it. The fact that one had to save meant that the savings in these two federal states were much higher than in others. The consequences of this must also be abandoned. There will be a pressure to save where. It has to be saved. And there will really be a need to put all political power behind this that is not at the expense of these minority and regional languages. [[Abg. Großruck: Who is the head of the state in Burgenland?- Oh, my God!]] There is one more way to improve the budgets, but not all of them have yet been decided. But maybe. You take this suggestion that further action is needed in this case. The second point is that, in Austria, besides the languages mentioned in the Charter, there is of course a need to set up linguistic support measures in the area of immigrants and to create offers. This would be necessary to promote linguistic integration. It is precisely this area, however, that is really threatened by the cuts in the education system, and there are itself restrictions on supply. We know that there are also restrictions on service posts. It has even been included in the government agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP, which has then failed, in the fact that it is important to learn and acquire mother tongue teaching in terms of the ability to learn and acquire other languages, and that this is a very central prerequisite. It is intended to be more invested in German lessons, but the mother-language teaching no longer has that weight that he should have from our point of view. Here – and this is clear to me – is about the regional and minority languages, but as government parties, you certainly do not leave it out of the responsibility, even in the area of immigrants, also in the area of language provision in schools, in these areas – this group is growing in quantity. They should not just call on the Charter, but say: Okay, even here we will take action and take steps, set priorities and also make financial resources available to improve supply.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12273	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12295	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, to Carinthia. I would just like to add three points: First: The definition of Slovenian-speaking teaching in the fourth classes is a constitutional law, so it must be observed. This is therefore not a performance of the current head of state. Secondly, with regard to the establishment of other bilingual town boards: Let's wait for what the "simple party member" will do in Carinthia, as it is so afraid of further slovenization! Thirdly, A real blow to the face of the Slovenian-speaking minority in Carinthia is the more recent practice in the occupation of directors at bilingual schools. It was Usus that there the directors are bilingual. How should a director manage a school if he doesn't speak the second language? This has also been changed, and this is also a blow to the face of the Slovenian-speaking minority in Carinthia, executed by the "simple party member" and state captain. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Slovenians see this differently!]] We will therefore decide on the Charter for the Protection of Regional or Minority Languages. That's really a very good thing. The use of minority languages is not only a human right, but also a very important cultural asset. Those who want to maintain cultural plurality in Europe must take care of minority languages. This sounds wonderful in the "Year of Languages", in which a whole advertising machine was set up to make clear to all the people living in Austria that foreign languages are good for them and for our country. It would be truly welcome if something would actually be done for the languages if pedagogical consequences were to be drawn if there were an extended foreign language offer if it would be for the sharing of classes and for an increased use of "Native Speakers" and more so. However, the idealistic goals of the "Year of Languages 2001" are quite different from the reduction of education in the Austrian Federal Government. This is all the more regrettable than language is more than a tool for understanding. Language is the basis of any intercultural competence, our knowledge about the other is expanded and at the same time relativized our own view of life. The stranger and the common become aware, enemy images can be dismantled. This means that tolerance and understanding can be promoted. And of that, ladies and gentlemen, we just can't get enough in times like this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, a language potential can also be used, which is already present in the country. You simply protect or promote the local minorities, their culture and their language. Language is a living thing, it constantly changes, it belongs to well-kept, educated, and trained. But unfortunately, the xenophobic attitude of the FPÖ is becoming apparent again and again. If it is said that only autochthonic groups can be protected, I would like to have explained this word "audoghon". Does that mean that minorities must have settled before the Second World War? Does this mean that the settlement must have been before or after the great migration of the people? What does "audoghon" mean to you? I wonder, Why is your internal defense so great to view the language of Roma and Croatians in Vienna as a protective minority language? What makes it so difficult for you to set up bilingual kindergartens and schools, where it is proven that children learn up to 90 percent of the grammar of their own language by the third year of life. That is, they would have a second language. Today, for example, the Charter for the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages is decided, but the opportunity for further development of the People's Group Law has unfortunately not been used by your side. Once again, the FPÖ looks in the wrong direction and once again, the ÖVP is a stepbügelhalten. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12352	The next speaker is Mrs Burket. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12374	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too come to the last meeting of the Human Rights Committee, a stage on which the chairman acted in an incredible way, where she satisfied her feelings of power and took the whole committee hostage – knowing that a meeting limit was actually agreed – where she said with little arrogance to Mrs. Fekter: Mrs. Colleague, your knowledge of Burgenlandcroats is only rudimentary. – But that was only a small part of the Committee’s really bad idea, so to speak, the bad external form. [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you have something to say on the content?]] I'll get to the content now. I was inspired by the dissenting personal opinion of Mr Stoisits. From the point of view that she is the expert on matter, so to speak, I find her remarks quite amazing. I can quote from her opinion: The limitation of the protection of minority languages in only certain areas meant that minority members would no longer enjoy the language protection required by the Charter when leaving their village. - Quote. Well, what happens when a member of this minority group leaves his place? What is it then? Can't he talk anymore? What is it then protected or protected from? Is it not possible to speak Croatian outside the area? - It can't be. Mrs Stoisits gives a sample of her knowledge of this language on every plenary day, as well today, and she seems to do so completely unprotected. Rather, it is the case that the bilingual town boards were not established until August 2000, although this regulation originally dates back to 1976. Respect and respect for recognised minority languages and legal anchoring is not a topographic question, it is rather a commitment to a common European heritage, to historical structures. It was reserved for this government to lay down the state objectives in the Austrian Constitution. As in so many other cases, this government has taken years and decades of failure and has also put in place the decisive measures in accordance with the state objectives. It is therefore quite easy to see what Mrs Stoisits intends. I only regret that Mrs Stoisits makes such a subject a bad play – with herself as the main actor. But now also in Vienna to want to enforce the recognition of Burgenlandcroats as so-called Wiener Burgenlandcroats, only because a certain number of them live here, and be it only temporarily, does pass the original declaration of will completely. If one pursues its intentions logically, it even clearly undermines the idea of protection for an autonomous group, because that means consistently the same provisions and rights for any foreign-speaking minority, regardless of the size, since when this minority exists. A castle country Croatian is and remains a castle country Croatian, even though he lives in Vienna, but the protection of minorities concerns the original and historically recognized territory.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12408	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12430	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too am particularly pleased that Austria is now officially protecting minority languages and ratifying the Council of Europe's language Charter. It is certainly no coincidence that this step is now taking place under the leadership of our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] As with the bilingual town boards and official languages, the ÖVP/FPÖ government is setting up in this sensitive Further action, actions that others should have long had to take, because with the ratification of the European language charter, the government of Schüssel ultimately clears out the trauma of the "placeboard tower". [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] But this step is also very important for another reason, ladies and gentlemen. He should show our European partners very clearly and very clearly that we are committed to a Europe of the regions, that we are committed to a Europe of diversity, that we are committed to a Europe of tolerance. As a Burgenlander, I am particularly pleased about this very clear and visible confession, because four different language groups have always lived together harmoniously, namely German-speaking, Croatian, Hungary and Roma. Perhaps this is due to the fact that we Burgenländer are a very tolerant human being, but perhaps also to the fact that very long Hungarian and only after 1921 German was the majority language. In any case, the Burgenland proves: Where people and language groups really live together, prejudices are reduced, one is more tolerant with one another, and the language plays a very important role. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This also proves the Romance, the language of the Roma, which has actually received something like a writing image in recent years. If this language had not lived, one could never have written to the so-called Roma spokesperson. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, a clear commitment by the Austrian People's Party to the ratification of the European Charter of Minority Languages.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12493	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12514	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The Freedom Party welcomes this government template because it is another important contribution to the protection of the indigenous minorities and their culture in Austria. "Autochthon" – for those who should not know that – means "easing", "domestic". Foreign observers – opposition and media have often spoken of them as the "three wise men" in the past – have been publicly confirmed last year that our country has taken on a very important pioneering role in Europe on the issue of minority protection. Austrian minority policy is, and we all know, exemplary, the Austrian standards of minority protection are far above those of other countries. Mr Ahtisaari, Mr Oreja and Mr Frowein have noted this in their report last year, and this should also take note of the opposition, even if such findings may not fit completely into their world picture. Now to the Charter. This Charter of Regional or Minority Languages is an important contribution to the preservation of the culture of ethnic minorities for Europe as a whole. The object of protection of the agreement is the language, more precisely, the cultural task of the respective minority languages. Consciously, the Charter does not define the term "lingual minority". The rights of ethnic minorities are not derived from this either. But in the Preamble the goal is clearly defined: It is about protecting Europe's historically grown regional and minority languages, some of which threaten to disappear, as it is called in the Charter. But because these languages and these cultures are essential to the preservation and development of Europe's traditions and cultural wealth, they must and should be protected. I am convinced that we Austrians can accept this treaty with good conscience, but I am not so sure that in France or Spain there are exactly the same good conditions. Just think of the Basques, the Corsens, the Bretons or even the Alsaces! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Especially in France, ladies and gentlemen, the enforcement of ethnic minority rights has been very difficult in the past, because the French, the French official, are based on a completely different concept of people or nations than is common here in Central Europe, in Eastern or South-East Europe. Or do we think of Slovenia? Only a few days ago, the Austrian-Slovenian cultural agreement was signed. For the first time in the history of the Second Republic, the Austrian Federal Government has achieved the recognition of our old Austrian minority in the former Lower Austria in an official Slovenian document. Although it does not yet involve equality with the Hungarian and Italian minorities in Slovenia, it still lacks constitutional protection in the Slovenian Constitution, but it is a first hopeful sign. Perhaps Slovenia is slowly approaching the Austrian minority standards. Now it is also possible for the remnants of the old Austrian minority in Slovenia to conduct cultural events in their native language. This Charter, which we will decide today and which Slovenia has already ratified, can also protect the culture and language of our minority. Finally, I note: Everything that promotes the diversity of peoples and cultures is welcomed by us, everything that leads to this diversity is rejected by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12569	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the Committee's request to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with declarations in 437 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Stoisits, Mag. Mr Posch and Mr Comrades tabled an amendment which refers to the explanation. I shall first vote on this amendment with regard to the declaration and then on the request from the Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the present State Treaty and the Declaration. Deputies Mag. Stoisits, Mag. Posch and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the explanation, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it for a sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now come to the vote on the request of the Committee to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with declarations in 437 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I see the unanimity. The State Treaty is therefore adopted. I now turn to the Committee's request that the present State Treaty be applied within the meaning of Article 50(l) of the Treaty. 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I note that this is unanimously and unanimously accepted again. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits, Mag. Posch and comrades on the implementation of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on the motion for a resolution 215/A (E) by Mr Mag. Walter Poschund Comrades on the establishment of clearing posts (577 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12657	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Posch. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12684	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Our request for clearing sites is accepted by a particularly suffering group of asylum seekers, namely unaccompanied minor refugees, who are in a particularly tragic position who flee their homeland for fear of persecution and come here to Austria, mostly without language skills, mostly severely traumatized and in addition psychological-mentally not as solidified as adults. Although there has been no delay in under fourteen years of age, there are several hundred temporary workers each year who are between 14 and 19 years of age, although the provisions of § 66 of the Foreign Law are not to be applied as far as possible. The so-called clearing centres offer a central point of contact for underage refugees, who could be accommodated, relocated and adequately cared for there, with the possibility of developing future prospects for these refugees. At least such a job would be useful and necessary in our view. In principle, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ellmauer and Mr Ofner, which is intended to undermine our request, is right if the European Refugee Fund manages to succeed in implementing two to four pilot projects, involving asylum authorities, foreign police authorities and youth welfare agencies. I understand the difficulties you have with the federal construction of the Republic, and that it would not make it easy for you, Mr Minister, to set up such a clearing office in your federal state, but I would nevertheless ask you to join our request because it is the one that goes on. Our request provides for such a body in each federal state. He also intends not to impose the thrust on under 18-year-olds in principle, especially as this is contrary to the UN Convention on Children's Rights. Thirdly, our application also provides a legal solution for so-called paperless young people who have to live in Austria without their own debts without legal residence permits. That needs a legal repair long ago, and I therefore urge you to agree to our request! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12733	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12754	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I hope that the President has nothing against it, in two sentences, to deal with the previous item on the agenda, namely the feelings of Mrs Stoisits. I was not in the hall, but it has been told to me that she explained that I should not talk about the state objectives and their introduction for long, unless that was her idea alone. Resi, I think we can share the finder's wage. There were two Members who worked in this direction from the beginning: you – that's right! – and me too. But now comes the essential: We have spent years trying to implement our concerns in this direction, but we have only succeeded after the turn. That means you were in favour of introducing the state target, I was for that – perhaps others too, but we both were particularly articulated – but we were in vain on the road. Only after the turn has it been possible to put this milestone of popular policy into reality. That's it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now it is about clearing for minor asylum seekers and asylum seekers. I'd see this a little further: When minors come and go across state borders, this is not always for a political reason, not always for an asylum reason. Very common – that has also been the subject of antiquiet novels – young people also travel abroad for other reasons and then land there under not always gratifying circumstances. We have all had similar ideas in the Committee on the subject. Finally, the motion for a resolution by the government parties has been enforced. I can try to explain this with a few sentences. The Posch group has considered the accommodation and catering of refugees – in this respect we all agree, the representatives of the government parties – as well as the learning of the German language. I already know that, in connection with refugees, with workers coming to the country, there is also on our side the idea that the German language should be learned, but I believe that this must only be done if it appears to be certain in any form that the recipient in question also has a chance to stay in the country. As long as this is not determined as long as an asylum procedure – as we hope, is in progress only briefly – and one does not know whether it can stay here or has to come back again, as long as, I think, it would be a burden on the person concerned who should not really think it should learn the language. He is in a strange environment for him, he will need a roof over his head, he will need food, he will need clothing, he will need care in the human sense. It will also be about – and that was one of our concerns – trying to get in touch with his relatives in his home country, researching them, enabling or creating communication with them. But above all, the rapid clarification of its legal status is necessary – and if it is allowed to stay here, then the smooth and immediate integration in Austria! The reason for me to deal with these things a little bit more closely is: We have not been far apart with our concerns. It has, I believe, only given a different focus when it comes to the requirement that the language should be learned, especially in this respect, because we believe that the language should teach someone if he has a chance to stay here. As long as it doesn't determine whether to stay here or not, I think that would be an effort that can't be expected. But he's supposed to have a chance to get back into contact with his family in his home country. It will often be the regret that he went abroad at all. The vote then showed that the opposition party's request remained in the minority and that of the government parties, and so the Committee's report failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12811	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12833	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr. Dr. Ofner, we do not have to share the "finder's wage" because the finder's wage, if anyone is entitled to the state target, is for Switzerland, because Switzerland has introduced a similar provision carried by the spirit, which also has the Austrian State target in 1994. Parliamentary Stoisits has experienced this – there is the Internet and other communication media – and has submitted a request here in the National Council. This has nothing to do with copyright at all, but I have allowed myself to point out that the Greens have already submitted a request for a state target in the previous legislative period. The same thing is not known to me by the Freedom Party, nor by another. The SPÖ has demanded the vehement content, but for the well-known reasons it has never been implemented. – That is the finder’s wage, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister! As President of the Human Rights Committee, I should like to thank you very much for being present at our last meeting, having followed our invitation to the meeting, and for having the opportunity to address those human rights-related issues in the context of a current debate, because they cannot be fully discussed in such a short time – which seem to the members of the Human Rights Committee. I would also like to thank you for the information you have given us about the Human Rights Advisory Council. Finally, when the Human Rights Advisory Council – then still under Minister Schlögl – was set up here by Parliament, I expressed scepticism about the process, because I believe that complete independence – this has nothing to do with whether it is free of direction or not – is not a hundred percent given. I still have this scepticism today, but I must say that the work of the Human Rights Advisory Council is very much appreciated by all political groups – I have not yet heard really clear opinions from the liberals. Mr Minister, you have also told us that many or almost all of the recommendations made by the Human Rights Advisory Council have also been implemented. It should be noted that activities, investments in the human field are, in any case, correct and essential, especially as regards the safety aspect. The Human Rights Advisory Council is the best example of this because it also has a form of communication with the services, where I do not hear any criticism, which is to be observed by the public, but can be used in the necessary rest. That's why it's a bit painful for me now – and now I come to the clearing points – that demands from the Human Rights Advisory Council – one of his first reports has focused on the situation of minor workers – are not really implemented as one hears over and over again. It does not work, for example, with the information and understanding of the youth welfare provider when young people are insubstantial. These are not my personal perceptions now, but that is told to me by those who can perceive it at all. For example, a delegation from the Helsinki Federation recently visited Austria's penitentiary and found young people who had not even received a value card to contact anyone. – So it’s not all as golden as it seems to shine! The problem of young people in Schubhaft is still existing in Austria. I can't praise you or your predecessor for the fact that there's no more pushing among 14-year-olds. If it wasn't, it would be a huge scandal! Therefore, no one deserves praise if he eliminates such a humane and human rights-absorbed thing. It's a hopefully adjusted thing. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I am absolutely not satisfied with the motion for a resolution that the government parties have now tabled in amendment of the Posch proposal. That's all a little "Nona net"! Nona net will be used especially for young people – children are well known to be at the centre of this government – from the European Refugee Fund. In my opinion, there really is no need for a special request, because that seems to me to be almost logical. The intention of Posch's application was that the National Council should deliver a clear and clear opinion on the need for these clearing bodies to be available immediately and that the funding should be made available. I hear from Salzburg that you don't want to pay there and the question is whether this is necessary at all is a matter that doesn't fit me. That is why I really cannot give my assent to Mr Ofner's previously so praised result. That I also support your efforts, Mr Federal Minister, to support the work of the Human Rights Advisory Council – not only I personally, but also the Green Group – you know. But what we want to achieve in the National Council is meat for the work of executives and not watering down oppositional applications that really speak a very clear language. I'm sorry, but I can't help it. We cannot join this kind of policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12903	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12924	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the situation of underage refugees who come to Austria alone or are being picked up in Austria is worthy of improvement or expandable is undisputed. Since mid-2000, i.e. since the middle of last year, negotiations have been held with the federal states on the establishment of additional care institutions. The Ministry of the Interior has now drawn up proposals for such uniform care. In recent years, the countries have only dealt with this matter in a sub-ideal way, from the federal state to the federal state. It should now be standardized. The tasks of such care facilities are first of all the determination of the age and identity of young people and secondly the review of family conditions, which means as much: to consider whether they are a refugee or an age-related short-term operation of a youth who has left his home country without the knowledge of the parents due to problems at home. It is made in contact with the family and the situation is clarified precisely. If it is apparent from the verification of identity that a return to the established area of life of his family is desirable and possible, it should be granted. It is particularly important to ensure an old-age accommodation for the period of review and to ensure appropriate medical and mental care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Ministry of the Interior has accepted the problem. This does not mean, however, that the countries are deprived of their competences due to the federal construction of our Republic, but they are trying to find a permanent federal solution together with the countries. In order not to lose any time, Mrs Stoisits, the Ministry of the Interior is already beginning, this month, with funds from the European Refugee Fund, involving some federal states with pilot experiments to create the first clearing points. A total of up to four clearing points are planned in Austria. Pilot projects are planned in Upper Austria and Styria. After a twelve-month project duration, it will then be evaluated and the best-practice model determined. In order to express it clearly: The aim of these clearing centres is to create a first-time contact point for unaccompanied young people and to provide them with accommodation, food and psychological care, as well as to serve as a coordinating centre for asylum, foreign police and youth welfare. At the same time, it is also necessary to examine whether a return or an integration is useful. The introduction of clearing agencies is an urgent necessity that cannot be met by a flat-rate request of the opposition, which turns responsibility from the countries to the federal government, but is a common measure already implemented. The request made by Mr Posch is obsolete because the required planning for the establishment of clearing sites has been running for ten months and the implementation phase is already under way. The result will be indicative of the care of minor refugees. If the care of minor refugees is of great concern to you, I would ask you to give the request Ellmauer and Dr. Ofner your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e12982	Next, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13003	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Human Rights Advisory Council is doing excellent work, not only in reviewing human rights in our police work, but also in consulting the Minister. It is completely pointless and uninfluenced. The only thing we can and do is make the money available for it. The results – I also place value on it – will be implemented gradually. In this way, we have been able to report to the Committee that more than a third has already been implemented, another third is being implemented, another quarter will be implemented – in this respect already the timetables – and that there are individual recommendations, a total of seven, where we want to go the way to the Human Rights Advisory Council once again, because we have other documents and want to balance them. One of the points to be implemented from our point of view is the first contact point for unaccompanied young people. It must also be clear and is also known here that this is a task of the countries. Nevertheless, the Federal Government and the Ministry are willing to help not only organizationally, mentally, but also financially. So we took money from the European Refugee Fund and added it to a second third of the Ministry of the Interior's Austrian money. But a third, our idea, is that the countries must contribute to this overall approach. We need the country's commitment to these bodies, including with regard to their competence. On the basis of their political decision, we will be able to implement it across the board. As my previous speaker said, we assume that we will start some pilot projects – we start from two to three – in Austria before the summer to learn together and send a signal about how important these new clearing sites are for unaccompanied young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13038	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13060	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of clearing facilities for unaccompanied young refugees is not about an act of voluntary benefit, but about years of maladministration and the enforcement of a right to human rights under international law and the enforcement of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which complements the UN Convention on Human Rights. I am very glad that clearing sites are now being set up. I am nevertheless very sorry that our request, which was a further one, does not find the majority. Dr. Ofner, it has not only been a question of saying that young people who stay longer in a clearing site should also take a language course must be employed. We are also concerned – above all, with our points – that there are clearing points in every federal state, that there is no deportation of youthful refugees, and that – that seems to me to be very important – there is a legal status for young people who cannot be postponed, because war law exists in their home countries or other reasons. Minister! You know, there are a whole bunch of such young people here in Austria. I would like to quote a letter that landed on my desk saying: "Ely James fled from Sierra Leone to Austria at the end of 1997 at the age of 15 1⁄2 years, after his parents had been killed by rebels. As with most unaccompanied minor asylum seekers, the asylum process has lasted for years now, he has not been recognized as a Convention refugee. His application is currently before the Administrative Court on the basis of a decision of the second time. Although Ely James may stay in Austria until the decision, he must not do a regulated job, so he must live on 2 000 S of support, and so on. "Because he definitely adheres to the laws, he does not do any black work either. From July he has to clear his accommodation, and then he no longer gets the above-mentioned pocket money. As of July, he will have to finance his livelihood entirely and rent a room." – And here it is appealed to allow this young man a job in seasonal work at least. I think there must be a solution in cases where young people live in Austria for years under very difficult conditions. A second area: Many believe that this does not concern so many cases. A 1997 study shows that this year about 400 unaccompanied young people came to Austria, one of them being eight years old, two children ten years old, two children 13 years old, nine children 14 years old, 21 people 15 years old, 57 years old. Of course, the number of older people is greater. Yet, this is a relatively large group of children who are traumatized who have escaped from a war zone that has lost their parents or have been severely abused. I think that in this case it is really necessary to enable child-friendly accommodation. The youth welfare offices are here to do this. Professionals must be involved. I hope that we can consider how the clearing agencies, which are now set up with EU funds, can be financed longer. When I look at what is happening worldwide in wars and major disasters, I fear that the number of young people who have to flee to our country will not decrease. I think Austria is doing well to welcome and accommodate these young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13110	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13131	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Appreciate ladies and gentlemen to the noises of hearing! I have noted with a certain degree of amazement that colleague Jäger said clearing sites were a long-standing failure. I recall that the Interior Ministers of the past called Schlögl, Löschnak, One, Blecha and so on, and their term of office covered a period that reached almost my age. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has acquired a very positive reputation in recent decades when it comes to the reception of refugees. Austria has not only received much more refugees per head of population in relation to other countries, but has also been massively side by side with these people in difficult times. I remember the crises in the Czech Republic, Hungary and so on. How significant such help is can only be judged by someone who was or was affected himself. I would therefore like to stress this very explicitly, because my father, my grandfather and my grandmother also came as refugees to Austria and were also admitted to Austria in the most difficult times, for which I personally thanked very much, because this was not a matter of course during the difficult post-war times. Most of them suffer from such extreme situations as war and similar conflicts, especially young people, especially those who had to flee the crisis region without family protection and assistance. It is also clear that every system is worthy of improvement. That is why we are discussing today the establishment of an institution to assist these young people, namely the clearing bodies already mentioned. The introduction of clearing points is an urgently necessary requirement, which does not pass on the task of the countries to the federal government by means of a flat-rate request, as required by the opposition, but is a project prepared by our Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs for months, of course, with massive involvement of all federal states. A country working group has therefore been set up since December of the previous year. In spite of different starting situations, the countries agreed on a concept which provides for full agreement on common positions. A total of up to four clearing points are planned in Austria. Pilot projects are intended to identify the best model and, of course, to ensure an old-age accommodation as part of the review of the identity of young people. We call on you to go here to see that the unaccompanied youth can return to his home country or that the young refugee will be integrated into our society. The aim is to create another positive mosaic stone in the Austrian refugee policy with these starting points for young people. That is why Austria is also ready to spend 34 million schillings on this with the support of the European Refugee Fund from federal and regional resources. Ladies and gentlemen! Our Ministry of the Interior has prepared the Clearing Point project solidly in cooperation with the countries under customary sovereign leadership through our Federal Minister Dr. Strasser. I therefore call for your support for the request of Mr Ofner and Mr Ellmauer. Let us put a common sign, let us give young people hope again!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13178	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13199	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I very much agree with my previous speaker, Mr Hornek, when he says that young people have to be given a chance. That is why we agree with Mr Posch's request. It is also about an opportunity to see exactly what it is about, what we are talking about, for whom something is to happen and what measures to take. What are we talking about here? – The issue is that the number of young people who apply for asylum in Austria has not fallen in the past but has increased. In the first two months of this year there were 170 new asylum applications from minors in Vienna alone. Compared to the previous year, this is an increase of 100 percent. That means that it is right and necessary that these clearing sites are now set up. That's basically what we welcome. But that the two government fractions cannot approach the fact that they say that with minors, I really cannot understand, in principle, the impoverishment of the pushy. Already in the Convention on Children's Rights, which also signed in Austria, it is clear that action must be taken: adequate protection of the refugee child, humanitarian aid, special protection and assistance of the State, appropriate childcare facilities, and there should also be continuity. These are things that are really not guaranteed in the pushy. Therefore, these clearing sites are a good approach. I also welcome the projects that exist in this context. To this end, as a comment, the question: Is such a clearing site also planned for Carinthia? – Kärntner Landeshuptmann is always one who is in a certain way very friendly to strangers. [[Abg. Pistottig: Is he too!]] I would be interested to hear from the speakers who are still coming – from the ÖVP or perhaps also from the FPÖ – whether this is also planned for Carinthia. In my opinion, there is no such thing as this at present. Let me return once again to the points in Mr Posch's request, to which the government groups cannot join, namely, that in the case of minor refugees, they should in principle refrain from being pushed. I wonder – and you haven't answered this to me today – why don't you say in principle: No, minors don't belong in chagrin, they need proper care, they need – as Mr. Ofner said – clothing, care and something to eat. This also needs those who are in Austria without having papers, the so-called paperless young people. That's why I'm wondering why you're here. They are otherwise for families and for the protection of children, not that there should also be a general legal solution for "paperless" young people who are without their own fault and without proper residence status in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are probably thoughts and attitudes behind it, which I believe have been expressed in the debate contribution of Dr. Ofner, regarding his image of the refugees. He said earlier in his speech that it was necessary to ensure that when young people are here, they are again in contact with their home country. In principle, there is nothing to object to if there is a chance that they will be able to return there at all. But the picture that Dr. Ofner seems to have of young people shows that he has said: If there is contact with the home country again, there will also be regret that they have ceased. Dr. Ofner! This implies that you think that these are not really refugees, but that they want to look at what it looks like in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Will be so with many!]] They explore the fact that young people do not like to leave voluntarily but are persecuted. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What should a 15-year-old...?]] Perhaps you will explore the fact that young people's human rights are being violated in some countries, so that young people's lives are no longer safe and have to go away. This is your picture: You mean, it's all those who want to see what it's like here, and if they don't like it, they're going to leave again – according to the motto: From Jux and Tollery we go to Austria and see how life is there. This is also in line with the position of Members of the Liberal Group in the Committee. There it meant that the learning of the German language during the period in which the minor has not yet received an answer or a positive decision on the application for asylum is not to be foreseen as a measure of integration. Dr. Ofner, you even said: This is a burden on those concerned, which is an unreasonable requirement. – But especially young people do much easier with learning languages than we do older ones. In the previous discussion, someone from ÖVP and FPÖ even said that languages are an enrichment. So why can't these young people learn German if they're here in Austria for several months? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then I assume that you will stand for the Westenthal application, foreigners should be German...!]] – Because, as your colleague Freigaßner suggests, when the asylum application is rejected, she returns to Austria illegally, because they can already get German. If they've learned German, they'll be back soon. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You have a strange parallel to the Westenthaler MP: Learn German!]] They assume here from the picture that these young people really come from Jux and Tolery to Austria and do not need our support. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Westenthaler – Lunacek!]] That is why you are not in favour of these young people getting a regulated residence status, and therefore you seem not to be in favour of the fact that minors are generally not subject to the blame. I'm very sorry. It would have been a chance you'd be taking a different position here. Nevertheless, it is good that there is a first step towards these clearing points. As far as the language and image of the young minors is concerned, I think there is still a lot of work to be done. Unfortunately, the vote will be taken. This time, you do not agree with our request, or Mr Posch's request, in order not to accept it here. Maybe it'll succeed next time.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13312	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13333	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With regard to the need to set up clearing facilities for the care of minor refugees and asylum seekers, in principle all parties here in Parliament agree. A corresponding commitment was also made by the Federal Minister today. Unfortunately, there are different opinions about the number of these posts. These clearing sites will mainly be a central point of contact for minor refugees. As we have to say, in the large group of refugees and asylum seekers, the unaccompanied minors take a particularly tragic position. They come mostly without language knowledge, after a long and difficult flight from their homeland, where they were or are being persecuted, fought and arrived at the border of their loadability in our Austria. In many cases, the impoverishment of the suspender entails a further deterioration of its ever-tried situation. However, 14-19-year-olds are always taken into such a situation. This is particularly regrettable in so far as it is normized as § 66 of the Foreign Law. According to the text of the law, the suspension of minors is to be an exception and the relief of the rule. Unfortunately, it is in many cases reversed. We are pleased to agree that, in addition to accommodation and the necessary food, the clearing sites to be created should also be able to learn German. In three points, however, our request differs from that of ÖVP and FPÖ. These are very important points. First of all, the SPÖ application provides for the establishment of such a contact point, a clearing point in each federal state. Secondly, in the case of minor refugees, i.e. 14-19-year-olds, one should generally refrain from the suspension of the detention. Thirdly, a general legal solution should also be found for "paperless" young people who have come to Austria with their parents or relatives without their own faults. These children and young people do not have a legal residence permit under current legislation. In my opinion, these three points are very important and essential for those affected and also severely affected young refugees, but unfortunately, as we have already heard today, they are rejected by the two government parties. We welcome and support the involvement of asylum authorities, youth welfare institutions and NGOs in these clearing areas. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! With the many similarities on this item on the agenda with regard to the introduction of clearing sites, you should not find it difficult to jump once over your shadows and, as you announce, to make politics with heart for the benefit of the affected and affected minor refugees.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13388	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13409	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I think you remember that I wrote you a letter last December. You answered me in January of this year. I would have been very grateful if you had become clearer here in your debate on the background to the creation of clearing sites. But I also understand that you have not been able to do so, because at the same time you would have given evidence of why your motion for a resolution, the request of the government parties, has been kept at any rate. How does the situation look? . We have known for more than a year that the negotiations are taking place and that nothing is going on there. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] We also know the certain federal states, which "thankfully" mix properly so that nothing does and nothing goes on. It is also quite clear to me that Members are going out of here and suddenly say: a maximum of four clearing points! – Sure, the other federal states will not be ready to do so. Mrs Zierler! What about your "simple party member" in Carinthia? Will there be a clearing site there? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Of course!]] - I don't think so. It is also significant that Mr. Ellmauer goes out here and leads the Styria and Upper Austria as the first pilot projects. We all know how difficult the situation in Vienna is that Vienna is at the edge of the capacity for recordings, that it urgently needs projects and also federal co-financing. [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign again.]] Vienna is the only state that has taken this task seriously so far and has also submitted offers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Go to the competence center! Look If you are looking at the situation there, you can be described by the experts, the caretakers and the caretakers. Perhaps the heart will open up to you a little more – on the occasion of your "heart" policy. If you read the "Falter" of last week, you will find there all that it really is about, the drama and the real concerns of the young people who live here. What is also very remarkable is that German courses are of course being conducted in this competence center for young people in Vienna. Minister! It would be very helpful if you would also offer Paroli to the speeches of the liberals here. The debate on German education in this context is truly not understandable – I have already said it in committee. This would imply that all our young people, if they are learning English at school, want to emigrate to England or America. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ha, a humbug like that!]] Mr. Haigermoser! What do you have against foreign language teaching? – What young people need here is a future perspective, no matter where they will or want to spend their more life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Does the Westenthal always say!]] Give these young people the chance to take advantage of this very, very hard time! Let them live a decent life! That's why another appeal. Your first step – okay, we take notice of him, but he has been very thin and very poor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13512	Next, Mr. Bundesminister, Dr. Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13542	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of Mrs Prammer's suggestion, I am very willing to provide detailed information here. [[Abg. May. Prammer: We will take you by word!]] By February 2001, there were differing views of the federal states in this respect. Since February 2001, there has been in principle the consent of all federal states to pursue this concept. Unfortunately, before February 2001, a state had not given its approval. This state is called Burgenland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13591	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We shall now proceed to the vote, and we shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 577 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 577 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is also the majority and thus adopted. (E 82.) 4. Point Health Committee report on the Government template (421 of the supplements): Agreement on the Enforcement of Patient Rights (Patent Charter) (556 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13663	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. As First of all, Mr Lacner, has been mentioned. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13690	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that patient rights are an important part of a comprehensive and high-quality health care and the rule of law should be undisputed in this House. It has always been a concern of social democracy to guarantee and develop patient rights. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Of course, this will not change from our side in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13724	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask for a little consideration for the speaker. I know we are in the process of a urgent request, and that is why there may already be discussions in this direction. Now we have another item on the agenda. I think Mr Manfred Lacner's statements deserve to be heard.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13748	I would like to thank the President for providing me with the House's attention. Ladies and gentlemen! The current Article 15a agreement on the protection of patient rights, also called the Charter of Patients, contains those provisions of patient law which I would like to quote briefly: first of all, the right to treatment and care, second, the right to respect dignity, thirdly, the right to self-determination and information, and, of course, special provisions for children, with the right to take a reference person too swimming. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of this patient charter and will, of course, also give it the approval today. In principle, however, Dr. Pumberger said that a federal uniform regime would certainly be better and more desirable, because it really does not depend on state governments, how patient rights can be looked forward to in the future and whether and how patient rights can be guaranteed. I would also like to refer from this point of view to the issue of enforcement, Dr. Pumberger. I think we're in agreement here too. Ladies and gentlemen! The current situation of claims for damages that patients have to pay for possible misdemeanors by doctors is unbearable to me and should be replaced very quickly by a debt-independent medical liability. This should be borne by a risk community with the exception of patients. I am here in a prominent society, because no one less than Mr. State Secretary himself has said in the Health Committee that he too sees the current situation as not very satisfactory and that he also wants to seek a different solution, away from a patient and a carrier burden. The Secretary of State will, of course, receive our support for Hiefor this. I think that's the way in the right direction. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision-making of this patient charter is, if you wish, the consistent continuation of a work already started among the Federal Socialist ministers. It was our way in health policy to constantly develop it for the benefit of people in this country. Now, ladies and gentlemen, in this area, people are unfortunately in a state of stagnation and a step back. It is probably also clear – at least for me – that you did not want to discuss the health report for the years 1996 to 1998 in plenary, because this health report, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, is a testimony to an excellent health policy of social-democratic influence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You cannot point to such successes, ladies and gentlemen, so you are also afraid of the comparison in this House – that is a pity, I would have liked this comparison to take place today – and that is why the finalisation in the Committee is taking place, with the exclusion of the public. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13817	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13839	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lackner, you would prefer a single federal arrangement, you say. However, I doubt that, because this required a constitutional majority, we would have the approval of the opposition, even if you are now saying that you want a uniform federal regime. Ten years ago – ten years of SPÖ health policy! – ten years ago, the suggestion was that, after there was no uniform federal regime, patient rights were strengthened and secured at the level of the Article-15a agreement. Ten years of SPÖ government, SPÖ health policy, and nothing has happened at this time, absolutely nothing! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Yes, Mr Ofner, it is almost impossible to praise, because it is sad if nothing happens for ten years. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But the finding was so important that I had to praise!]] Thank you, Mr. Ofner! Thank you! It has required the advance of the re-elected head of state of Carinthia: Dr. Jörg Haider as the newly elected head of state has first signed this patient charter, and on that basis this agreement between Carinthia and the Federation was concluded. As a result, almost all the liberal country clubs in the Landtags submitted applications, but this was rejected by the majority – the SPÖ and partly also the ÖVP. The same applications were then made with a certain period of time by the then government parties – for example by the SPÖ in Burgenland, for example, what we decide today – and now it is right. It must not only be possible for patient rights to be strengthened on the initiative of the liberals. But it's good that we're making free national policy in Carinthia, that we have the leadership there, and that Jörg Haider has made this excuse. Now the patients have come to their right! A second federal state, namely the Burgenland, has joined this liberal demand, and now the government template for the Federal State of Upper Austria has already been completed, and I am very pleased. [[Complaints with Members of the Liberals]] [[New condolences with representatives of the liberals.]] Stunning – juicy! – is the state of Vienna with the absolute SPÖ majority, this is quite no matter what patient rights. [[Call at the SPÖ: In Vienna it is best!]] Just as SPÖ Health Policy has hardly done anything about patient rights for 30 years, it is now the mayor of Häupl that still does not matter whether the patient rights of this contract are concluded at the level of an Article-15a agreement between the Federal Government and Vienna. In Vienna, there is not yet the slightest intention that this contract will come about. [[Call at the SPÖ:Vienna has the best regulation!]] I would like you, instead of these incompetent intermediate calls, to finally help head of state Häupl a little on his legs so that he finally takes care of patient rights – patient rights that need to be strengthened! In this Charter, ladies and gentlemen, the right to treatment and care is laid down. I really do come to the point of content, because that is what you, Mr Lacner, have failed to do: It should be the same access to necessary medical services for all citizens – regardless of age, which sex, which faith – as well as the right to respect for dignity and integrity. That is a very important thing, ladies and gentlemen. Patients' privacy needs to be safeguarded. This is often neglected in hospitals today. In the gang beds, for example, or in multi-bed rooms, it is very often not possible to observe the privacy of the patients – or it is simply not done. Furthermore, the right to self-determination and information, to sufficient information for patients in the sense that they are informed about the necessary interventions that are pending that the patient will also be properly informed about the treatment the doctors are planning with him and that he himself can determine what is being done with him. That's a very important thing. Already existing patient rights are already written in partial laws, but now there is an obligation between the federal government and the federal states of Carinthia and now the Burgenland and soon Upper Austria the self-determination of the patients. The right to documentation is also very important. – Mr Leiner; you nod. I know you want to say that right now: The documentation is very important! – But after the emergency, you can confirm this again: Documentation is important – not only among doctors in the established area, but also in the hospital area. The doctors have to write this down. This documentation is very important for patients because it may be used for evidence purposes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner has documents in his hand and, standing between the front bank lines, clearly waits for the end of the statements of the Fig. Dr. Pumberger.]] Mr. Leiner, it hardly pays off for you anymore. You can be of use all the time after the emergency. Before the President interrupts, I say that it is very important that children's rights be strengthened in this patient charter, that the education of those entitled to education be written down, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer is just entering the meeting room.]] – To the urgent one he comes, with patient rights he was absent. Patient rights are obviously not so important for the SPÖ – I have already mentioned them in your absence. The head of state Häupl is the tallest of the totals among the chiefs of the state, which leads to patient rights. Tell him – I repeat it again: Heupl will finally push forward this article-15a agreement! The rights of children in the hospital system must be strengthened, and an important point is the education of those entitled to education and the education of the minors. That's very important! The representation of patient interests is set out in this Charter, as is the position of independent patient representatives. In order to be able to represent the interests of patients, non-wisdom patient representatives must be used. There must also be wisdom-free, independent self-help groups. This is very, very important, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The enforcement of claims for damages is also important. There must be an improvement in the limitation period and a derogation from the right of compensation should in any case be made in favour of the patient. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These important points, which I have now listed, are all set out in the Charter, as an agreement at Article-15a level between the Federal Government and the federal states. I call on the sumptuous federal states, first and foremost the state of Vienna, governed by an absolute SPÖ majority, to finally accede to this Article-15a agreement and to consolidate the rights of the patients also in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13939	The next speaker is Mr Leiner. Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that only about two minutes are available, and I would ask you to pass the speaking time accordingly or to continue your speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e13960	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear Members of the Government! I would have been more prepared – or have been advised accordingly – in itself, but for reasons of time I would just like to point out that this Charter of Patient Law has a past. The problems in this context have already been resolved very early by various laws, and the agreement with the individual countries – the Carinthia had been exemplified here – brought together all these laws. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I think that's a good thing. Although these patient rights are documented in many country rights and also in federal laws, they are now summarized accordingly in these agreements with the countries. The This way, it will be more transparent and, if there are gaps, they can also be closed accordingly. Upper Austria, the Styria and Lower Austria have recognised the importance of this matter and have already given their consent to a degree. From Tyrol, positive signals have already come, and in Salzburg I will be aware that there are such positive signals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This Charter of Patient Law is for the patients, and therefore the individual countries should be really interested in following the forerunners Carinthia and Burgenland – in the interests of the patients and for the good of our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14006	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda at 15.02 a.m. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alexander Van der Bellenand Comrades to the Federal Government on freedom of the press and opinion (430/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14036	We now come to deal with a urgent request. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14127	Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14149	Mr President. High house! With some amazement and amazement, we have seen that the Federal Chancellor is not willing to appear on this debate as part of a urgent request to the Federal Government. We therefore consider this to be an affront towards the House, because this request is addressed to the entire Federal Government, and in our opinion – and not only in our opinion – it is clear that the Federal Chancellor has the responsibility to assume here, and not the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I also recall that on the occasion of a urgent request from the Liberal Party to the Federal Government, we already had such a debate and the then Clubobmann Stadler was very keen on the fact that the Federal Government can only be represented by the German Chancellor – and not by a State Secretary. And I also remember – and that is why we are particularly concerned about it – that, in contrast to the German Chancellor's climate, Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel has taken his responsibility seriously in such cases, while Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima has been regularly represented in urgent inquiries. Today, however, it is not a urgent question to the Federal Chancellor, but it is a urgent request to the entire Federal Government. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Our aim was and is that on this issue, which is not uninteresting for the Republic, not the Secretary of State, but the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has to exercise this general competence of the Federal Government. I therefore ask you, Mr President – and you know what injuria you were thinking of at the time by Mr Klubobmann Stadler, because you have only dared to point out that the business regulations are not so clear – to interrupt a short presidential process, because this process is really more unique.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14198	Mr Dr. Khol spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14219	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The question is clear and needs no clarification in the presidential. The urgent request is addressed to the Federal Government, the Federal Government is represented by the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor is represented in his entire field of competence and responsibility on the basis of the federal constitution by the State Secretary. This is the result of § 18 of the Rules of Procedure. In the proven Zägernitz Commentary, it is also precisely cited that the State Secretary is hereby appointed to represent the entire field of competence, et cetera. [[Abg. Oils: Secretary!]] And that is why, I believe, we should go into the matter; that's not how important it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14258	For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14279	For the first time, Mr President, it is significant that the clubman of the ÖVP believes that the responsibilities of the Federal Chancellor are not so significant. But I can point out that Article 69 of the Federal Constitution is quite clear. Article 69 of the Federal Constitution states that the Federal Chancellor has two functions: One is to be the head of the department. – In this area, of course, he can also be represented by the Secretary of State, who has been attached to him. However, he is still chairman of the Federal Government over the activities of the Head of State as head of the Federal Chancellor's Office. And as chairman of the Federal Government, this question was put to him. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: request, not request!]] Therefore, Mr President, no representation by the competent State Secretary is permitted in this context. The Federal Chancellor is not represented in this debate. This is an intolerable state, and I therefore ask that the sitting be suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14318	The same topic: Mr. Dr. Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14339	Mr President. The procedure adopted by the Federal Government in this urgent request is correct and covered by the Rules of Procedure. There is no need for any action in respect of interruption. In this context, I would just like to remind you that this Rules of Procedure, which apply today, were then decided by the Greens, Liberals, the Socialists and the ÖVP – against the votes of the Freedom Party. We wanted a different regulation at the time, but we couldn't get through. Today, we will have the same rules of procedure that you, ladies and gentlemen, have decided to apply, and that is it. I would think that on these questions, just because you're in the opposition, you shouldn't be so sad.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14378	May I ask who will represent the Federal Chancellor in the direction of the government bank? [[State Secretary Morak has that hand.]] – Mr Morak State Secretary, yes. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we have discussed this question before, and it is also true that at today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor could not be represented by the Vice-Chancellor, because he is abroad. As far as I remember – if someone should argue this, he would have to express it – then, when we discussed this issue in the presidential session, we approved the representation by a State Secretary. There is no difference between a urgent request and a urgent request. So if it was so – I can't verify it now in speed, because I don't have any documents at hand – if my memory doesn't deceive me that we haven't followed the resistance of the liberals of the argument that a State Secretary is not authorized to represent, then I can't decide to take a different position now when we represented them at the presidential conference. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Same right for everyone!]] This is my opinion on your speech, Mr Oellinger. I would therefore suggest that we should, at least, start negotiations on the urgent question as the first speaker, Mr Deputies. Van der Bellen is. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Urgency!]] – I correct: Request for urgent procedure. I give the honourable Member Van der Bellen... – Do you want to make an application for business treatment? [[Abg. May. Kogler: motion for a resolution!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14446	Mr President. Dear colleagues! Regardless of the Rules of Procedure, it is, I believe, undisputed that this is a politically so important causa that it is no longer reasonable for the Chancellor to remain silent here in the house. For this reason, the Green Group submits according to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure the request for the presence of the Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14482	There is no doubt that this application is admissible. I shall therefore vote on this request. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign on this point. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Minority stand!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Salto mortale!]] – The request did not find a majority, it was rejected. [[Call the ÖVP:Show again!]] Mr Van der Bellen spoke. The speaking time is limited by 20 minutes from the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14542	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with a urgent request concerning freedom of the press and opinion in Austria. Of course, it is a bad sign that the Federal Chancellor and Party Minister of the ÖVP does not find it worth the effort and has no desire to participate in such a debate, it is not worth the effort to appear here in the House on the subject of press freedom in this country. And there has also been no need for any member of the ÖVP and no member of the FPÖ to explain why the Federal Chancellor does not find it worth the effort to appear here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have heard about Mrs Vice-Chancellor, who would be responsible for his representation, that she is located abroad and therefore cannot appear naturally. Why the Federal Chancellor does not appear is obviously completely in the dark. This is all the more remarkable than we are debating today about the massive attempts of intimidation and the massive attempts of the criminalisation of media representatives and of representatives of the opposition. One would think that this would be important enough for the Federal Chancellor not to say anything about it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'd like to say beforehand what it's not about today: It is not about the great convergence of the reform of the criminal code. We all know that this question has been in existence for years, if not for decades. The Greens, too, have held a survey on this issue in Parliament six years ago, published in 1996 under the title "Reform of the Criminal Procedural Procedure". – The need for reform is therefore undisputed. But that's not what it's all about today! That is what the government parties are talking about on the fundamental issues of the liberal rule of law and whether the government parties are prepared to give their full natural commitment to the fundamentals of the liberal rule of law, namely, first of all, to the natural right to free coverage by newspapers and other media, second, to the right of course to free opinion in this country, third, Mr Westenthal, to naturally express their right to free opinion in that country – because that is a fundamental difference: I must not only have my opinion in the silent chamber, but also publicly express it – fourthly to the natural right of opposition to exercise control tasks and right to be reported on – yes, I am talking about Austria, Mr Westenthalenthaler! – that free media communicate to the public the results of this activity, and of course to the right of journalists to research independently and to report on the results of this activity. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you talking about Austria?]] This is called investigative journalism outside the Austrian state borders, Mr. Westenthaler. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have forgotten something: the right to breakfast at the ANA Grand Hotel!]] I'd like to say, these are trivialities. You want to think that's "no na" stuff. One would like to say: What is he talking about? That is a matter of course! Naturalities in Austria? – Unfortunately, they are not! This is not a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, I would particularly like to address you. Of the FPÖ, we are not used to anything but we are currently experiencing, but I have not yet given up every hope with you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now to the occasion of today's urgent request. In the autumn of last year, the debate on the so-called Spittel scandal was completely ignited. [[Abg. Böhacker:... pipecreper!]] There was a suspicion that certain FPÖ politicians are involved in this peak scandal. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a malicious...!]] – You heard what I said: Suspected, Mr. Col. [[Abg. Böhacker:... correct!]] At the time, a key representative of the FPÖ said that a FPÖ politician, a FPÖ member on a question in this regard, i.e. because of development in the Spittel scandal, had never been convicted of having been shown to have been involved in the Spittel scandal. As a result, Mr. Pilz moved on to the 4th place. A press conference was held in October 2000 and, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, said: This claim is wrong. This claim is false. There is a FPÖ politician, a member of the Lower Austrian Parliament who has been legally sentenced to a fine for an illegal ECIS question, i.e. illegally acquired data, by a disciplinary court. That's proven! Now, eight months later, in May 2001, everything points to the fact that the government parties, in particular the FPÖ, make every effort to cover up the peak scandal – among other things, the surveys against Stadler and Haider – but, Mr Westenthal, against the decks, against the controlling politicians, against the media representatives who dared to report on it, against these mere rapporteurs, a criminal proceedings is initiated by the public prosecutor or the competent authorities in accordance with § 301 of the Criminal Code. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't cover that up because every day something is set!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You have to imagine this: It is not only against Members of the Pilz who, by the way, said that the fact was clearly correct at the time, that it is determined, but also against those journalists who have also reported it. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you know the criminal framework when you're infringing the secret?]] And for the wider public, I may add that this section 301 threatens those affected by six months of imprisonment or the corresponding fines. You really have to break that on your tongue! A MP gives a press conference, present journalists report about it – and for fulfilling their duty, the journalists, they now face the threat of six months of imprisonment. – I have not yet been accommodated in my career as a politician by such an insolent attempt at intimidating and criminalising media representatives and members of the opposition! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The intention behind this is a transparent one: First of all, you will kill free reporting, and at the same time you have done the opposition work. What is opposition work without public? You have to imagine what that means when this example makes school! Ladies and gentlemen! It is only against this background that it is understandable why the now notorious § 56 criminal procedure, the § 56 presented by Minister Böhmdorfer, has caused such excitement. This section 56 threatens to quote from files of judicial proceedings with severe penalties. Under "normal circumstances" it could be discussed. With "normal circumstances", I mean a liberal, well-founded rule of law and a Minister of Justice with high reputation in this area. In such a situation, this would never have led to this excitement. It would then have been possible to discuss it: Yes, there are protected rights of third parties, there are problems in this context, and we must ensure that this information is not misused. But we have no "normal conditions" in this sense! We haven't had them since last year. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have no longer had it since that famous press conference by Jörg Haider and Minister Böhmdorfer, which took place just a year ago, when it came to the question of whether oppositional Members who criticise the government could not and should not be persecuted with the help of criminal law, what Minister Böhmdorfer in a first reaction called "a follow-up idea". [[Members of the Liberals and the ÖVP stand in groups between their banks and talk to each other.]] But that wasn't the only thing. We now have a wide mosaic of building blocks of the experiment...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14713	Wait a minute, colleague Van der Bellen! We thank God enough seats here in the house, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's a joke!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: They don't want to!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Mr Schweitzer! "Content of Conduct"!]] - Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14768	Thank you, Mr President. If you would add the seconds to my speaking time, I'd be glad if I needed them, which I hope not. Thus, under normal circumstances one could discuss this § 56, but we do not have these "normal circumstances". Among other things, we have a Minister of Justice, Böhmdorfer, who says no more than – he said more, but I would rather not say so; he says, among other things, the following: In Austria we do not need an investigative journalism! In other words: In Austria, we do not need journalists who are self-evident to reveal inconsistencies or even scandals. So why do you have to protect them? Mr Böhmdorfer, I would recommend that you read today's opinion of the President of the Trade Union for Journalists in the APA, which, among other things, says – I quote – that: "Behind the action is a political will, and that is: The media should no longer reveal the scandals in which the FPÖ is involved." [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Mr Khol, I repeat, "in which the FPÖ is involved"; Mr. Khol, who is now shaking your head: For the time being, not the ÖVP! – And you cover it! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you believe all of this?]] You cover § 56 and § 301, if you subsequently do not agree to our request – and I must fear that. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's all in the "Constitutional Arch"!]] I have to fear this seriously. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Good thing you believe...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't think all of this is right!]] Mr Khol! This procedure according to § 301 of the StGB, if it is now formally initiated against journalists in particular, will come to an immeasurable end at the latest in Strasbourg at the latest – at the latest in Strasbourg! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You know that all this is wrong!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] § 301 StGB clearly contradicts the Convention on Human Rights; if you want to know exactly: Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights. And the Convention on Human Rights, Mr. Colleague and – if I am not mistakenly – the Constitutional Judge Khol is part of the Austrian Federal Constitution! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you know Paragraph 2?]] – We will then discuss it! - I know him. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Paragraph 2 of Article 10?]] I even know the report of the "three wise men" in which Article 10 plays a very important role and Austria is held. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't know what you're talking about!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Khol has put up the "Constitutional Arch" again elsewhere!]] This procedure is therefore illegal and unconstitutional! And Austria or the Federal Government will be blaming with this procedure at the latest in Strasbourg. But when? We all know how long it will take until such a procedure ends. This comfort is too weak for the Greens, for, as I believe, the Social Democrats, but especially for the journalists concerned. And therefore, for this reason, we are making this urgent request today, which, at its core, says nothing else than that: § 56 of the draft criminal code and § 301 of the current criminal code must be amended in such a way that misuse of use against freedom of expression, against freedom of expression, against the liberal rule of law in that country cannot occur. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Khol! If you do not agree to this request... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I don't agree!]] - You don't agree with him! I'm looking forward to your reasoning. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: After your reasoning, not quite! You don't know what you're talking about!]] I am really excited how you can refuse to establish the foundations of the liberal rule of law in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not the point! § 301 has existed for many years!]] - That's what it's all about. That's right! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e14988	Mr Morak spoke on an opinion on the urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15009	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! Let me begin by quoting my response to this urgent request. [[Call the SPÖ: An actor performance!]] Where is the problem, Mr Deputies? [[Call at SPÖ:The director...!]] "In accordance with our mandate and on the basis of a thorough investigation, it is our well-balanced view that the Austrian government is in favour of the common European values." [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Then talk to your people!]] – With this sentence, the summary of the report of the "three wise men" of the 8th Annual Report referred to in the present urgent request begins on several occasions. [[Abg. May. Posch: The Lord Emperor...!]] September 2000. – Just so much for your comment, honourable Member. [[Abg. May. Posch: Incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think you will agree that freedom of the press and opinion are among the "common European values". Therefore, according to the "wise" values, the general standards of freedom of expression and press in this country of Austria seem to me to be very similar to those appropriate for a Member State of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I would like to draw your attention to another section of the White Report, which is obviously missing from your valued attention: In point 11, the report explicitly emphasises that Austria is the only country in which the European Convention on Human Rights enjoys constitutional status. [[Abg. Oillinger: Without effect, as you can see!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Against this will stop!]] It also puts freedom of expression under special constitutional protection as set out in Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights. The free expression of opinion is not the mere letter of a constitutional and international provision, but the democratic practice in this country that has been in existence for decades. [[Abg. Oellinger: Kanzlei Böhmdorfer!]] In the event that this right is at risk only by means of an approach, an extensive legal instrument is available up to the appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. These introductory remarks are therefore essential to me, because the current urgent request gives the impression that freedom of the press and opinion in Austria are no longer in line with European standards. [[Deputies Dr. Petrovic and Oillinger:Yes! Yes!]] I would therefore like to reject the allegations made in this urgent request that complaints and serial processes by the Government would lead to intimidation of the free expression of opinion in oppositional currents, in all forms and in a specific way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to reject the claim made in this request, which has led the Federal Government to try to restrict freedom of the press and the freedom of expression. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Na net!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (in the direction of SPÖ and Greens) Such a pot!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is the point of the discussion about § 56 of the Criminal Code? The purpose of this provision is to protect the interests of third parties in a pending judicial procedure. Be assured, ladies and gentlemen, that all members of the Austrian Federal Government and, in particular, I, as the Secretary of the Media, attach great importance to the fact that the protection of the privacy of individuals, at least to be guaranteed, will never be at the expense of a legitimate restriction of freedom of the press! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Rather, this is the classic case of a legal balance: Right to express opinions on one side against the protection of the privacy of the individual on the other. In this respect, legal reform proposals have already been prepared under the former Minister of Justice, Dr. Nikolaus Michalek, and are now included in the draft reform of the criminal procedure. ==References== June 1996 here in the High House held symposia on the protection of personality in the media called the Minister of Justice, respected by all the political groups of this House, Dr. Michalek is a reasonable balance between personality protection and media reporting as a key objective of government policy. On this occasion – I quote – Michalek stated: "In view of the social power and the suggestive power of the media, the individual is usually the weaker and the more vulnerable." - Quote. At that time, the Minister of Justice received approval from the then Judge of the SPÖ Dr. Willi Fuhrmann. I should like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to advise the novel, which has now been designed significantly under the Minister of Justice Michalek at the time, on the points of modern justice and the media policy, but not to create an uncertainty on the ground and on the grounds of party policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that an objective discussion on such an essential and complex subject should be held with great seriousness and that, as a Media State Secretary, this issue is, at least, too essential and too important for this country for scandalisation and superficial polemics and the cashing of party-political small money. In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15210	We are going into the debate. I can remind you: Each club has 25 minutes of speaking time, and no speaker is allowed to take more than 10 of these 25 minutes. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Pilz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15237	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has disappeared! [[Call the SPÖ: Where is he?]] – Since there are no Rules of Procedure on disappearing German Chancellors, I have allowed myself to consult an employee of the Federal Chancellor present at the beginning of the debate to remain the same. I announce the result of my research herewith: The employee of the Federal Chancellor has also disappeared! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Call the ÖVP: He's back! He's sitting there!]] Whether the Chancellor's trail can be taken up again and when the chancellor will be ready to speak to us again will probably depend on when the Federal Government believes there would be something to complain about again. That this is not the case today is the only thing in which the Federal Government and we probably agree. Mr State Secretary! If you explain to us with all the weight of your person and your office a guarantee for freedom of the press, I must tell you: This is not particularly hopeful for freedom of the press! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I cannot assess your personal weight from here, but your professional, your government weight is so low that I would like to build guarantees about freedom of the press on a higher weight and a more solid basis. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What's this about? After long pressure, numerous interventions, public slanders of the judges and prosecutors, not only the Freedom Party succeeded in impressing parts of the Vienna Procuratorate – with the goodwill of the Minister and with numerous public notes from the Minister, which he actually expected from his subordinates. The proceedings are down, witnesses are not agreed, evidence is suppressed, files are cleaned. I refer only to the fact that, at the command of the prosecutor Klackl – and exceptionally, it is necessary to mention a name here – the preliminary final report of the economic police has been cleaned six times by the name of Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer. In the final report, the then lawyer and today's Justice Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer is no longer mentioned. Total cleaning not only for Haiders and Stadlers, but also for the current Minister of Justice has succeeded in 100 percent. – Mr Justice Minister! You have done impressive work! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Posch.]] I am saving myself to explain in detail why we have not sent a request or a request to you. Not only do we consider you, after the recent attack on freedom of expression and press in the political sense, to be a relapser. We do not believe that you could be ready somewhere else to become clear and return to the ground of human rights and civil liberties. It is probably too difficult for you to be the key attorney in the top ladder that your law firm was the black money center of the Freedom Party, probably you would have to fear too much personally from a rule of law procedure – therefore you cannot be interested in restoring legal conditions not only in this procedure! Minister of Justice! Because we do not have this confidence and because hardly anyone in the Austrian public can have the confidence in a person like you who is unable to act differently from the trust attorney of the Freedom Party, for the seventh time we make the objectively ever better-founded request to release you from your office. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We celebrate the tenth together!]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So simple could be the first step towards restoring the rule of law in the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the ÖVP has two titles: § 301 and § 56. I was with an author when I was in hand with this discipline knowledge. In October a press conference was held, but at that time I did not come to the idea that the ladies and gentlemen of the media could make themselves punishable if they report on this press conference, which is what their work is. – And that’s exactly what happened, but not because a prosecutor had to act, but because in the Vienna criminal court a balance has led to a completely new result. For decades, § 301 StGB has not been applied because – rightly! – a responsible lawyer after the other said: No, we do not judge it, there is a problem with human rights! It has been expected that the National Council will take action and bring about an agreement with human rights. But that didn't happen! The authoritarian turn of Minister Böhmdorfer in the judiciary has now given the opportunity to abuse these paragraphs and to use them to suppress and erode human and civil rights. Böhmdorfer's justice did not hesitate for a minute after the proceedings against the liberals had been reversed to begin the new proceedings against the opposition and against the representatives of free media. At this point we arrived. Why, Mr State Secretary, did you not say a word about this? Why didn't you say that today a police officer was with a journalist and wanted to hear her as a witness, even though we have long known that she is already considered accused by the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office and is preparing the trial against her? Even the accused rights are deprived of journalists! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Why, Mr State Secretary, do you not find as one who once had something to do with the freedom of art and with it a key area of freedom, that journalists who have just done their work and who have reported seriously have to count on prison sentences today because a justice system is being abused as a muzzle and as an instrument of oppression and intimidation? Why didn't you lose a sentence about it? Does it matter to you – or does your general statement, the Morak Guarantee for the Sunday announcement of human and press rights, weigh more than what the journalists now threaten? I do not know how my request for extradition and my desire to be delivered by this National Council will be decided tomorrow evening. I do not think it is fair – and I will therefore try to convince you to deliver myself – simply to observe and comment on a procedure against representatives of free media from the parliamentary stage under the protection of immunity. I think it's right that we are dealing with this issue. That is why I will ask you – not today, but tomorrow – to withdraw my immunity. But that will not solve the problem. First of all, the problem is that we – and this is new knowledge; the knowledge about it has not been imparted to us by a Minister of Justice Michalek and many of his predecessors, because there was nothing to be feared here and because nothing has happened here for good reason – only for a few months know how individual sections of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code can be interpreted in a targeted political will, namely, as a party attorney, to use the judiciary in such a way that maximum benefits for one's own party and maximum damage to all others can be achieved. Only a few months ago do we know that this is possible and that there is also a minister who is willing to do so. For a few months now, the Austrian media know how the term "short process" can be understood by the Ministry of Böhmdorfer, which means that it is when, on call of liberal top functionaries, Böhmdorfer's prosecutors march out and send police bodies to the journalists to the editors.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15357	Mr. Dr. Pilz, now not only the voluntary, but also the ten-minute speaking time has ended. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15372	Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we have tabled a request that is not just a sample of nails but that would have been a matter of course in other times. I personally regret that, from here on, we must try to find a majority in this House again for these rule of law principles, which would have been of course a matter of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15406	The resolution tabled and read in accordance with Article 74 of the Federal Constitution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15430	Mr President. High house! It is a demonstrative act that Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel is not present today, and we are still waiting for an explanation for it. As I hear it, he seems to be in his office in the Federal Chancellery. I wonder, Why does he not find the way from his office to Parliament? - But I already see that: It is the former working room of Clemens Prince Metternich, and if I look at the laws you are constantly presenting to us here, I have to say that these are really influenced by the spirit of the Clemens Prince Metternich, the Knebel-, Spittel- and Kerkermeister of the Habsburgs who was chased away. Thus, in 1848 freedom of the press and of expression began so properly. We should be worthy of this, and parties that are bringing their roots back to this time in particular should become thinkful if there is a proposal for a law that creates this reaction in the media. These reactions are clear. Mr. State Secretary Morak! "King Ottokar's Happiness and End" – it was fantastically played. I do not know how you will be in "Schüsselen Glück und End" yet, but I am afraid you will have to assume this role here more often because the Federal Chancellor prefers to remain silent, not come himself and take a position. As the so-called liberal ÖVP voters record, you really have to make up your own mind with these voters. I claim that you have already received the receipt on several occasions that you are giving this support to this policy of Mr Böhmdorfer and the Freeman, and you will continue to receive it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The statement Haiders 1993 was clear: Once he "has something to talk about", he will already make sure that in the editors "less lies in the future". Or in October 2000: "The top coward was born in the sick brains of some journalists." Medical criteria have, as it were, been tried to address media freedom. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is left with the mushroom of his casting?]] I don't want to talk to you at all; that you are the way you are, we know now. I'm interested in the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Christian Rainer writes in the "profile": "But the reaction of the ÖVP is once again debilitating. For example, the Constitutional Justice Andreas Khol should have recognized the brilliance of this attack on the media and thus on basic constitutional values. Instead, he speaks boldly or cynically of an ‘unhappily discussion’. Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel even finds the planned novelle ‘all right’.” I think that this reaction you have shown here is actually shocking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Yes, Mrs. Fekter, you are after Peter Rabl "Größ God, Frau Kerkermeister!" in the "NEWS", so you can count on the series here worthy, best to take next to Mr Böhmdorfer place. But you probably don't care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] "Kerker instead of press freedom" write the "Salzburger Nachrichten", a really anything but left-wing radical leaf, where it only – as say You so beautiful in your new language? – Slaughter battle, assaults, cadence, peacock!, how you bring this all the time in your sect-like NLP training. Or the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "Knebble for the Free Press." Think of your party traditions – I look at the ÖVP now, not you – think of your party tradition! [[towards the freedom of movement]] "Knebble for the free press" is here. Or, a joke by the Minister Böhmdorfer in Salzburg – I quote –: "Recently a journalist called me: Mr. Minister, do you want to make me unemployed? '" – Böhmdorfer: "Don't even go because it's known that we're working in our prisons." – "Laughter" at the "Jurists" in Salzburg. Unfathomable cynicism! This really shakes the fundamental rights, the fundamental principles of this Republic and that state. And it goes on: Hans Rauscher in "Standard": "But the impression remains: The ‘turn’, which the black and blue coalition does not achieve economic policy, should at least succeed in social policy – towards the authoritarian intimidation state.” Now I know why German Chancellor Schüssel prefers to sit in the Clemens-Metternich room, than to come to Parliament and face this challenge. This is about this radical social policy. It is obviously to be intimidated here. The work of journalists is to be made impossible. They shall be set before district judges, they shall, if possible, be pre-punished. In fact, they are not supposed to stand in front of the media judges. We have a media law, please nice, with sufficient provisions – § 6, 7, a, b – you can choose it there! If there are civil gaps there, why don't you put up there? Why is § 301 StGB excavated? Why is criminal law being tried? Why this attempt of intimidation? – Because They do not want that freedom of journalism that takes the freedom to criticise government policy. You'll belong to that next time selected! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The "standard" brings it back to the point. However, I can also quote the 'Press', Mr Sitter, who in several articles has taken a detailed and more than critical position on it. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have your own ideas?]] The "Press" is also not a left-hand radical leaf. Or is it for you, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, already left-wing? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] What's the middle for you then? So with you, the spectrum has shifted well! When you were still in the "Constitutional Arch", it was still quite a lot in the lot, but now you slip further and further over from the "Constitutional Arch". [[in the direction of freedom of expression]] You should be careful so that it doesn't get so far that you don't have a chair at this slide at some point! Be very careful! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] The law-enforced prosecutors will then, of course, have to carry out this task. – I think I can remember that the FPÖ was actually for freedom of guidance. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It wasn't me!]] But now she's sitting in the Ministry of Justice, and now she's saying, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is not so bad with the instruction. Maybe there's something ahead, and we got something of it! That's how it changes! Very quickly! Because you spoke of "Salto mortale" today – Mr. Klubobmann, you are rotating, there is a real power plant in front of loud Salti mortali! –, I tell you: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Mortale" you said! I've been talking about Salto!]] This is the result: It's supposed to stay the right to order! The "standard" brings it to the point. There will be under the title: "Back to the Inquisition?==References====External links==* Official website By the way, there are books about this, I would like to tell you just so that you can read a little bit – the following is written: Return to inquisitorial forms of procedure... Further down, it says: The Minister of Justice is "the absolute master of the question of who is or is not the process". This is a clear contradiction to the long-standing demands of the FPÖ – one of the many former demands you have revised since you were in the government. In any case, we are really afraid that this attitude will continue to be used in such fundamental areas as the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you still quoting from the "Asterix" now? Develop your own idea once!]] I would therefore like to say to you: We will do everything we can to defend this rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Broda!]] We will do everything we can to parate these attacks, which come here and which are jointly implemented and carried by you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Broda! 26 directions to the prosecutor in a single trial!]] I said on the occasion of the discussion about the media authority that in Metternich’s spirit, one wants to set up a media authority so that one can gnaw in order to intimidate the journalists so that one can get the media in control. At the time, Secretary of State Morak gave me a book on Metternich, which I felt was very kind, because he gave me the opportunity to really compare what this man did, everything wanted, and because I could see how often the cover is similar to what you do today. This also fits your ORF law template and here again! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Blecha!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Fischer! Courts intimidating! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] "Traping under the nail," wrote a large daily, you want to get the ORF. They also want to take the opportunity of the opposition from the public so that it can no longer pursue its opposition policy to this extent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now he already laughs!]] I would like to say to you: You will encounter the resistance of a critical public and the resistance of Austrians to this rule of law and democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one's taking this away from you now!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oh, God!]] Sadly, once again we are so far as to quote Article 10 of the Human Rights Convention on freedom of expression. Quote: "Every man is entitled to free expression." You should really write this down and get involved in your policy – even you, "Mrs. Kerkermeister", should write down that! – because that is a very essential principle for which we have to fight here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] But you are willing to remain silent in the interests of the maintenance of the masculine, and the Federal Chancellor is not willing to come so that it goes on as it has been before. Resistance from us is here!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15694	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15728	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to put two points to the top of my remarks. First: Whoever claims that freedom of expression in Austria is only in danger, either has no idea and puppies or deliberately says the untruth. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I am glad that the new clubman of the Social Democrats is here in Parliament, Mr Cap! Something better could not have happened to us. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now to the matter itself: I have been given the impression during the weeks of discussion on this issue that the critics are either critical because they have not informed themselves because they have not had the effort to read the texts about them, or that the critics are therefore critics, knowingly wanting to spread the untruth in the pursuit of a political or other interest. I also marvel at how easy one becomes a "wisher" and how one reads the words of the lips like another. There, three older gentlemen, two of whom are politicians beyond their peaks, are called tax-free by third parties who want to make the mistakes they themselves have made out of the world, "wise". They tell some things that are right, and others that are not right. But also those concerned, namely us, act as if these were the effects of wisdom and not political statements that have not always been successful. But how the "wise" come to their results, we know when we read today's urgent request. Each sentence, which stands in italics and in which the "wises" are quoted, is based on misinformation – clearly recognizable to all Austrians dealing with political matters. The "wise" just didn't know how it really was, they didn't know what they were talking about. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] - I don't want to take trouble! But as they come to their view, one has recently learned: None other than a certain Peter Pilz has said that he will turn to the "wise" and will announce how bad he was again. That is to say, one must not make the "wise" the accusation that they judge things they have no idea of, but that one must make this accusation that travel out, post or phone, and inform the "wise" inaccurately, just as Pilz has already announced. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But it's interesting: In fact, nothing really new! It is not only as the Secretary of State has stated in his truly impressive statements, namely that, in a sense, such a project dates back to Michaleks, but it is also true that there is a word-like request. From 1998! At that time, the Minister of Justice called Michalek, and the Federal Chancellor called him climate. And if you wanted to hear climate and see, State Secretary Wittmann was sitting here on the government bank and nobody else! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I already liked the Secretary of State Morak better than the then Secretary of State Wittmann, although the latter was a lawyer and the lawyers are always good. But in this respect, Morak has been more pleasant. That is to say, Michalek, as the Minister of Justice for Climate Change, put a word-identical text on the table of the House in 1998, which was no longer the subject of final treatment, because there were national elections in 1999. He has already entered the election campaign in a way. Nothing new at all is this text, which is now being blown up into a large red-green balloon, which everyone is supposed to fear – with already announced: We're going abroad again, and abroad we're going to say what's not going on properly in Austria! We write a letter to the "Wises", we turn to the "Wises" and complain about what is going on in Austria! There has already been this template at that time! But I actually missed any excitement about it at the time. I can't remember a storm of indignation that might have been heard at that time. Why? – For the following reason: At that time, the climate was Chancellor, and at that time Wittmann was his State Secretary, and then the honorary notary Michalek was his Minister of Justice! No one has excited himself; and no one reveals today that the true core determination of § 301 StGB is. § 301 of the Criminal Code does not come from the era of Böhmdorfer, it shows the latest novelle from 1997, so it comes from a time when climate, Wittmann and Michalek have existed in the government. At that time, this provision, under the impression that unrestricted confidential elements of court proceedings in facsimile have been seen in some newspapers that live on such things, has led to the fact that they have been encouraged to do something about it. I say: For good reason this was done, because it was not only about the fact that, from court acts, matters relating to private matters – private, in which the public must not have an interest, when it comes to problems relating to their private life – that it should not appear in the newspapers, but also about criminal tactic considerations, because it is also not beneficial if someone who is accepted as the fifth accused or who is the sixth witness can read in the paper what all said immediately before him, because the protocol in the facsimile in the newspaper has already been printed. This § 301 StGB has in reality directed against the judicial staff. I know this from my own perception. They have always been said in the ministry: Who's wearing this again? Who in the judicial sector could have been that again? Which staff of academic or non-academic staff was the information carrier? One has never been able to close the gaps, because the people concerned have always said: That was probably the accused! It's called: The defendant has a file bill, the accused has a defender, if that's gone out, it doesn't have to be a judge, it's probably going to be the accused or someone in his area! The section that is now being discussed does not close a gap with the journalists, but closes the gap with those individuals who can hurt confidentiality, for he says no more and no less than that the accused gets the file billing – each of you can read it if he has the trouble – that, of course, he may also give it to his defender, but that he may not pass it on and disclose the publication if it violates the legitimate interests of third parties. That means that this is not against the journalists. It is the § 301 StGB of the Core Paragraph. At the time it was assumed that the lawyers were infringing confidentiality. They've always talked to the defendants, and now they've also taken the accused into duty. In fact, the journalists have not changed at all! That's what those who cry out professionally because they believe to come into confrontation once in some form with inconveniences. So it's not like there were new ones. What is really to come comes from the era climate, Wittmann and Michalek. What really is to come is not against the journalists. Everyone can read it; perhaps one of the speakers who comes in after me who has more speaking time available. I repeat: It is against the accused and against all that is related to him. Ladies and gentlemen! One should, please, finally stop pressing crocodiles by saying that the entire scandal could not have been revealed if one had had this provision before. This is a mistake in thinking, a conscious or an mistaken one, because it is about the publication from court proceedings, and if a court case is already in the world, then a permissive detector has already achieved its success, and this cannot be prevented afterwards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Oils:..., you know exactly that!]] It is about the fact that the detector, if he has really discovered that he has been successful, has produced a court act, and from the court act, the accused shall not disclose confidential elements that could endanger the legitimate interests of third parties. The story is already over with the discovery several steps. That's what the Lord Ollinger knows, but he knows it goes in when he says: Jö, nothing could have been revealed! However, he overlooks that the order is different from that of his faithful listeners.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15824	Mrs Fekter's next speech. Time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e15846	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! ==References== On this very subject, Dr. Knirsch, President of the Bar Association Dr. Knirsch explicitly welcomed the intended provision, which has so far been so massively criticised here, in an APA issue – I quote: "The intended strict punishment of indiscretions at the expense of the protectionable interests of citizens is a 'extension already due', said the President of the Vienna Bar, Peter Knirsch, in a broadcast." [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Is this a friend of Böhmdorfer?]] "He regarded the excitement over the planned novelles of the criminal procedure as an expression" – Mr. Pilz, be careful! – "a "wild understanding of the law, because it is the top principle of a democratic rule of law that everyone is guaranteed a fair trial" – "and not that the incitement of prejudicial publications becomes a traditional law." [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (crossing the hands like for arrest) So?]] I quote: "The current initiative of the Minister of Justice must therefore be supported and welcomed by all those who want to restore the rule of law to their proper place, according to Knirsch." - Quote. We from the ÖVP want to protect this rule of law, just as we, of course, also want to protect freedom of the media. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] However, the rule of law means that all legal goods – such as data protection, fair, independent procedures, freedom of the press – are equally and balanced. The new § 56 is a data protection provision. However, in Mr Cap's speech, the word "data protection" has not occurred once. Mr Cap! You are acting unilaterally towards the rule of law in your view regarding the interests of protection. The rule of law does not consist solely of freedom of the media, but other legal goods in the rule of law must also be taken into account. For us freedom of the press is, of course, an essential part of our democracy, and that freedom of the media and the freedom of expression are also constitutionally protected as a control instrument is a matter of course. But fundamental principles of law, such as a fair, independent procedure, free from pre-conception, free from media influence – by the way, a human right, Mr. Pilz, but that is strange to you – or the data protection of third party data protected by law, such as medical secrecy, legal confidentiality, official secrecy, personal protection, have not been found at all in the opinions and words of the opposition. I'm telling you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: We of the ÖVP believe that these legal goods must not be sacrificed on the altar of scandalous reporting! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Where is the rule of law, Mr Cap and Mr Pilz, when your opinions did not mention a word of data protection if you were not worth a fair, independent procedure if you did not mention the difference between media justice and the rule of law? Mr Pilz! Legal principles are strange to you, data protection is only welcome as scandal with the others, but you do not adhere to what countless press conferences prove. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The new § 56 has been standardised as a provision for the protection of victims – the President of the Judicial Association has recognized this immediately and mentioned it in her opinion – and as such, of course, it has a right. By the way, Mr Ofner has already done this, and the review process may bring forward proposals for improvement, in particular with regard to the necessary adaptation of § 301 StGB. The already in force § 301 StGB is, by the way, from the Broda period. I would also like to mention this here. Mr Van der Bellen – he is now no longer present – this section is not unconstitutional, he is also in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This adjustment will be similar to that, but with lower sanctions than in 1997 when we included the protection of data from electronic detection, telephone monitoring and grid inspection protocols in § 301 StGB. [[Abg. Oillingers: You've introduced that!]] Mr Oellinger and Mr Pilz. In your application, you request the abolition of § 301 StGB for the realization of absolute freedom of the press. Do you want to make this data out of the phone surveillance, from which Rasterfachung make public and have it in the media? [[Abg. Oils: We don't want the grid search!]] We will certainly not give our consent to this urgent request! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Take off the grid guard!]] For example, in order to prevent media justice and media pressure on criminal proceedings, the influence of witnesses, courtesies and judges, prejudicial prejudicial convictions and announcements, the German Criminal Law has the § 353d, which is truly identical to our determination, except that the threat of punishment there is a imprisonment of up to a year or a fine of money – and therefore twice as strict as with us. The German Criminal Code also protects the violation of private and official secrets with criminal threats of up to one year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Therefore, the planned regime, which you so massively criticise here, is in no way a constitutional union, but very similar internationally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] No matter how we formulate the new § 301 in detail, there will certainly be no prison sentences for journalists. Mr Cap! The sage with the "Church Master" is known, but legally an outstanding pot. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] As a future clubman and lawyer, you should actually know that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's not a lawyer!]] There has been no prison sentences for journalists in the past because journalists are protected by editorial secrecy. To date, the secret of the editors has also prevented the compatriot of journalists – even if the source of their information came from a breach of official secrecy. But the official secret is known to have been much longer. In the future, however, there will be no prison sentences for journalists not only because of the secret of the editorial book, but also because, according to § 37 StGB, it is one of the principles of our legal order that only fines should be imposed in the event of a criminal threat of up to six months, because short-term penalties are not useful. Therefore, no "hooks" for journalists! Mr Cap! Explorers You are with the lawyers of your party, how the legal situation really is, and avoid as stupid a Sager as that of the "Church Master".
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16015	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You can't talk about stupid sage here in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16047	I take back the word "bless" and put it correctly on "juristic absolutely misinformed and wrong". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Just as all civilised legal systems strive to strike a balanced balance between the legal goods, so we also try to find this balance. Whether criminal law or only civil damages law is the right instrument, the review process will show, because a powerful media company will be able to afford compensation more easily with spicy details on the cover sheet, because this may significantly increase the edition. On the other hand, however, there is also a public interest in reporting and legitimate interest in reporting despite data protection. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: The rule of law is for us to protect all legal goods and to give room to information and media law – but certainly not to a media justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16090	There are now several words for an actual correction. In all cases, I would like to begin by mentioning the facts to be corrected and then the actual facts. The first one in the series is Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16138	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter claimed that in our urgent request we would call for the abolition of § 301 StGB. A short, possibly strenuous reading brings to mind – I quote – that "... to decide a government template in which § 301 StGB is changed in such a way that it can no longer be abused as a threat to freedom of expression and freedom of the press." [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Aha! You want him, don't you?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Super! Very good!]] Those who cannot distinguish between "change" and "reject" can probably not distinguish between the rule of law and Bohemia. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16195	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of a further actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16220	Mrs. Dr. Fekter referred to Dr. Josef Capals as lawyers. – I am dealing with the right facts: He did not study Jus, he did a different study.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16255	The next actual correction is made by Mrs Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16291	Mrs. Fekter has assigned me to the term "Church Master." [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I wouldn't say "supposed"!]] - Greetings to God, Mrs. Kerkermeister!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16331	Please mention the facts to be corrected and then compare them with the actual facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16346	I hereby correct: Not I am the inventor of this term "Frau Kernermeister", but Peter Rabl in the discussion with the magazine "NEWS". [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, you're a follower!]] But if you think that's a "blessed sage," then tell Mr. Peter Rabl. He's more of a journalist to be assigned to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16398	We continue in the debate. The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. The watch is gladly set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16477	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for having the "Falter" because the "Falter" is a reading that I can truly recommend to everyone, especially those who also talk to journalists. May I quote you from today's issue of the "Falter" Mrs. Dr. Fekter? She did not have enough time here to express her opinion to all facets. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why are you crumbling the "Falter"?]] Mrs. Dr. Fekter really points out what this is about in the question of § 56 StPO in conjunction with § 301 StGB. She says – I quote Maria Fekter in the "Falter": "Josef Kleindienst and others should not publish anything over the top coward as long as there is no charge. Small service will be punishable in the future." [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Say the "Falter"!]] It's about the top coward, ladies and gentlemen. More clearly than that, one really cannot express it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is not a literal quote!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I attach great importance to the opinion of the ÖVP's President-in-Office of Justice, but it is different in connection with a statement by the Vice-President of the Republic, Dr. Riess-Passer, which is also to be read in the "Falter". The same thing, as quoted in the "Falter", was said to the astounding public that – and now I quote it literally – "no journalists are threatened with imprisonment if they report properly". It is about the "proper report" in relation to the top coward, ladies and gentlemen. There you can truly only speak with the words of the "simple" party member Jörg Haider. In this context, it is always about one thing: "The freedom I mean", and therefore, "The freedom I mean", the order that he means to be allowed to proclaim the freedom he means. Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer! You are even quoted in this question in which the Austrian government quotes the "wisdom report" in which the "wise" wrote the following about you: "When the opposition parties launched a formal parliamentary survey" – referring to your statements to sanction opposition – the Minister of Justice stressed the freedom of expression of those who presented such a proposal. He stressed that everyone must have the opportunity to express his opinion." That's why: To express his opinion – "The freedom I mean", the order that one wants to produce. Freedom is defined from the "simple" party member to the honorary party attorney of the FPÖ, to speak now again with the words of Dr. Ofner, for he has it with the honourable men. He himself, in a sense, quotes himself as a Honourable Minister of Justice. I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of "the soup is too thin", of the "lucona" and the end of the affair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] – Even 20 years do not make memory weaker, nor are it 20 years yet. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Except you, no one knows what it was about!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to give you my impression of this mood, I would like to say the following: Please, no one – and this has already been said by Dr. Van der Bellen – here, no one who has at some point been serious about judicial issues has ever said that there is a huge need for reform in criminal proceedings in Austria. This is something that has been, at least since I first had a legal textbook in my hand, always and again as a reform stand, reform projects, the rule of law has not been demonstrated and becomes acceptable. This is not at all the point of discussion on this matter. What this is all about – I repeat it again – is the climate in which things happen. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Blame is again the climate!]] § 56 was not brought into contact with § 301 at the time, but already, because this is the only but essential difference between the draft and the criminal procedure of 1998, presented by Dr. Michalek, and the draft preliminary proceedings of 2001, presented by Dr. Böhmdorfer, is this direct reference to § 301 StGB. That is a question of the situation. In 1998 we had a Minister of Justice who had a motive to make this proposal, and he was and is truly a horrific personality; an independent notary before his term of office as Minister and again today. The current Minister is an honourable personality for many: He is the party attorney of the Freedom Party. This is the essential difference between the time before and the time now! Times have changed. The interpretations have changed, the pressure on justice has changed, the pre-emptive obedience plays a role again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The independence of judges and prosecutors is to be seen in a different light today, when, as with the prosecutors, there is a discussion about the abolition of the law, with the chief instigator strictly saying: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – This is a point in order to get back to the criminal process, with regard to which there really is a need for discussion in the other provisions contained in this draft – as necessary this reform is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I would like to quote from a newspaper, because today has been quoted so many times and so much from newspapers. This is a newspaper from which the ladies and gentlemen who read the paper are sure that this is not my favorite newspaper, namely the "Kronen Zeitung", and her Justice is Mr. Dr. Swoboda, whom I would like to quote now. The Justice of the "Krone" says to § 56 in conjunction with § 301 StGB – again to the "Falter": [[Abg. Böhacker: Isn't that the "Falter"?]] "Constitutional, total nonsense, Kasperl determination." [[Abg. Böhacker: Did you fold the crown?]] If you no longer have the sensitivity on the part of the Federal Government – and now I am especially turning to the part of the Federal Government of the ÖVP; there are two – that you perceive this cry of the entire closed media and journalistic public, then it has come a long way. It is not just a few who uphold the flag of the rule of law, but the concern, the excitement, the criticism is an all-embracing one. I do not know any journalists in this country who have not spoken critically. Perhaps one or the other has not had the opportunity to express himself. They are all invited to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] It is up to us, it is up to Mr Klubobmann Khol, and it is up to the Federal Chancellor not present today to do something. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And Minister Böhmdorfer!]] That is what he thinks of the rule of law, what he believes if he does not come here when it comes to a fundamental legal discussion. This is about the really different tension ratio in the weighing of fundamental rights. Who is more in demand than the one who is primus inter pares in the Federal Government, the one who represents this country in the majority of the public?- Oh, my God! The last point to be said today is the following: The three "wises" have truly not deserved that with their "acquittal" – under quotation marks – and with their result that they have delivered, with what we all enjoyed in Austria, they are now being vilified in this way, as happened today by Dr. Ofner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Neither Dr. Frowein nor Dr. Ahtisaari nor Dr. Oreja have deserved to be treated here by Dr. Ofner in this form in disapproval and carikik and truly under their dignity. Somehow it is so that you simply can't expect it from the liberals. But the ÖVP is silent and lets Mrs. Dr. Fekter speak. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We're not silent at all!]] Mr. Dr. Khol, you now have an opportunity to: Take a position on what Mrs. Fekter has directed us through the newspaper! Please, you're next!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16661	The Minister for Justice is speaking. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16683	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. State Secretary! I confirm the statement made by Mrs Stoisits, which is a very difficult problem, namely the problem of the regulation of tension between the protection of individuals on the one hand and freedom of the press on the other. But I am amazed that you see this problem so one-sided and that you have found no words at all to protect your personality. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to address the history of the legal situation so that we all understand ourselves better, because I am very interested in the fact that this great reform work of the Ministry of Justice, which the officials of this Ministry have produced in 27 years under the leadership of Dr. Pleischl, will not go down and will not be discredited, just because you want to cash the small political money you do not deserve. § 301 StGB dates back to 1975, from the time of the Minister of Justice of the Socialist Party Broda, and was innovationized in 1997. Today, Mr. Pilz made the interesting statement that you are in principle aware of these paragraphs, but you want to change them. However, the desire for change cannot be very large because you did not present the same and did not detail it. So far, you haven't said what you want to change. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to remind you why the 1997 novel was necessary: because at that time the so-called major noise attack was regulated by law. What happened? – One can cable rooms in very difficult and far-reaching, significant criminal cases, for example. In this way you can also listen to people who have nothing to do with a crime at all. The details of the private and family life of third parties, which come into contact with criminal proceedings only by chance, are available. That was the reason for this House to extend in 1997 the case-law of § 301 StGB by paragraph 3, so that such details of third parties who intervene in third-party personal rights may not be published! Punishment – which this House has decided – is one year. Since 1997! You have not lost a word on this, Mr. Dr. Pilz, you've just wanted a change that you haven't specified. - That's one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] This is a formal offence committed by everyone who makes the publication, and this offence has to be committed with purpose, even though you did not mention it. This means that there is no need to weigh the interests of the third parties involved in the right of personality. – You did not mention that either, Dr. Pilz, nor did you scribble. I am excited how your further criticism of this crime, which you have confirmed today and which you do not want to abolish, will look in the future. How's it going? – The new novelle of criminal proceedings is the following: The rights of the injured will be extended, the rights of the victims will be extended. However, the rights of the accused are also extended in § 53 para. One, Mr. Dr. Pilz, not mentioned today. There it is established that one gets earlier than before file insight. Thus, the defendant now arrives earlier than before, if the law is to become, in knowledge of details about third parties, in other words, in knowledge of details whose knowledge is incorporated into the right of third parties to personality. Now this field of tension, by Mrs. Dr. Stoisits has spoken, as follows: The accused should be allowed to use all the knowledge he takes from the act for his defence, even if he intervenes in the rights of third parties. But he should not use it if he intervenes in the rights of third parties without helping himself through the defense. That's just personal protection. Also this offence could only be committed by journalists as contributors. Please explain why you want to deny this protection to Austrian citizens! Please reply, in particular, from the Green Group, which has acted completely indiscriminately here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now to what you have said, Mrs Stoisits, that this is a "Kasperl provision". [[Abg. May. Stoisits: I didn't say that! That says...!]] You quoted it, and you have made it your own opinion with the way you quoted it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] I now turn to the Socialist Group in particular: In 1998, this provision, which you so strongly criticise today, was already included in the draft discussion. She was criticized and judged by many, including the chairman of the Data Protection Council, a high socialist representative named Strutzenberger. He specifically welcomed this provision as an enlargement, as a right and rule of law enlargement. – That's how it happened on 14 April. ==References== I really don't understand the vortex you're making today! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the Salto backward!]] Now some practical examples. What could be the case in which an accuser may not use his knowledge because it does not serve his defense? – I am thinking of economic procedures, I am thinking of business and business secrets in which he comes to know and which he could use and publish without helping him. I think of the release of trusts, I think of the information about accounts and loans that he could use without helping him. – What do you say about this question of personal protection, about this question of details about private life? I am thinking about organised crime. – Remember: There have already been guntights on witnesses! They should have said as witnesses what was known by the rapid dissemination of the contents of the file. If you announce the investigation results of the investigating authorities too early, they may also be a warning to fellow perpetrators. – You have not lost a word for this! But they do not think of the mortal remains of victims! Their relatives also have a personal protection. They do not think of medical stories that could be published in this way! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... You're talking about it!]] They do not think of psychiatric and psychological advice that could be published early! If you talk to journalists who will present these topics, these journalists will tell you: We do not publish such things at all! – They do the vortex – it is not necessary at all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Think of the results of house and person searches! Think of the many possibilities of abuse that open up when accused publish facts about the media that they do not need for their defense! – You could give answers to all these questions today. I am available for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16816	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16837	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! It's actually embarrassing that you're talking about political little money to do on this issue. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, that is not embarrassing, that is the truth!]] I think you can't make it that easy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's a pot you're talking about!]] I can guarantee you, Minister of State: We think a lot about what personality protection in this country looks like. We think a lot about what to do so that there is no abuse of data. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Let us know the result!]] Do you know what the difference to you is? – We do not think of criminal changes, but we think it should be necessary to reform the media law, but not criminal measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Such a pot!]] That distinguishes us from you! But that not only distinguishes us from you, but also very many experts. Many professionals have given a clear opinion on this. Mr Fekter went out here and said that there was, so to speak, a unanimous view within the EIA. – I take away something else from the current "NEWS": There was a dispute on this question of possible criminal prosecution of journalists, and I quote from it: "In this country, an atmosphere has arisen, which – comparable to the 1930s – causes discomfort. ... By this law, Mr Böhmdorfer has proved that he does not have the sensitivity that a political authority should have." I have now quoted one of the EIAs not unknown politicians, it is Mr Krejci, former Secretary General of the Industrial Union, and I fully share Mr Krejci's opinion in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Auer: Wisdom does not always come with age too!]] But there are also, as I can read from this discussion and newspaper articles, former ÖVP Secretary-General, who, with regard to this presentation, speak of it as a political witness to poverty for Bohemia. I also fully share this assessment of Michael Graff. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are not used to anything else by the FPÖ – which has already been mentioned today – either, we have not expected much. It has always tried to limit the freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the fundamental restriction of civil rights. But I would have expected at least a minimum degree of understanding of democracy policy. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! At the beginning of the discussion you meant: It's not that important! – This discussion is very important for many people because it poses a threat to democracy, what you are planning! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The question of representation!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We must see all that is happening here and this proposal in a context, because the whole is a continuation of democratic political concerns in this country. A democratic political attitude is also expressed when a member of the Coalition Committee, Mr. Haider, speaks of "making order in the editorial offices" when he speaks of a "summit of indiscretions" and calling editors "resistance nest". This is the relationship of the FPÖ – in particular your Minister of Justice – with the media, with journalists. But how does the relationship between the ÖVP and the freedom of the media look? – The relationship of the ÖVP looks so that the Federal Chancellor does not even find it worth the effort to come here, but does what he always does, namely to keep silent, not to take a position and not to assume the responsibility he actually has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The list of quotations, which are the expression of a democratic political attitude, can continue. You, Mr. Federal Minister, have spoken about "Press freedom must have its limits". Mrs. Vice-Chancellor said that "no journalists are threatened with imprisonment if they report properly". – That makes me afraid, I was afraid of something like this, and that is, in my opinion, a matter of political concern for democracy. You, Mr. Federal Minister, have been a party attorney to the FPÖ for years, personal lawyer Haiders, and have been dealing with a complaint machine against critics, against journalists. I suspect you haven't completely solved this role. You have not yet succeeded in actually resolving this role as a party lawyer and this role of permanently pursuing against journalists, against political rivals. This is irresponsible, it is unbearable for a minister of justice! Federal Minister! You would give democracy a good service if you were to withdraw from the office! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e16986	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. The watch is gladly set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17008	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has tried "NEWS" to draw an alleged parallel from the present to the 1930s. I quote science, I quote Mr Egon Matzner, his sign university professor and 1978 coordinator of the socialist party program. What does Professor Matzner say in his book on the Second Republic just presented? – He says that the conversation situation in the political camps has not been as bad since the time of the state – i.e. the thirty-years – as it is now. 90 percent – says Matzner, who knows social democracy as hardly anyone else – are responsible for the mistakes of previous SPÖ governments. I quote another gentleman from the field of science, not only from the point of view of you, but also from the incarnation of socialist intellectuality, Mr Norbert Readers. In one of his last works, he writes that the SPÖ had learned nothing from the past, that she had juxtaposed the present and played the future. So, ladies and gentlemen, look at the state of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now I come to what I really wanted to say to you, Mr Van der Bellen, and dedicate myself to your urgent request. In point 2 of your request, the Federal Government is asked to decide on a government template – by the way, a peculiar self-confidence of a parliamentary group – to demand that a federal government decide something instead of the Parliament adopting a law, but obviously you are not even able to put a simple legal provision into words – in which § 301 StGB is amended in such a way that it can no longer be misused to the threat of freedom of the press and opinion. I must say to you, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Clubobmann of the Greens and Professor of the University: With this in mind, you submit to your request nothing other than that the public prosecutor commits an official abuse of Mr Peter Pilz in the proceedings against him. I have to tell you one thing: Mr President, during the period since 1994, I have learned to appreciate you as a very relevant politician, but if you go here and accuse lawyers of official abuse under the protection of immunity, I must say: This testifies to a new quality of the Green Group! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of another protagonist of the green scene, we are used to making himself here, taking a great pose, which reminds us of the Jesus statue in Rio de Janeiro, and here is a slander after another. He asked the Minister of State to resign, because if he refused, the rule of law in Austria would start from tomorrow. This implies, Mr Pilz, that Austria is not a rule of law at the present stage. Mr Pilz, this too is an enormously flattening of the package. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The fungus wants to abolish the rule of law!]] If you are so committed to the media as to what you should be unaware of – even if I try to use myself as a "public watchdog" for the media – then you will know that it would be contrary to any journalistic duty to dissuade someone on a flat-rate basis. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Dog is not so wrong!]] But that's the way you're running politics! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz, I would like to say something else to you: I can't remember when at the beginning of the legislative period in 1999, when we were all praised by the Austrian laws and the Austrian Constitution for the fact that Mr Pilz had stood up and said: I would also like to be commended because I would like to enjoy all the privileges that a Member can enjoy, but, Mr President, I do not want to be promised the validity of the criminal law, Mr Pilz, to me, because I, Mr Pilz, am something special, the provision of § 301 of the Criminal Code should not apply to me. – I can’t remember such a course. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is generally said that journalists in Austria are being persecuted or are exposed to the threat of persecution, then I have to give this a clear rejection, because it has nothing to do with reality, but I do not want to say that a journalist who has recently made great known to Austria under the pseudonym "Staberl" reported that he has made a total of 56 pre-punities. It is, however, a matter of pre-punishment from a time when the FPÖ was still very far from any government responsibility, i.e. pre-punishment, which has been pronounced on the basis of laws which have apparently been decided by social democracy here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a reasonable and balanced consideration of the legal goods, namely, on the one hand, of the right to freedom of expression in accordance with Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights – and this fundamental right also includes the right to express the free expression of opinion in a public way – and on the other hand the fundamental right to respect the intimate atmosphere, the family sphere, the personal sphere. I am surprised that the Klubobmann has not lost any word on how the Minister of Justice has rightly held out to you that individual civil liberties must be safeguarded in respect of the integrity of family life, the intimate atmosphere. That's exactly what I miss! [[Abg. Oillingers: Take off the grid guard!]] Of course, the newspapers, the journalists, the media, Mr Pilz, have it easy to get a public hearing, but the individual who comes under the wheels by means of a publicistic negative, false, even exposing report, perhaps about his private life, cannot defend himself, he remains on the track. It is also important to find a meaningful balance in the sense of the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17111	The next speaker was Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17167	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the urgent request for freedom of the press and the freedom of expression tabled by the Greens today, they deal with a very important and sensitive issue, as I have said, in an immensely polemic way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition have always accused our coalition partner of simplifying difficult facts, spreading half-truths, panicking, bring you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, with today's discussion to a never before been there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The press releases of the Greens are incredibly overlaid. I read about "Moskauer Behungen", by "DDR-Methoden", and it is found that the draft could be "from Putin". But even the Social Democrats do not like this: The Carinthian SPÖ speaks of a "fascistic intimidation advance", and Mr Cap believes that the draft would lead back "to the time of the inquisition". – This is panic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The topic is far too sensitive and delicate to go over in such an unqualified way – in my opinion –. What is it really about? – It is about § 56 of the Criminal Procedural Code. I think you can't have read it, or you might deliberately say something wrong. That's why I don't want to spare you that I read this. § 56 of the draft reads: "The accused shall be entitled to use information which is subject to official secrecy, which he has obtained in the proceedings, either directly or through file inspection, for the purpose of his defence and for the purposes of pursuing other major interests. However, it is prohibited for him to publish such secrets in a media work or otherwise in a way that the communication will become accessible to a general public if it violates the legitimate interests of third parties." This makes it absolutely clear that this draft has to be balanced. On the one hand, freedom of expression, freedom of the press or freedom of information provided for in Article 10(1) shall apply. 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights is protected against the restrictions laid down in paragraph 2 of the Convention on Human Rights. There the protection of the good reputation or the rights of others is expressly mentioned. This discussion on the balance of legal goods Personality protection and freedom of the media is nothing new. In 1996 Parliament had a symposium on the protection of the personality in the media, and at that time the media legislature was defended by all political groups against journalists and publishers. At that time, the absence of § 301 StGB was in no way required, which regulates the prohibited publication and in which the prison sentence, which is now so massively attacked, is regulated. § 56 does not deal with the limitation of journalists. This provision - I have read it to you - aims to protect persons who have a legitimate interest in publishing certain data. This consideration is made in individual cases by the courts, and those who reject such provisions of protection doubt either the ability of the courts to make such decisions in the appropriate manner, or – and this is worrying – he generally refuses a need for protection of the individual. The protection of individual innocence is also a fundamental pillar of democracy. If we are now discussing a draft law on the weighting of goods, this must be done with the necessary objectivity and seriousness. Since so much has been quoted from media today, I would like to read to you something very interesting that Hubert Feichtlbauer wrote in the "Furche": "However, it is a disregard for journalistic principles to evaluate the whole draft only from one point of view and to exaggerate the intended intensification. It is true that freedom of the press, as essential as it is, has its limits and that private interests of third parties are such a limit. The problem lies in the definition of public interest. In a democracy, there is no doubt that public interest should be given priority. However, in times of total detachment of all private areas, the protection of the intimate atmosphere should remain a recognised value."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17254	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17284	I am always glad that you are so easy to excite, Mr Westenthaler – but I think the whole House knows that, and therefore I do not want to argue that more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: There are two questions: How high were the fees? How high were the fees at Euroteam? That's a question...!]] – Mr Khol, that you are also putting yourself in this series, what is reaching your level is more surprising to me – but actually it doesn’t really surprise me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We want to know the height of the honorary!]] What surprises me much more, Mr Klubobmann Khol, is that today you have presented yourself here as a constitutional law expert and have pointed out your profession, but today's debate on freedom of the press and the freedom of expression has opened up with the remark, so it is not so significant. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Has... also the honorary note remained due to you?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How was the honorary note?]] Mr Khol! I think this is a derailment that is looking for the same. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The question about the day: How high was the fee you received from "Euroteam" for legal advice?]] I would also like to say: The fact that you have said that actually shows how far it has obviously come with this ÖVP. Mrs. Colleague! If you say that you have doubts about what is actually being said about this – and I try to prepare it somewhat objectively now, although this is not too easy in view of this argumentation and also the opinion of the Federal Minister – then I would think that you should really look at the history of what it really is about. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: How high was the fee?]] I believe that the situation we are discussing here must always be seen in the light of what is happening under this Minister of Justice. If you are trying to distract here today and give the impression that this is not really a matter of media, you seem to forget that the case in which this § 301 StGB was first applied in the Judicatur was the case again. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, we want to know something about you!]] You're forgetting that. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You haven't said how high the honorary note was, how much that is in euro, at "Euroteam"!]] Therefore, it is probably legitimate to recognize that this is actually – and you can only agree there, Mr Van der Bellen – an blatant attack against the media and against freedom of expression. You want to distract from that now. You will not succeed, however, because the people, because the journalists have seen all this through, and therefore you can still make so much effort, the flaw that you have revealed here, what it really is about you, it will bind you forever! [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're clear!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are the "glass man" here, except for the honorary note!]] Mr Haigermoser! I don't think you can follow me, but I think that's relatively irrelevant. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I want to know at last how high the honorary note was!]] This also applies to many others you listen to. The media judge Professor Weis is the epitome for those who deal with media law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the honorary note? I would like to know the level of the honorary note! What did you get? What did "Euroteam" pay you?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: In Schilling and in Euro! It's called Euroteam! How much Euro did you get from Euroteam?]] He is a judge in the first instance who deals with media law in a massive way, and he says to your "toll" novelle – of which you, Mr. Federal Minister, today have said that she has nothing to do with media law at all – that these innovations would turn back the wheel of media justice, apart from inconsistencies and false media-law definitions. He says it is also in stark contradiction with the 1981 media law. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, if you state here that all this, namely the restriction of journalism, is not intended, then I really recommend: Read the statements made on the occasion of the Media Act! There can be You read, for example, that the Justice Committee supports the essential ideas of these provisions, namely that personal protection should be guaranteed primarily through a civil compensation claim against the media owner rather than the judicial punishment of journalists. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on a note by the speaker) Is this the fee note?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Show the honorary note finally!]] This has actually been exactly the crucial provision that came in new media law at the time – Mrs Colleague, I hope you can confirm that – namely the decriminalization of journalistic professional practice. This has been declared to be the central destination. If you say here today that you have to do something for the victims, for those in whose rights are involved by a publication, I have to tell you: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Are you victims of Euroteam?]] You know very well that you can do this best by properly constructing the compensations, the claims for damages. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Before I went down here today, I once again inquired where there are, in fact, change needs in the area of media rights, where these fines or these compensations are too small. I didn't find a real occasion. That's exactly what you're supposed to consider. Of course, we all support the fundamental right of personal protection, only: With the answer of criminal law, you will certainly not do that. And that's why what you really want is so clear: because what you want to say is clearly contradicted by the fact that there is already this civil law provision. In the Media Act, all that you want to fight here is already sanctioned with compensation payments. That is why, in fact, only one argument is left – and this has become clear in the way in which the prosecutor's office proceeds under the authority of the Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer – that you simply want to use a provision against the media which has not been applied for decades. I believe that this is quite clear from the point of view that the rule of law which you are proposing to represent here is not what you mean by a rule of law. That is why we will fight this provision in the novelle with all possible means. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17563	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17584	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, On the urgent request made by the Greens regarding freedom of the press and the freedom of expression, I would like to begin by saying that: A fair, independent procedure is considered to be human rights for individuals as well as the human right of media freedom. I personally, as human rights spokesperson, want to see all aspects of human rights in a protected and balanced relationship, i.e. in balance. I would also like to point out clearly that it is my concern to re-acquaint the matter in order to lead it to a constructive discussion. In addition, the Criminal Process Reform Act is available as a draft. So there is still enough time to question and discuss all relevant points. However, in the whole discussion on the draft judgment on the reform of the criminal proceedings, I have noticed a few points in particular: The so highly criticised provisions of § 56 are already contained in the first draft discussion of 1998, i.e. in the draft Michaleks and were in no way criticised at that time. ==References====External links==* Official website January 1975 under Minister of Justice Broda in force – and my knowledge has not yet been predicted by anyone with an unreasonable hardness and illegalness of human rights in criminal law. If you know these facts, you can't resist the impression that the green colleagues here are trying to create a "Lex Pilz" with caution. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That leads astray!]] It is also necessary to highlight the following: If one considers that there is also a need to protect the interests that are worthy of protection, then the accused and journalists, from my position as human rights spokesperson, must be treated equally. A criminality of the publication only if it is made by the accused, but not if it is done by journalists, seems to me to be unnecessarily illegal, taking into account the fundamental right to freedom of the press. I would also like to stress in particular that the Chamber of Advocates Vienna welcomed the intended reforms. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At this point I may quote the president of the Vienna Bar Association Dr. Peter Knirsch: Dr. Knirsch sees the excitement over the planned novelles of the criminal procedure as an expression of a "popular legal understanding" because the top principle of a democratic legal system has to be a fair procedure for everyone. Finally, I would like to say that although the Greens are always very happy to quote from the Whites' report, it is also worth noting that the Austrian Government is in favour of the common European values and that Austria is not behind the other Member States of the European Union with regard to respect to the rights of minorities, refugees and immigrants. The report also emphasizes that Austria is the only country in which the European Convention on Human Rights is in the constitutional order. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore not in line with the facts and it is objectionable if the Greens here with their urgent request give the impression that freedom of the press and opinion in Austria would not comply with European standards. The urgent request, and in this context also the request for distrust of the Federal Minister for Justice, must therefore be rejected from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17629	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17650	Ladies and gentlemen! I stress the importance of educational journalism, and this is what the critics of this legal provision are about. Many abuses and scandals of the past would simply not have come to light, there would not have been journalists who have become initiative. The procedures relating to the "Lucona" affair, the "Noricum" affair or the AKH procedure, for example, are procedures in which many SPÖ politicians were involved, and everything was done by the then members of the socialist government to put these facts under the carpet. It was very important, therefore, for journalists to inform them that they are becoming initiative that there were court proceedings. I would like to stress that this educational journalism is not at all in danger! All that is claimed by journalists, by politicians, that now it is impossible to find out, is quite simply invented. [[Abg. Oils: Ah! Interesting!]] It can still reveal any journalist. It is quite simply an uncertainty that is being carried out if it is claimed that in the future there will no longer be educational journalism. If you say, Well, that's what Mrs Partik-Pablé and Mr Ofner say, then I should also like to point out to the well-known media judge Dr Bruno Weis, who has already been quoted by Mr Jarolim. In a "NEWS" interview, he commented on this section 56. I have spoken to him personally today because I have known him for 30 years, and he has also allowed me to name his name and to return his opinion. We have talked about whether educational journalism in Austria would be in danger by the new provision, and the well-known media judge Dr. Bruno Weis has said, it does not change at all, it can still take place in Austria in Enlightenment Journalism, the journalists can expose all the abuses as before. I think you have to take note of that. I really find it paradoxical: There goes out from the opposition parties one by one and insists on the old arguments, without considering the reasons why journalism in Austria is not at all at risk. You should note that it is not the way you imagine it to be. Their intention is obviously to be uncertain, and manifestly this intention of uncertainty became quite clear to me when Mr Van der Bellen said that we do not have a well-founded rule of law in Austria. I think that's an unheard-of claim. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Take this back, Mr. Van der Bellen!]] Mr. Van der Bellen is an economic scientist, but still he should be convinced that the rule of law is fully functioning in Austria and that our rule of law is well founded. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Those who put the rule of law at risk are such ignitions as you, who fear continuously, spread uncertainty and say that our legal system collapses, that freedom of the press is no longer guaranteed and so on. These are the ones that can pose a risk to rule of law, and I would really warn you about that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm clear, I'm politically clear what you're talking about here. It is quite easy to argue politically with this accusation of a danger to freedom of the press, if one puts them in a wrong context. If you say that the media will miss a muzzle and that attacks on the journalists are started – Mr. Jarolim said the journalists would have "looked through" everything – then of course you can be wonderfully uncertain. In reality, the journalists have not understood anything, Mr Jarolim, or they have deliberately misunderstanded. These journalists, including the International Press Institute, obviously did not consult their lawyers and did not seriously consult with them. I believe that it is urgently necessary for you to put more responsibility in your political activity from the opposition, especially in the interests of the rule of law, which is always so important to you, otherwise I would have to assume that your interest in the rule of law is only a pretext and that your real interest is only to negotiate small political money.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17713	Mrs Bures spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to begin with the replay of the claim to be corrected and to compare that claim with the corrected one.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17738	Mr President. Mrs Partik-Pablé said that the well-known media expert Professor Bruno Weis said that the draft did not change anything about freedom of the press. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Wrongly quoted! She said, "At the reporting," she said.]] It's true, rather, that Wise says – I'm putting it right by quoting it as follows –: I say that as a judge: These innovations would turn back the wheel of media justice. Apart from inconsistencies and the false definition of media law of this draft, there is also a lack of basics. – This is the opinion of Professor Weis.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17786	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17808	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Morak, Secretary of State, said that European standards on freedom of expression were safeguarded. Mr State Secretary! I would like to remind you of some of the findings and ask you again if you will remain in your opinion expressed. I would remind you, for example, that this Minister of Justice, who is sitting next to you on the government bank, has taken his own phone to inform the media of an advertisement against the German theatre maker and director Schlingensief, who, in an admittedly provocative, provocative action, has drawn attention to the intolerantness of the statements made by Mr Windholz in connection with honour and fidelity. Not Windholz has been announced by the Minister of Justice, but the artist Schlingensief, who drew attention to this in a provocative action before the opera. European standard, Mr State Secretary, or not European standard? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now only remain with this Minister of Justice and freedom of expression in this country, and I am not referring to any other statements that have already been made today, from Haider, Westenthal and so on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did I do?]] But I agree – and this also concerns the current Minister of Justice, and it concerns freedom of the media in this country – like a small newspaper, 200 copies edition, has made acquaintance with the understanding of this federal government of freedom of expression: the "left turn". I understand that you do not agree with this title, but with regard to the response, Mr State Secretary, I ask you. This magazine "Linkswend", 200 copies edition, has printed a letter of readers who was certainly not very tasteful, but it raises the question of the reaction of the Federal Government. In this letter of readers, unkind words were used in the direction of the Federal Government. Several liberal government members have felt offended and complained, and the judge Dr. Weis, who has now been called by several recognized media experts, has literally held the first instance in his knowledge – I quote literally, Mr. President –: "At the same time, the word ‘shit government’ is, in principle, suitable to represent an insult, in this case it must be recognized, in the context of a suspicion based on the claim, that the objective existence of an offence, respectively. Spotting in the sense of §§ 6 para. 1 MedienG, 115 para. 1 StGB has not been manufactured." And it goes on to say in the explanatory statement: "In this environment, however, the word "shit" means by no means a particular form of reduction or negative assessment, nor does it have a special value for attention and injury. Rather, ‘shit’ is used in the sense of ‘bad’ or ‘mies’. It is therefore not, according to the nature and circumstances of the presupposition of 'Shit Government' this choice of words is not decisive." This was decided by Judge Dr. Weis. But see, there came the second instance, and – what a surprise! – the blue media curator Ernest Maurer judges: It's not like that. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do you mean, "blue"?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] He sends it back to the first instance. And it is also remarkable that the member of the government, the ex-minister Schmid, who has felt offended here, has not turned on the prosecutor, the prosecutor or the financial attorney. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Who, do you think, has filed a complaint here? – The law firm Böhmdorfer-Gheneff! [[Abg. Oillinger: The well-known law firm!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What does this have to do with press freedom?]] [[Further calls and appeals between representatives of the liberals, the ÖVP and the Greens.]] And so this paper is – it has several other complaints now; yes, it's called "left turn," and that's why it doesn't fit you! – threatened in their existence. It is a small newspaper, perhaps others will follow more closely and are already affected, for example, by the quotations and the replay of the quotations made by Mr Pilz. You know, there's a lot of freedom of expression on the paper, but – and that's just the essential question in this context –: If blue judges, blue lawyers act in this dark circle, then the rule of law, which is firmly anchored on the paper, threatens to become a right state of blue embossing. Mr State Secretary! I wish you a very good night's sleep.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17912	Mr Westenthaler spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Mr deputies, are you sure you are starting to reflect the claim to be corrected, and are you contrasting it with the corrected situation? – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17937	Sure, Mr President. - High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has claimed that Mr Richter Maurer is "blue media curator" in the ORF or elsewhere. – This statement is incorrect and absolutely wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: He was proposed by you!]] The fact is that Mr. Maurer is the ORF curator, sent by the Austrian Federal Government. He is neither a member of the FPÖ nor a functional. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] He can't be thrown as easily into a casterl as you would like to do with your party-political glasses.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e17980	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18002	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I have heard a lot today about freedom of expression, freedom of the press, and as an introduction I have heard a real fire for freedom of expression and press. I've got some of my colleagues. Van der Bellen belongs that it must be possible not only to express his opinion in a small, private circle, but of course also to publish it and so on. That's all right and right. However, it always seems to me a bit as if the respective location determines the position or vice versa. I think there is a lot to be measured here in this House by two measures at all. You always look at others – in this case it is once again the Minister of Justice – without even looking at yourself. If I look at what we have already experienced here in this House in similar cases, where we ourselves bear the responsibility, I have to say that we also have to keep in mind the mirror. When Mr Jarolim comes down to the speaker's desk once again to get rid of his accusations, he naturally forgets that in his personal responsibility when it came to being a member of the investigative committee, although in some cases he did not accept this morale "Euroteam" and former employer of Mr. Chair President, who is at the centre of the investigations in these matters. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Mag. Worm.]] It has already been remarkable that he has probably scratched the curve of his own group and left the Committee over a certain amount of pressure. But that's where he could have shown morality, and that's where I missed it. Or: I would like to point out how we here in the House sluggishly changed the practice and practice of the Immunities Committee, just because at that time it was opportune for the SPÖ, when it was responsible, to deliver free mandates to the judicial system, at all costs and at all costs what it wants. This proverbial practice is not even covered by the law. That's the best thing at all! We're asking ourselves here. We don't need a minister to do that. Here we ourselves are called to finally make order. When the liberals, who were at the centre of this criticism at the time, opposed this unilateral or arbitrary saying practice, handling or modification, you were the sausage, Mr Van der Bellen! They were also in this high house at the time. Why did you not allow for freedom of expression, freedom of communication and, ultimately, freedom of the press for Members at the time? I missed you because it was against the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Why?- Oh, my God!]] There it was you sausage, and I'll throw it before you. You also don't care if a barberl is sentenced 56 times. You don't care if a journalist like Mölzer is sentenced. It doesn't matter to you when it comes to a medium that is called "at the moment" when it comes to finally making it the garage. [[Call at the SPÖ: Who is this?]] You don't care about freedom of opinion because you think that these media belong to you. You can also read in press releases: If a Secretary of State announces his personal opinion in a medium, he should be released. An officer! - That's your morale. I don't hear anything! I don't hear anything! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They shall be released, all the liberals shall come to prison, 20 years behind bars. Mrs Stoisits asked for this from the speaker's desk. I didn't forget that! The rule of law is not in danger. The rule of law is only in danger when greens with reds come to the government in that state, and that is not possible. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Unheard!]] That's what I'm telling you at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18078	Mr Van der Waal (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. – honourable Member, I need you to point 58 para. 2 not to draw attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18102	Mr President. High house! Mr Graf, in his just-informed remarks, wrongly claimed that the immunity committee of this House had changed its decision-making practice to hand over freedom of movement to Members. I'm actually correcting: The Immunities Committee has therefore changed its decision-making practice in order to help citizens who at the time were massively accused and defamated and unable to defend their right.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18138	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Wittmann. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18205	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! [[Call to the liberals:Not always the tailor changed!]] I am somewhat upset, first of all about the appearance of Mr Graf, who claims that the rule of law would be in danger if the government were red and green. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Euroteam!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Euroteam!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I claim that this rule of law is now in danger because blue and black are in the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I claim that the textile industry is in danger because you are wearing such a sakko!]] Mr. Minister! When you took office, I don't know, perhaps in a certain euphoria, you said to a statement by the head of state of Carinthia, who meant that politicians who argue against the government could also be imprisoned: A superior proposal. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Quote correctly!]] – That was Her appointment as Minister of Justice, and other things followed: They are referred to in the White Paper as the only minister who does not meet the democratic demands of Western democracies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] You have also remained true to this line by issuing a personal license to the head of state of Carinthia by saying: He's already exalted over all suspicions! – This, although the investigations had only begun. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the Wittmann?]] You have repeatedly demonstrated that you do not exercise this office with the objectivity of a Minister of Justice of a democratic state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You always take such steps, and you take one step again by saying: One should think about whether one could also lock up unloving press people who do not write what this government is pleased with. The idea of arresting politicians followed the idea of doing so with the press. This gets method when you add what you're planning with the ORF. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Ah, that's what exposes you now!]] That's a total work of art that you're spreading there. This is a puzzle in which the stones, when precisely put together, give an image that has nothing to do with the democracy and the rule of law that we represent. [[Call the ÖVP: I believe that!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We simply have different ideas of a democracy than you do. Don't you think you're going too far with your statements in public? Do you not believe that you are bringing this rule of law to the brink of the standard of Western democracies? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop it, you failed State Secretary!]] Don't you think you as a person should have had the consequence for a long time? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Do not believe that each one of your remarks, your thoughts or Your legislative plans in other democracies would have long been in favour of resignation? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He wanted to ban you too!]] The whole of your actions poses a great danger to this rule of law. [[Ironic cheerfulness and other intercessions with the liberals.]] You know very well what you're doing with these proposals and what instruments you're putting in control of the governor. And you know very well that thinking about the imprisonment of politicians and the imprisonment of unloving journalists brings democracy to the brink of administration and brings the rule of law to light far away from any democratic requirement.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18446	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18462	... provide a service and take the hat.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18492	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 430/A) by Mrs Van der Bellen and others on freedom of the press and the freedom of expression. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Pilz and Mr Comrades on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Justice under Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Too little again!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Seven to zero!]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18554	We now come to the implementation of the brief debate on the request of Mr Dietachmayr, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 387/A by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, a period of time until 5. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18586	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What is Austria's position after 15 months of blue-black government? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Good!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Better than before!]] The highest tax and tax rate, the social peace seems to be at risk, the reputation abroad is damaged, people with low income are moaning under the loads, there are massive deterioration in pension, health and, and, and. And then the chaos with the accident pensions comes. It is already significant, ladies and gentlemen, that a Member of this House, namely Mr Gaugg, is always missing when it comes to such matters. He wasn't here when it came to the ambulance charges, and he's been excused again today, where the accident pensions are concerned. As in the Salzburger Nachrichten, this is precisely what this Member Gaugg meant, as can be read in the Salzburger Nachrichten, that he considers the inequality of old and future accident pensioners to be unconstitutional. The FPÖ-Obmann of Vorarlberg Gorbach also believes that it was very much under pressure in this new regulation. The Social Minister himself was only partially satisfied with the new regulation. Luckily he was not with the accident pension tax, he literally said – he agreed – but he was obliged to carry certain things. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what about this government? Don't you realize you made a serious mistake here? You are not supposed to fix this mistake, but you should remove this tax immediately, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You're talking to a split tongue anyway. I note this when I hear on the one hand that the head of the Workers' and Workers' Federation, President Fassleven, says that this is already okay, while the Christian Trade Unions' Group clearly states that the accident pension tax is unfair. I quote: "The current form of accident pension taxation is unfair according to the basic principles of all world views and deeply contradicts the spirit of the Austrian federal constitution." – These are the statements of the Christian Trade Unionists Group. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's wrong!]] They then say: "The accident pension tax is a completely unfair double taxation and therefore unconstitutional." Unfortunately, Mr Khol is not here, because this sentence would be very impressive for him, because the Christian trade unionists believe that the FCG is "disappointed by the low sensitivity to justice in the ÖVP". – Here again the split tongue shows up on this question! These examples could be continued. I don't want to mention all the quotations here. I'm just thinking that Wolfgang Schüssel said last February that tax increases were not a subject. - Or Riess-Passer on 11th. July last year: There is no mention of tax increases in the programme. The aim is to save expenditure on the one hand. – Or a voice from the Bear valley: Tax increases for budget recovery are excluded. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what about these statements? Where are you today? They have introduced this unfair and unsocial tax. This is the manuscript of the social cold and heartlessness, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The unprecedented social reduction taking place under this Federal Government is carried out, in particular, on the back of accident pensioners. ==References== In this year's years of effective taxation of these accident pensions is probably the most cruel type of scrapping of those who are already disadvantaged in this society who have suffered an accident at work, which is one of the disadvantaged groups of the population who have to face a higher cost of living. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The SPÖ 1988! How was the SPÖ then?]] All fears that the understanding of this coalition of social security constitutes a means of depositing under- and medium-sized incomes have been confirmed. You can't talk, ladies and gentlemen. You can't say you didn't know that or that would have happened to you. No, you can't, because we said quite clearly to you last year. Since the summer of last year, the SPÖ has drawn attention to the non-social impact of this accident pension tax. Our criticism was reinforced after the government decision. I remember: In the discussions on the 2001 budget, experts from the disabled organisations and representatives of the interests of workers' organisations have also pointed to this non-social impact. You didn't listen! They have taken this decision. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: What time-limit do you set?]] ==References====External links== An amendment to the Budgetary Accompanying Act was tabled last November. What have the FPÖ and the ÖVP done? – You have rejected this request! We then asked for a name-named vote in this House – it is to be read in the Minutes. The Members of FPÖ and ÖVP have rejected this request. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Time limits!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't argue, you're guilty of this abuse of accident pensions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Above all, you have already foreseen this in the 2001 budget. I remember You mentioned this – I have already quoted it –: They have planned 2 billion schilling of the approximately 107 000 accident pensioners who receive a total of 6 billion schilling. So you have foreseen that you will be able to use a third in the form of a tax on the budget. And what have you planned for the Foundation users, the Prinzhorns et cetera, who can direct their assets and businesses into foundations? For these you have planned a budget item of 500 million schilling! Two billion schilling here, 500 million schilling there. They see from it the imbalance of this budgetary policy. And we reject them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I could give you a whole list of examples. Also the so-called repair you announce here is of such a curiousness that it is directly sad that you have to quote this here. The FPÖ-Chefin presented the hard tissue last week as a "command of the heart". But as you look closer, this announcement does not keep what has been promised. It's totally curious when you imagine that someone before the 30th. On June 1, an accident pension was granted, which is supposed to be compensated for by the so-called hardness, but someone who had an accident pension after the 1st century. I'm not supposed to get it on July. In your Council of Ministers' decision, there is another sentence that must be broken down on the tongue, ladies and gentlemen. It says here that this reserved tax can be recovered, but there is no legal claim on it. And then, in this Council of Ministers decision, it goes on to say that the accident pensioners can get it refunded, if – now you listen carefully! – there is enough money available in the fund. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a giant pussy you're doing. Therefore, you should not be surprised if it is here called "Griesenwirbel um die Reparatur der Anfallenpen tax" or if the "standard" and all other newspapers quote you. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] As my speaking time unfortunately ends, I would like to end by commenting. In the "Kurier" it says: "Looked at in real political terms, the constant round doctor of his own reforms is an admission to his own weakness." But I think the nail hit Ulrich Stocker's head in the "Small Newspaper" of the 8th century. May, when he says: "Impossible is the manslayer that this government calls "repair". And he concludes with the sentence: "Get away with this pussy as long as it's still time!" I can only agree fully with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18735	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the speakers who have now spoken is 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18760	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The only repair for this conspicuous, diletantic and non-social accident pension tax is the withdrawal of taxation. It's clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So please don't come out of the government factions to praise this repair, your Murks, your constitutional wire rope, as Professor Öhlinger and Professor Mazal called it, perhaps. You have not repaired anything at all, but you only create new injustices with this measure. ==References====External links== July is happening, then there is not even the opportunity to seek the bread of grace from this government, for it is right that this government does not hold anything anyway. Grateful bread and alms are their foreign exchange. The Minister of Social Affairs does not help if he says – as he did in an ORF interview – that he will do his best to avoid hardships, and then in the O-tone: My case was not accident pension tax. – Then why does he do nothing and does not intervene at least now, but looks at this disgusting repair? Why does he allow such a thing? Why this alms distribution without any legal claim for people who have a right to their chance in life? I would like to give you a few examples of how this bread distribution looks: Karl W. is a pensioner, accident pensioner after an accident at work. Heaviest injuries to legs, shoulders, arms and head. Long hospital stays, a life in the wheelchair and on crags. With your measure you take it away from one on the other day 6 000 S per month. He remains alive 21,000 S. A quarter of his pension takes him away. A quarter of his pension! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Tell me what this government has already done!]] Or Peter N., ASVG-pensionist, seriously ill. Take this away from his pension and from his pension per month in addition 3 000 S or 37,000 S per year. Karl W. will go out empty with his request, Peter N. will probably go out empty because he is still a few schillings over 20,000 s. Maybe he'll get a few bromies if you're left with something. Maybe! Unfortunately, Mr Trattner is not in the hall now, but he knows Mr Peter N. very well, because he has already met him. This Peter N., which you take away with your measures 3 000 S, has done a lot of good. When he was still able to work, he bought an apartment and now pays back 11 000 s a month. He asked Mr Trattner to give him back the money you take away from him, because he no longer knows where the family should live. But he is only 37 years old; he has a right to life. Do you know what your colleague Trattner told him? – Go to the bank and talk to the gentlemen about a lower refund rate! I also go personally if you want to, because the "little man" is especially close to the heart of the FPÖ. - Yes, we see that! This is your policy, the policy of the new "heart" fraction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's how you talk to people outside, but you act differently. You no longer trust to tell people the truth about what you decide here. That is a declaration of bankruptcy of this policy, ladies and gentlemen. That's your very personal bankruptcy statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is still a cynical side-by-side view of this measure, because it was, although long required by us, not possible for years to increase payments in the compensation tax fund. All of a sudden. Now someone needs money, and suddenly it was possible to increase these payments from 2 060 S to 2 700 S, Dr. Feurstein. Of course, this has got its price, and the economy has got what it has long wanted, namely the extension of the probationary period for disabled people. Bravo, Federal Government!, I say. "Very" social! Six months you can hire and take advantage of the people, then you can get rid of them again. This has been achieved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The accident pensioners are paying into the budget, and AUVA is also funding the budget from liability reserves. Bravo, Federal Government! But that's the way it is in this government. How did Norbert Stanzel say in the "Kurier"? – "Justice is just one word." – And what is the fatal question that Erwin Zankel asked himself in the "Small Newspaper"? – "Are accident pensions taxed and study fees introduced to buy interception hunters?" This is your "right" policy. Thank you, Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18825	The next speaker was Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e18847	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We only need to listen to what Mr Dietachmayr and then Mrs Plank have done. And then the media echo is reflected in the newspapers, in the individual newsletters, in the relevant media. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We already know your stand on the outside!]] Mrs Plank, the examples you have given, have all been put aside by the German Government's system, which has really been exemplary, exemplary. [[Abg. May. Plank: What, Mr. Pumberger, is aside?]] It is really true that there has been a fall in hardness with the old regulation. No one is denying that. And we responded. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have a weakened perception!]] [[Abg. May. Plank: You didn't respond!]] We've responded. There was a motion for a resolution here in the House that the Federal Government should eliminate these hardships. It went quickly. I would like to congratulate the Federal Government, with the Secretary of State, Mr Social Minister, Mr Finanzminister, and the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: And the number of civilians has been cut short!]] All of them have helped to ensure that people who receive a total of 20 000 S get the tax back and get a grinding system up to 23 000 S. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Plank: But this is not a legal claim! Only when money is in the fund!]] If, like Mrs Haidlmayr, you have a deputies of 100 000 s, then I must say that is not a hard case, Mrs Haidlmayr. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: This is tasteless!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You are tasteless!]] One should also be a little solidarity with those who have suffered an accident in their spare time. But you don't have a skruple at all that they are taxed in full. If you say today that the SPÖ has rejected the taxation of accident pensions from the beginning, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ – the "very" I would like to take back: my dear ones: They were not the ones who from the beginning rejected them, they were the inventors of the taxation of accident pensions! Do you remember 1988? [[Abg. Verbatim: Read your own application!]] It was Minister Geppert and Minister of Finance Lacina. Do you know how the Socialist Lacina and the Socialist Geppert have justified the fact that the accident pensioners have to be taxed? [[Abg. May. Plank: Take a position on the current problem! Take a position on your policy, Mr Pumberger!]] They have the following reasons: "We have so far had the tax inequality of "accident pensioners and invalid pensioners, depending on whether they were accidents at work or leisure accidents, accidents which have not occurred during working hours or on the way to work." "It was the... Opinion and objective to contribute to equal treatment through the taxation of both." [[Abg. Vergestnichtisch: Read more! Read more!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These were the inventors of the accident pension tax: Socialist Lacina and Socialist Geppert, with the strong support of the Social Democrats, who still represents this today. [[Abg. You have to read your own application! Read more!]] They did not create a grinding system at the time. They have completely disregarded the cases of hardness. They have not had any qualms of exemption from minimum incomes. We responded, and that was a good thing. If weaknesses occur, you must also have enough backbone to acknowledge and act quickly and eliminate them. That's what happened, and I think it was quite right and important. Ladies and gentlemen! You want to set a deadline today with Mr Gusenbauer's motion for a resolution 387/A. It says inside, 2 billion schillings are taken away from the disabled. [[Abg. May. Plank: 2 billion take away the accident pensioners! That's your numbers!]] – Haven Are you forgetting or not registered that a billion will be recovered in the form of the disabled billions? Have you forgotten that 600 million Schillings are being recovered by the Federal Government's regime? There's not much left. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why do you do it then?]] 60 percent are classified as hard cases, 60 percent of all accident pensioners are excluded from this scheme by the Federal Government and thus from taxation. You get the tax recovered, and that's good. [[Abg. Dattachmayr: Wrong! No legal claim!]] [[Abg. May. Plank: Wrong, Mr. Pumberger!]] The number of disabled remains, and the increase in the allowance for the invalidity pension from 20 to 50 percent remains. Their 20 percent are also preserved by the less difficult vilified. These are social policy benefits that the SPÖ has not brought together for 30 years! Therefore, we will not join your deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19094	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19116	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if things are claimed five times in such discussions, they do not become more true and not correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Plank: Yes, remember!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You should know: There was the highest tax rate under a SPÖ Finance Minister. You should know, too, Mrs Plank: It is incorrect that there is a double taxation of accident pensions. [[Abg. May. Plank: You say that!]] The accident interest rate is 100 percent at full interest. You know that as well as I do. They deliberately say something wrong. 100 percent net replacement rate, ladies and gentlemen, can't be any more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: And at 30 percent, at 40 percent?]] Mrs Haidlmayr! Mr. Oechsner says about you: "At this point, it is clear that there is no sufficient qualification alone to pursue policies in the interests of disabled people." So you are qualified for disabled people! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Stay with your accident pension tax!]] A disabled person has just said what your policy means for disabled people. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: One of 800,000!]] – The entire Austrian Association for Rehabilitation, ladies and gentlemen! - But you have disqualified yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last 15 months, we have actually made policies for disabled people. I can remind you: We have introduced these disability billions – Mr Pumberger has spoken about them – and that is why there are already a few hundred additional jobs for these people. Do you deny that? [[Abg. May. Plank: The accident pensioners finance them!]] Several hundred additional jobs for disabled people have already been created. [[Abg. May. Plank: The people who finance the accident pensioners!]] We have now presented a draft law that – and you criticize this – increases the compensation tax by 20 percent from 2 060 S to 2 700 S. [[Abg. May. Plank: Yes, because you need money!]] This is in the interests of disabled people in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! For the people covered by the Victim Care Act, we foresee a substantial improvement. I am curious what you will say in the Committee on this legislative initiative for the victims - the victims of crime, the victims of war, the victims of military service and so on - for whom we propose improvements, Mr Ollinger. You will need to discuss this with us in the Committee on Social Affairs in the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen! What the SPÖ has not succeeded, we are now doing: Caring persons, persons caring for the disabled, have now been receiving since 1. January the favoured co-insurance from level 4 and not from stage 5, how you... [[Abg. Oillinger: But we talk about something else!]] Yeah, I'm talking about the disabled. I am talking about the interests of disabled people, ladies and gentlemen. That's why I'm doing it, and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Gentlemen of the Greens! They have forgotten that we are really trying to tackle the skills problem for disabled people in the care sector. Dr. Grünewald, you should actually go with us here and say: Yes, this is a good initiative which the Social Minister has now launched and proposes. Since today, we have here in Parliament a legislative proposal which provides for the accident pension to return to its entirety, who has less than 230 000 S of annual income, ladies and gentlemen. On the examples you have given us, Mrs Plank: ==References== April you have addressed us: A little over 108 000 Austrians receive accident pensions. - That's right. – Two thirds of these have 15 000 S of life – not accident pension, but total life – and these people take one third away. – These people are not taken away, they get the tax back to the full, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Plank: You have to take care of this!]] I am curious what you will do in the Committee on Social Affairs if we present this law to you. I invite you – and you too, President Verzellnich – to discuss this law constructively with us, and I am convinced that – even if you do not agree: We will decide on this law, which is now in place, and will give people the social justice they need and for which we stand, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19303	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19324	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Feurstein, it does not speak precisely for you and for the persuasiveness of your arguments if you need it in such a debate to defame Member Haidlmayr by referring to any disabled person. That is clear here, Mr Feurstein. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But I would like to say something on the subject. Especially warm is my heart when Member Pumberger, a member of parliament – just like all of us – makes himself here, with one of the largest house pharmacies in Upper Austria, and gives good advice on social justice, from here he considers what is good for the accident pensioners. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Shouldn't you work at all?]] That's always nice, and you're getting really warm around your heart. The colleague makes it stupid in the same way. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] In the same way, Mr President, if you, no matter from which forum, turn to the address of early pensioners and criticize them that they are still on retirement so early when you criticize the railways that they claim privileges but are not willing to talk about themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Mr Pumberger! Why do accident pensioners have to carry the reorganisation of the budget? Why not you, why not us? Why? Explain this to me! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: How do you finance this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Why did you make debts?]] Why is the money taken away from accident pensioners? Why? What does that do in the sum? Mr Pumberger then made himself and said: Two billion schillings we want to take, one billion schillings we give back to the disabled, 600 million schillings now get them over the hardenings, remain 400 million schillings. Explain this to me with the 400 million schillings! Calculate the bureaucracy that causes you, you'll count all of this! What does this make except for the punishment of accident pensioners, except for the fact that you clearly explain and identify: Those who have already caught it through an accident should now catch it again by the tax!Unknown term type: "%s".? What makes sense? The net effect of your measure is – if it is really planned in such a way that the disability billions continue to exist – 100 to 200 million schillings over two years. Yes, even Minister of Finance Grasser has already begun to expect and has said: Actually, we don't need that anymore. But you're not ready, but you come here and say, This is a measure of social justice. We'll make the balance. We're socially fair. We're doing something for the poorest in the country. You do something by taking away the money, then hand back small amounts and say: This is at our expense now. We are the great donors of the accident pensioners. We are the great patrons of the disabled. One is true, and one of the objectives of your reform has been achieved. In the sense of mainstreaming, it is stated in the explanations, the interests of disabled people are increasingly being pushed into the general consciousness. Yes, you've done this in the last six months. We had a wide-ranging debate on this, and if there were still some in the beginning here in this country, which were actually of the opinion: Yeah, why not? Why do the accident pensioners get so much un taxed and why not go un taxed at all?, you did it – and for that I am really grateful – that there is now only a small minority – except in the ÖVP and FPÖ ranks – who believe that this measure is really fair and socially fair, which you have introduced and which you are willing to carry on through several buffered reforms. There is almost no one in this country who believes it. You also feel that, you know that too, so you sometimes have to make the heart sound again and publicly show it here. But this pose buys you no longer thank God.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19406	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 387/A by Dr Gusenbauer and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, a period of time until 5. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19443	I'm going to the 4th Negotiation. On the agenda again on the patient charter. Mr Grünewald spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19467	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The effort to ensure patient rights is welcomed. I'm sorry, but the So far, so good, you could mean. Surprised applause, the shortest speech, behaved murmuring, and already I could leave the speaker's desk as quickly as the fastest downhiller in the house. But I'm gonna have to disappoint you. To be honest, it is difficult for me to complain of self-evidentness, for – I now quote from the Charter – what other than self-evidentness can it be that patients without distinction of age, without any difference of gender, religion, origin, the way in which their illness is treated can be treated equally? To be honest, I would have expected this without a Charter and could not have imagined otherwise. But if you believe that even what has long been a law must be assured, is not my question justified that you yourself do not believe that this law is already more than paper and has experienced realization? Not even you yourself believe that these rights for which we have fought are guaranteed. So if the patient charter's motive had been honest, I'd like to put the hat in front of you, but let's start by examining the whole thing about honesty. Undisputed – I give you the right – is that patient rights represent a cross-sectional matter and are scattered over a variety of laws in a jungle of different competences and responsibilities. That's right. This does not make it easier to enforce a federal, uniform law. I admit that too. But what I can't find is that we're capitulating for it and just don't want a federal law at all. The question is also: Should we be satisfied in Austria with nine different legal situations for patients – yes or no? Your answer should be: Yes. I also have no concern that words such as "words" or the "right to treatment and care" would not appear in the Article-15a agreements of all federal states, but I already ask you: How vague and how diffuse can a Charter be, so that not really concrete, completely real concerns come under the wheels? I wonder. I have no fear that in the future the words "adequate" or "useful" will occur as regards treatment, but who guarantees me that these words "adequate" and "useful treatment" will not be interpreted differently from federal to federal. You won't be able to, otherwise you wouldn't have needed an article-15a agreement. Their trust in national leaders must be great. When we are with the national leaders, I wonder: Do you insist that in all the breasts of national leaders and financial representatives a warm, strong heart for the patients hits, or do you simply insist that the golden heart of Vienna be transplanted in the federal states, and then everything is for the best? I would be surprised – and it makes me thinkful – if we had a uniform Federal Animal Protection Act in a few years, but nine different rights for patients. I think that would be embarrassing. If it's not embarrassing for you, you should say that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Don't put people with animals the same way, please!]] Let us call the Charter what it is, an emergency solution, whereby I would put the emphasis on need and not on solving it. What we should decide today – I acknowledge it and will vote in agreement – is ultimately nothing but a collection of sweet words with but rather very strongly emphasized Platonic character, and a Platonic character is honestly too much of political abstinence to me. [[Detonatative condolences and bravoruf des Abg. Dr. Leiner]] Your text, certainly excellent and well written by officials, resembles, if you read it through, somehow a minnesang in which wills, tendons and dreams build up, but he wears himself out in this will, tendons and dreams, and I would have expected at least more implementation orientation from a political minnesang. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why is the whole thing now vague? Where is the national guarantee for psychotherapy? Are fixed restraints really social? Does this full-bodied sentence mean that medical care is guaranteed at a professional level, not with the willingness to call and other realities? Do you understand something about patient education, and do you know how much personnel and resources they need? How do you want to guarantee that there is enough time for fluid tape medicine? Why Have You're dedicated to the topic of decent dying just four "sat" lines? Is the sufficient content of a patient charter? Why didn't you remember UNESCO with the children's right to companion people? – You have luxuated this to a canal destination, to a possibility. I think that too is relatively vague. The covenant remains in the role of the traveling preacher. I would have liked to see a fraction of the courage you have shown at universities and in the cash register system – however, quite wrong and inaccurate. But here, with the patients, don't show that courage and that courage. The simplification is more than nothing – I admit – but more than nothing is not a huge achievement and an easy to deal with task. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: They are always the acting persons!]] But that it is – and that is what I am doing – in order to satisfy the interests of the country of responsibility of a powerless republic, that is what I think is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19541	The next speaker was Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19562	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to my previous speaker, I consider this government proposal, which is now before the national Council for the vote, to be an important document. It concerns the patient charter, an agreement to ensure patient rights: Right to treatment and care, right to respect, dignity and integrity, right – very important – to self-determination and information, right to documentation, special rights for children – which are especially dear to me – right to represent patient interests, right to enforcement of claims for damages. It is an agreement between the federal government and the country, already ratified by Carinthia, Burgenland and Upper Austria. Agreements with Lower Austria and Styria are in the Council of Ministers, Tyrol has agreed to do so. Vienna, Salzburg and Vorarlberg are missing. You can now ask: What does the patient need this patient charter for? – The right to treatment according to the current state of science or the right to confidentiality is already contained in the current legal order. Other essential patient rights have long been undisputed in literature and jurisdiction. That is, these rights are not available. But what is available is a lack of information. There are also difficulties in enforcement and a massive legal fragmentation. You will find these patient rights scattered in the Medical Law, the Social Insurance Act, the Criminal Code, also in national laws such as the Landes-KAG, in provisions for the municipal health service and the rescue sector – in many different legal regulations. However, this reduces the possibility of enforcement for the patient. Conclusion: It is not necessary to create a new law, but to anchor the rights. They shall be laid down in the agreements referred to in Article 15a B-VG by the Federal Government and the Land respectively by a bilateral commitment to respect and safeguard these patient rights. Both commit themselves to this. This has the advantage that long-standing and newly created patient rights are summarized in a federal law paper. This piece of paper is very valuable for our patients, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I ask all the political groups to accept this paper, this government paper, and I ask all the political groups to influence the Members in those federal states who have not yet ratified this agreement for the patients with the federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19613	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19635	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As part of this decision on the patient charter – Mr State Secretary – I have tried to say that in committee too – I am clearly far too little about what is in it. If someone comes to the hospital today, I assume he has the right to be treated there. I also assume that hopefully the measures necessary will be taken. I have always assumed – I would have expected a patient charter to make more substantial statements than what I had already taken for granted – that there would have been something else. Mr State Secretary! I would have liked, for example, that hospitals should be fully equipped with accessible access. I would have liked it to be determined that the wet cells should be adapted in bed stations so that they can also be used. I would have liked to see clear guidelines on how information is passed on to deaf or blind people. I would have liked to see control of how communication between deaf people and the hospital staff is going about. Mr. State Secretary, I would have liked all of this to be in place. I would also like disabled people to have a right to take their assistance to the hospital, but not only that they are not mentioned, but also that children do not have the right to have parents or persons of their trust in the hospital. They should have a right by law, and not only if a bed is accidentally empty, which can be used for this purpose. I wish I had, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! I would also have liked the health report to be discussed in plenary and not finished in committee. This does not only raise doubts in me, but it has prevented you from presenting the health report to the public, so that the public does not know what is in it. This leaves me to the conclusion that you either do not stand up to what you – especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – have done in recent years as a government party in health policy, or that you are enjoying the present content. I don't know what it's all about, but I'd like to know. However, I would like to address the health report because I consider it very important that the debate on the health report here in Parliament take place in a different form, namely in the following form: Mr State Secretary! I ask you: Where does the health report focus on women's health? [[Abg. May. Hartinger: There is an own unit, Mrs Collaborative – if you don't know yet!]] What information about this is available? What information do you plan to include in the next health report in this direction? What about basic information on environmental pollution? What about the relationship between poverty and disease? What about the statistics on mental illness? – I would also like patients’ rights to be given more space in the health report than just half a page. Mr State Secretary! I wish you were honest with me that you would comment on these points. I think this Parliament has the right to tell us today what you are planning to do in the next health report so that, when this health report is available, your statements and your promises can also be evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19672	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19694	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr, I would advise you: Perhaps, as you always have such wishes, you will be sending a wish list to the Christian Child once. Maybe that'll help. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] The health agenda is currently dominated mainly by a topic, namely the financing issue. [[Abg. Grabner: That's the last one!]] Central findings: The scope and quality of medical care are not sustainable at today's level in the future. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: If you tell me to write a letter to the Christian Child, why do we have a State Secretary?]] – Mrs Haidlmayr! It might make sense for you to listen to me, too. I've listened to you too. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Patient support, says: putting the patient at the centre... [[Abg. Silhavy: Highness has nothing to do with intelligence!]] I assume, Mrs Silhavy, that you also want to put the patient at the centre. Or don't you want that? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So you don't want to put the patient at the center? Well, then I'm glad you're not in government anymore, I can only say. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Patient support must never be considered as a luxury. [[Abg. Huber: You should think about...!]] We do not seem to agree on this – I do not understand. The doctor alone determines the demand for medical services by his knowledge and knowledge. [[Abg. Silhavy: When you confuse prepotence with intelligence...!]] As it also provides services, the market mechanism fails and costs increase. This dilemma can only be resolved if the patient's position is strengthened. Finally, the Constitution guarantees the protection of human dignity and the individual's right of self-determination. What are the rights here? First of all, the general law on health care and the same access to health care. Secondly, it concerns the right to respect, dignity and integrity. These include, in particular, the right to privacy, the right to confidentiality and confidentiality, as well as the right to peaceful and careful treatment. Thirdly, the right to self-determination is provided for. Hiezu include the right to participate as a patient and consumer, as well as the right to a dignified death. Fourthly, the right to information is affected. This includes information on diagnosis and treatment as well as the right to understand the health history, in the health report. Unfortunately, a fundamental contradiction remains, ladies and gentlemen. Emancipation, which wants a strong and self-confident patient, finds its natural limit in its physical suffering. A patient needs his energy for the healing process. He often lacks the necessary strength for a discussion with the provider side and for a dynamic commitment to his rights. He needs professional and dedicated help through an effective system of patient support. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this agreement on patient charter is an effective system for patient support. Among other things, the meaning of this patient charter – which has become pre-worked on how to recognize how to start during the last legislative period – is to summarize long-standing patient rights in one piece and thus make them more readable and viable. Since we have a federalistic system in particular in the field of health – which, in my view, is not general, but worthy of discussion in the field of health – the countries had to take part in this agreement or should the countries take part in and take part in this agreement. At first, this agreement was not supported – apart from a federal state. This was the state of Carinthia. I would like to say that it really fills me with pride that, in one of his first official acts, after he became the head of state, our Mr. State captain, Dr. Haider, concluded this patient charter bilaterally with the Federation. I have spent many years in the Styrian Landtag in order to achieve this also for the Styria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, this was pursued by the socialist, by the Social Democratic Health Council. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also evident here that our government, our freedom ministers, our State Secretary, are thinking and working with commitment and with heart for the cause of our patients. Now almost all federal states have completed this patient charter. [[Abg. Huber: You can write letters to the Christkind!]] I hope that a red Vienna does not think Partyideologically, but works for the Vienna patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19852	Mr Waneck, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19873	Mr President. High house! The health report I have just referred to – for this reason I avoid addressing it in terms of content – concerns in its wording, which is very good and which has been carried out by us, ultimately the time of the last government. It is therefore not criticised by me here. If a defect has been identified, especially in terms of women's health, I ask that it be addressed to those responsible for the last government. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: I wish myself..!]] On the other hand, we have very well recognized the shortcomings and have also come to the realization that substantial improvements are possible. One of these is the agreement on which we are to vote today. I remember that one year ago this was partly smiled or viewed as utopian. In the meantime, it has become the fact that not only Carinthia as a pioneer country, but also two other federal states – now the Burgenland is voting here, and soon Upper Austria will be voting – have ratified this treaty. Three other countries have also notified their interest, or the corresponding steps have already been taken. I can even mention – this is a message from yesterday – that the state of Vienna has now also expressed the desire to join this Charter. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When it was used to find only the smallest common denominator in Article 15a agreements, we have now succeeded in finding the greatest common denominator by means of appropriate work and persuasiveness. Part of it is this strengthening of patient rights. I think you can be proud to vote on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19915	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19936	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to stress here that the present patient charter is not only a signpost in the right direction regarding patient rights, but, in my opinion, it is also a milestone on this path. This is a milestone to clarify the right to treatment and care, but it is also particularly pronounced that pain therapy, for example, is an important area – even one of my previous speakers has mentioned this today – that needs to be forced to improve the quality of life of patients. It's about dignity and integrity. One has spoken here today of the dignified death. As a young person, who may have more open access to this area, I think that this taboo theme should also be discussed in the self-determination clauses. A survey will also take place there. In my opinion, it should also be possible for patients to refuse therapy or treatment. This is also mentioned in these self-determination rights. It is also about documentation, it is about special rights of children. I would like to stress that the patient charter now also states that staff dealing with children should be particularly trained. I think this is an important point. Of course, it is also desirable to develop this paper further. I could imagine that there are more special training courses for hospital staff – including doctors – when they are accompanied by death. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that all these things have already been regulated, in the Hospital Law, in the Rescue Act, in criminal and civil law, in social security law and so on. But there has been a far-reaching lack of competence. One thing we all know, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen: In most cases, the overriding of competence implies that those concerned remain on the track. That's not supposed to happen at all, but it's just like that. In this sense, I believe that this article 15a-B-GV agreement is really a good thing to support. [[Abg. Silhavy: B-VG!]] - Yes, B-VG. I do not want to hide here – and this cannot be said – that there was still consensus about it in 1990 – that is, also in the previous government, however, across all parties, as I would like to stress – but unfortunately this good idea could not be realized. It took – I want to add that – a Carinthian head of state, who, as I believe, had to awaken this tangible solution from the thorny sleep. I do not know exactly whether Jörg Haider had to kiss the woman Hostasch to open her eyes – but the fact is that she was the first to put the signature under this paper. I think just Carinthia has shown here that we put human and patient rights first in our actions and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e19972	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee to approve the conclusion of the current agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act in 421 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 5. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 140/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald and comrades on the introduction of a non-indebted medical liability (557 of the supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 225/A (E) by Dr Elisabeth Pittermann and others on compensation for the hepatitis C victims of plasma pheresis companies (558 of the supplements) 7. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 271/A (E) by Mrs Kurt Grünewald and others on compensation funds for persons infected with hepatitis C (559 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20047	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Silhavy has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20075	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Thankfully, the President-in-Office has already explained what three requests we are debating on this point. There are three applications that have all been rejected by this government coalition. Mr State Secretary! The rejection of the claims for compensation for hepatitis C victims was justified by you by the fact that such a fund has already been created. However, you have remained guilty to us for a large number of answers to the questions we have asked, for example to questions about the level of compensation. You have pointed out that all of this has to be defined and conceived first. They also said that the pharmaceutical companies are still excluded from the payment obligation. You have said that you will conduct further negotiations. I assume that you will probably not be able to give us more information about this even today. The really interesting political discussion on health – colleague Haidlmayr has already said it in the previous debate contribution – would have been the one on the health report 2000. But the discussion on this health report has immediately prevented ÖVP and FPÖ – in good manner, I would like to say, in Drüberfahrer-Mentality – from doing so in this plenary session. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You were so "good" on TV!]] Now I ask myself, Mr Rasinger: Why? What are you afraid of if we were to debate this health report here in plenary in public? [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You know I...!]] – You did not need to be afraid, Mr Rasinger. At the time, her party was even involved when the health policy in Austria was still excellent and had good values. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I worked well with Hostasch! I appreciate her today!]] I am glad that you still appreciate Mrs Hostasch today. I'm also glad you worked well with her. But obviously you are afraid of the discussion about how you are now working with these members of the government. To be honest, Mr Rasinger: I even understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But maybe it could be, too, Mr. Rasinger... [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: I would also work well with a minister Silhavy!]] I'm glad you'd be working well with me, too. Mr Rasinger, may it be that this health report contains a few figures and facts that show that a different health policy was previously made, one for people, and not one for people, and not one for people, as is now the case with ambulance charges? [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Too short!]] You say, Mr Rasinger: The established doctors need to get even more because otherwise the ambulance charges are really problematic. Then not only the hospitals are overcrowded, but also the ordinations of the established doctors are overcrowded. You know exactly, there was an increase of 70 percent in established doctors from 1980 to 1998. That's all in the health report. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: But not cash doctors!]] Why do you not want to debate him there, Mr Rasinger? - I wonder. What are you afraid of? Do you fear that people could recognize that the policy you are pursuing is a false one because it is at the expense of those concerned? [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Because you've been chatting with me so nice, Mr. Rasinger, I'd like to go in on it. But the Secretary of State should not feel disadvantaged about this. – Perhaps it is because it is simply clear that in Austria we have spent 8.2 percent of GDP on health, but we have received the score 9 in the ranking of 191 WHO members. That means we are at the very top – or at least so far, I would like to say – in the leading field. Mr State Secretary, what do you say about this? – You probably won’t keep that with your methods. If I hear health policy changing now, it is quite interesting. First of all, there is obviously not a question of how to operate health policy in Austria, but of what is done with the main association. Yesterday I read: "Waneck paper "Restructuring the main association" includes profound reforms – clear responsibilities...", "Social partners should only consult more in the future." A short time later, another APA message: Mr. Haupt speaks of an "old-fashioned draft discussion". So who has the saying, Mr. State Secretary or Mr. Minister? – The Minister is a member of the government, so in that case I think he is the Minister. But maybe you're focusing on the ÖVP. Mr. Khol brought the ÖVP – probably he would also like to send the Austrians there – to the Gobi Desert. Just as it is in a desert, one easily gets lost and there the orientation is lost. [[Abg. Grandruck: Only the one who doesn't know himself!]] The health policy of this Federal Government is similar: She's without orientation. In this House there is a great deal of prepotence to those concerned. But there are no intelligent solutions to deal with these problems. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! I am afraid that the group therapy that has been prescribed to you – especially yours by the ÖVP – will not be enough. You probably need single therapy. But they won't get you on a health certificate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20218	The next speaker was Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20239	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In December 2000, a new legal regulation entered into force within the framework of the new Bundes-KAG-Novelle, namely the indebtedness-independent patient compensation. She was a huge progress for the patient. Imagine the case, you can operate by the hand and get a local anaesthesia in the nerve in the armpit. The essence of this local anaesthesia is that the anaesthetic is injected into the nerve, and it may be that your arm is paralysed afterwards. The question is: Is that a complication? Is it the doctor's fault? You have the paralysed arm – how long do you have it? – You are inability to work, you have a job. They want to go on assembly, but they can't. The fixed costs continue. The dispute begins. What's happening now? – At this point, you will receive a single first financial assistance, regardless of the debt issue and regardless of the unsolved liability issue. Who gets her? – Any person who has suffered a damage through an investigation, treatment, non-examination or non-treatment in a fund hospital or a non-profit-making non-funding hospital, where the liability is not clearly explained. What compensation do you receive? – You get up to 300 000 s of compensation, and in cases of hardness it is more. Where does the compensation come from? - From the hospitals, 10 s per patient. How do you get her? – This is decided by an independent and non-profit, non-binding Commission in the individual federal states. It is particularly important that the patient is open to any other legal path, of course the way to the court, of course the way to the arbitration centre. The patient first receives help, and then the legal question is resolved. There's never been that before. That makes sense, that is an absolute improvement for the patient. Mr Greenewald! Of course, your request already has a basis, but it is partly due to what has been created – Your request has been available for some time, already obsolete. Of course, and since I give you the right, there are improvements, there are extensions. Every Member here in the House, each group is most warmly invited to participate in these improvements as part of the financial possibilities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, the fact is that – and I would like to emphasise this today – the new health policy by Mr. State Secretary Professor Dr. Waneck has created essential, really essential reforms for the patient. [[Abg. Huber: Aha!]] No "Aha", it's clear: The indebted patient compensation – did it exist earlier, Mrs. Colleague? No, no, no, The patient charter – did it exist earlier, Mrs. Colleague? No, no, no, The establishment of a hepatitis fund, worth 5 million Schilling in 2000, 15 million Schilling in 2001, 15 million Schilling in 2002 – has this been done before, Madam Member? You must honestly say: No, no, no, These are three essential points which, of course, are all worthy of improvement, which can all be even more, but which has not yet been established and which have now been re-established by health policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The patient is at our heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20286	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. Your speaking time is adjusted to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20307	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs. Colleague and very much appreciated colleague Povysil! Let me give you an example: You come to a station, want to solve a ticket, pay it, and the switch official says to you: Please, now a supplement of 10 s is added, because it could be that the locust is not so wonderful together today, a soft misset, a signal is polished wrong around. – This is your indebted medical liability on the ÖBB. Our model looks something different, and you know that. We have created it because liability issues in the area of so-called medical art defects have been the cause of the instigation for decades, the occasion of annoyances and a long, long-known problem, which has not been solved so far, one has to say. The current system of patient compensation, the various compensation funds, and then also various mediation attempts in the dispute proceedings are not all the solution that the majority of those concerned may wish to do if they have experienced the system. The fact is that international studies speak of about 3 percent of all hospitalized patients suffering medical treatment damage. This sounds like a lot, but many cases are not very difficult. A total of 1 percent has been associated directly with doctors. How to react? – I will inform you of another fact: The mass of all patients does not complain because they are unclear whether they have suffered damage due to treatment. She experiences this as a fate, although it was no fate. Such things are not as rare as you might want to believe and hope to believe some doctor or some doctor. The fraction of patients who dare to file an indictment is faced with the fact that only about 90 per cent – which means "only"?, I have to say it the other way around – that only about 10 per cent of all complaints are successful and 90 per cent are rejected. Many are already being advised by their lawyers that they should not take this path because of high cost risks and prospectlessness in complicated review procedures. What's the reason? – The reason for this is the indebted case law in an increasingly complex and more difficult medicine. Debt is also the very difficult civil law procedure in which claims due to guilty behaviour must be enforced. The current system is therefore a confrontation model with some serious disadvantages. One disadvantage: overlong procedure duration, second: very high cost risk, third: Appreciative wars, fourth: very difficult evidence because most of the damage is caused only by minor negligence, which can hardly be demonstrated in a complex medicine. There is also a false damage sallocation. Who will pay for the consequences of the damage suffered? – The social and health insurance you hate, no one else! Then there is the problem of the public damage to the reputation of doctors and the lack of and disturbed relationship of trust between patients and doctors. Nor would there be any change to the burden of proof in the bad procedure, because it only shifts the black Peter from the patients to the health professions, but the civil law procedure, in which in principle only the lawyers win, no one else, is maintained. We have proposed looking for a really indebted-independent solution in the sense of a model of accident insurance. In this system of any extendable risk community, the pharmaceutical industry, manufacturers of medical equipment, pharmacists and midwives could also be included in the pharmaceutical industry. In addition to the advantages for patients and doctors, there are also very massive quality assurance accompanying effects, because this type of insurance will, of course, be very careful in the interest of its contributors to ensure that there is a risk minimization in the outpatient as well as in the stationary area. That would be, I mean, good. The example of the hepatitis C sacrifice shows how urgently such a solution would be necessary. In the 1980s alone, 200 infected persons have been complained of at a plasma pheresis station in Vienna; Experts expect a total of 5 000. When we hear that the municipality of Vienna as the supervisory authority has not even charged here that experts from the Ministry of Health have already demanded the change from the centrifugation methods to automaties and that became law only ten years later, then there is also a lot to investigate what has not been done so far. I can only say that we have received a request from the ministry – from which you will still hear – which is proven to be absolutely wrong. They have seen that in these procedures the large companies Hoechst, Seroplas, Immuno and as well as all of them hot very refined all legal possibilities have leaked out and that for the patients was a long fungal run. What finally happened? Your fund solution has nationalized the damage – "socialised" They may say – and have so far kept the companies harmless. If this is very popular, is it very courageous, is it very innovative, is it your fairy tales of the slim state – if the causality is quite clear and the companies are left out of obligo? I don't think so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I admit that the Prime Minister's commitment is undisputed. But here, too, he could only have been able to show almost those Courages which he has very miserably and inaccurately shown in terms of main association and social security in the fight against these systems. I remember you again: Social security has so far paid for all medically caused damage. This too may have contributed to the process you are now complaining about. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister, first of all, to answer the next questions from us in such a way that at least his quotations are in accordance with the current legislative text, such as the Medicines Act, namely that the safety of products is guaranteed – that is also a matter of medical liability – and secondly, that he shows here the courage which he otherwise very often displays in false places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20387	Mr Rasinger is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20408	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Unfortunately, Parliamentary Silhavy is no longer there – hopefully no interest. I would like to say to Mrs Silhavy, who is absent: If she says that "health policy or health results were...", so speaking in the past form, and regrets that, I must say that we have done this together with the SPÖ for a long time. I already said it in an intermediate call. So the SPÖ times in health policy are not meant to be bad either. Consensus was a high supply in the country – and I look at Mr Edlinger. That's logical, too, because we're all getting sick. This is not at all suitable for party politics. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Edlinger and Mr Huber.]] If we talk today about the indebted-independent liability: Whoever in the country may be interested in ten years and longer, until he is told by the court: We cannot prove with a hundred percent certainty that the mistake has occurred, so they have to pay the damage themselves, Mr. Patient!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's why we have to think about something. President Neumann, the medical chamber president, who died two years ago, introduced these arbitration bodies as the first step in 1985. That was a great thing in the European comparison. The next point was that we joined Ettl in 1989 – with Minister Ettl, apologise for the Lapsus! – have decided to include this in the Government Declaration. But I honestly tell you, it has always been difficult to get money from the Minister of Finance or anyone. It was just not possible. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And that's why I was glad that the city of Vienna, after a joint decision three years ago, created a hardness fund of 7 million schilling. [[Abg. Huber: Only one side will be burdened!]] I would now like to address Mrs Huber, who had a small dispute with me in committee. I'll tell you: The current solution – and I would like to say that again with emphasis – means: 10 S per patient and day, and that alone brings the six-fold sum for Vienna. Rieder has said in one of his last press conferences that the hardness fund manager, patient lawyer Pickl, has not even disbursed 7 million schillings. And we were so far away that this system would have to develop slowly. However, if, like the Greens, it is assumed that a debt-independent liability regime is the only solution, this would mean that we have to set up 600 to 800 million schilling, for example in the order of magnitude. And that in a climate where it is said that every schilling for health care needs to be found somewhere, when talking about the deficit, is this amount to be set up? Almost impossible! I remember the vertebra around the ambulance fee. That's 1 billion schilling. Please, someone's gonna come out and tell me where the money is to come from! That would be serious. It always says that's from the doctors or hospitals. Please, where are you going to take the hospitals?- Oh, my God! After Adam Ries, they end up turning it over to the premiums and to the costs. That is why I believe it is hypocritical to ask for something, but not at the same time to say where the money is to come from. I always look at the ex-finance minister, and he always kept it that way. He said: I can only spend what I have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] To make a sort of conciliatory conclusion: Finally, it cannot be our goal that we have only the sick and the injured. The decisive thing must be that the health care system is so good that as few mistakes as possible occur. And now I'm telling you: Measures have already been taken under SPÖ in recent years: the specialist examination. The degree training was massively forced by the doctor's board, in the current medical law firm, the obligation that has always existed is reinforced that doctors must prove that they are continuing training. It is crucial that every Austrian has the feeling of having good doctors before himself. We are good internationally; of course we can get even better. The medical reform, ladies and gentlemen Green Forest, is hopefully also a step towards better systems. Each of us can get sick tomorrow, get sick, and each of us doesn't want to be a victim of a mistake. And I tell you, there are three factors that provoke or cause mistakes: Firstly, lack of skills, lack of training, second: lack of experience, and thirdly, lack of time. And we must work on all three factors, and we can only do this work in consensus. A hardening solution or a non-indebted liability solution can only be the crutch if the disaster has already occurred. And in this sense we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20469	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20490	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My contribution will deal with hepatitis C victims. We know that from the late 1960s to the end of the 1980s numerous infections have occurred in plasma donors and recipients. It was the Minister for Social Democratic Health, Hostasch, who quickly helped victims out of accident insurance. However, the current government is constantly limited to declarations of intent. That is why we were, it was the opposition that demanded that by the end of the previous year – and since you were sparse, with an amendment, the deadline is now 30. June was extended – a fund will be set up and the foundations will also be created for liability insurance to make compensations, without the stakeholders having to go through the judicial authorities, with the Fund primarily to be fed by the causing companies and their insurance companies. – We have May now, and there is still no single schilling. It is terrifying, Mr State Secretary, how sloppy you are dealing with these victims. In autumn, you explained that there should be 500 victims, while the league spoke of 10,000. They have explained that there should be a three-stage procedure, have also explained in detail that there will be 100 cases that will not receive compensation, that there are 320 cases that will receive 5 000 S per month, and 80 cases that will receive 10 000 S per month. We now hear from the Committee that this is about 60 000 people affected and that payments are open. They're talking about 28 million schilling, that covers with these 500 people involved. The league, on the other hand, speaks of a need of 80 million schilling. In autumn, you promised the Minister of Health that you would have reached a promise from the pharmaceutical companies after tough negotiations. They themselves explained to us in the Committee in mid-April that there would be a discussion with the countries at the end of April because of their contribution payments and then discussions with pharmaceutical companies. I get the impression so slowly that you keep all of us, the opposition and the affected. The fact is that there is no result with the countries and no result with the pharmaceutical companies. It is simply scandalous, as you once again try to ask the taxpayers for the guilty conduct of the pharmaceutical companies to cash. If, in the context of the government's declaration of bankruptcy, MEPs in the Green Forest Committee have spoken, this can only be underlined. It is also possible to support your social speakers from the Liberal Group only if he is speaking openly of a withdrawal from the ministry today. What has been set up so far is an inability to act, which, as Mrs Silhavy has already said, leaves many questions open. In addition, experts explain to us that only about 10 percent of the infected know about their illness. And what is the government doing? Nothing! It makes no contribution to improving this situation. You obviously are waiting for the people concerned to leave, because no different is your announcement to understand that you are now postponeing the payout date to autumn, and perhaps it will take even longer. Mr State Secretary! I can ask you to finally accept the reasonable opposition requests. In the end, it is also a question of your own credibility. What you have so far shown, not only the health resort, but the government as a whole, that is not only a policy without a heart, but also the brain is missing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20544	The next speaker is Mrs Wachslander. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20566	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Politics without a heart is certainly still speaking, but actually I have to say: Finally, something is going on! Honestly stated: Something is happening throughout the health policy, for example, the patient charter. But there is also for the first time decided help for plasma-pheresis victims. I can say right away that there will be this fund not only for plasma donors, but of course also for recipients. The fact that something is going to happen in the end also suggests that this government, in particular Health Secretary Waneck, is aware of the problem, because at last a physician is at work again. In recent years – from the journalist Kreuzer to trade unions and people from other disciplines – what has been going on in the "playing field" of health, I have not felt that I have to say personally. With your Minister of Social Affairs, Hostasch, as well as her predecessors and predecessors, I am more aware of a lack of awareness of problem. In this connection, I come to a request from the 2nd Chamber. ==References====External links== Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under item 9, a compensation fund would have had to be created, with reference to the suggestion of the then Federal Minister for Justice. Your wife Hostasch had only the lapidar answer – I quote now literally –: "As... in cases of medical misdemeanors, the enforcement of claims for damages may be carried out in accordance with the general rules of liability to the perpetrators, a punctual compensation solution for a particular area appears to be problematic from the point of view of equality law." I think that your actions have been more problematic and that nothing has been done for those concerned. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] The fact is that in the 1970s and 1980s hundreds of voluntary plasma donors have been infected with the dangerous hepatitis C virus by immortal devices. The result was deaths, but of course also life-long, incurable disease and vulnerability caused by this disease to other diseases, a general weakness, no more chances of a corresponding professional exercise and the like. If you say that it was 30 years before it finally came to this fund, then I have to say that I think there have been quite large gaps in SPÖ policy and quite great misunderstandings. Mr Cap always accuses us of a policy without a heart. To that I would answer: We have enough hearts, but perhaps we also have more brains than some predecessors who have acted a little difficult. As regards Mrs Silhavy's question, which unfortunately is not here again, which seems to be not at all interested in the subject: Although it raises 37 questions, they appear to me partly answered and more than the usual SPÖ opposition polemics. Put to the point: What does this new fund mean? – With April 2001, the fund will be established legally, and the Fund’s services can therefore be expected as early as autumn 2001. The financial settlement will be through an economic fidelity firm, namely those who have managed the HIV support fund for the past ten years, and 15 million schillings will be available in the 2001 and 2002 budgets. This is certainly a source of hope for all those who have and are affected by this suffering. On the other hand, however, I must say honestly: Those who have this problem have, of course, been victims of this infection, but at the same time they have also been victims of a reckless policy as it has operated the SPÖ in the health sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20623	The next speaker is Mrs Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20644	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to return to the very tasteless comment made by Mr Hartinger towards Mr Haidlmayr. I don't want this uncommented. She may, with her wishes, send a letter to the Christian child, Mrs. Hartinger said. – I think that reveals your attitude toward people who have been affected in some way by a fate, and that is self-evident. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Rasinger! It is quite simple to say that the benefits of the indebtedness-independent medical liability presented by Dr. Grünewald have from a legal and medical point of view. - That's it. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: First of all, I demanded this together with Ettl!]] It is sometimes the question of whether you are satisfied with a first step or whether you are trying a more complex solution. Sometimes it is wiser to take a small step and then leave to follow, sometimes it would be better to find a cheaper solution from the beginning. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The countries were not even ready for an overall solution! Vienna was there! This is the difference between reality and utopia!]] These are obviously the difficulties and burden of the government. You need to know them. They are also invited to solve them. And if all of this always reduces to the question: Where is the money to come from, who pays it and who can be involved with it?, then I say... [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: They now have six times more money at their disposal!]] Mr Rasinger! Then I'll tell you: Money's here! It is paid by the countries, insurance contracts have been concluded for hospitals and doctors have private insurance. So that means there's a lot of money going on in this area. And the imagination, I must say, wasn't really big, but I wouldn't have come to the idea of asking those affected, namely the patients, to check out. There is no thought at all about who is still a causer, who is still there and who can be made responsible. They have not at all considered involving the pharmaceutical companies, the producers of medical and technical equipment, and also asking them to check out. This already draws like a red thread through the last meeting of the Health Committee. In any case – and this is what we so particularly criticize – the affected will become the sick, the patients or taxpayers will be asked to cash out, and the causing economy, the industry that makes billions of profits – you know that very well – will not be involved at all. And this applies to all areas: This applies to the hepatitis C sacrifice fund, and this also applies to this indebted-in patient liability or medical liability. Mr Grünewald presented this very plastically in his example with the railway customer. I have already asked myself – and I have asked you to do so in committee – Mr State Secretary: Perhaps now a pedestrian has to pay for it, and to whom, and how, and in what funds? – After all, he could also be on the road, on the walkway or wherever an accident happens, be it that someone approaches him or that a roof tile falls on his head. You know exactly how the regulations have been made here, and I think we are still on the way to a two-class society, which we do not want, especially in the health field. That is why I appeal to you, Mr State Secretary, and I also appeal to you, Mr Rasinger, and to all those responsible: Let us jointly receive our good health system, as the health report has indicated.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20734	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20764	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Three opposition requests are available today, and three requests were rejected by the government parties in the committee, not because they were very, very bad in content, but because the government worked faster than the opposition could make the requests. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The indebted-independent medical liability was practically done with the indebted-independent patient compensation. You can put that aside. The two applications for hepatitis C victims – one of Pittermann's now councillors and the other of Green Forest's colleagues – are also completed. The fund is already installed, I am very happy about this speed of our federal government. "Speed kills" in that case not, but "Speed wins"! I congratulate you, everything is done, we can complete!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20805	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20830	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are now discussing the compensation for the victims concerned, this cannot be done with it. Health care and health promotion must be more implemented. Mr State Secretary! However, the 2000 health report, which should not be discussed in the House, is proof of the importance of the measures taken. [[Abg. Steibl: He has been discussed in the Committee!]] Whether you want to hear it or not, ladies and gentlemen: In 1998, the Health Promotion Act was adopted, and 100 million schilling were made available in addition to health care. This money is used for future-oriented developments and is managed by the Healthy Austria Fund. However, it is also possible to submit and implement projects and programmes for people through these funds. In 1999, 130 programmes were implemented. Target groups focused on "people at the workplace" and "woman in special situations", for example, on "psychic stress at work", "stress in the profession", "health-friendly career in the care profession", "pesticide prevention for young people", and so on. These measures, Mr State Secretary, have, of course, already had a positive impact on the working people. It has also been true that more preventive medicine creates better quality of life. Even during this period, EU support has been used to install a network for health promotion in the company to assist employers in measures to promote health, namely the Austrian contact point of the European Network for Corporate Health Promotion. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted, however, that the performance at the workplace is constantly increasing. An international study also shows that mental stress, such as time pressure and stress, comes to physical stress. If it is to be read in "NEWS" today that the Federal Chancellor became a provocateur by the Swiss Chancellor, this applies precisely to the announcement made by the Federal Chancellor on the day of work, when he thought that if the people were 85 years old on average, they could also work up to 65 years. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: That's wrong! He didn't say that! He talked about pensions, Mrs. Colleague!]] This announcement of the Chancellor to work up to 65 without If and But, is not only cynical and heartless, but also irresponsible, especially to those who have to deal with health problems through their decades of hard work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Also addressed to you, colleague Steibl! [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, please!]] You should look at the activities that a construction worker, a shift worker and a heavy worker has to do every day. [[Abg. Steibl: It has not been said that everyone should work up to 65!]] First, accompanying measures must be put in place throughout the working life so that employees can also have the opportunity to stay at work and then go to retirement for some health – and not because of illness. [[Abg. Steibl: We must also stick to the Constitution!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Create and set the conditions in the health field They're going where we've been! This is to be found in the health report. Health care and health promotion must be a priority for workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20935	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please. [[The honourable Member is surprised by the statement of words and tries to get to the speaker's desk as quickly as possible.]] – Sportiness is not a shame, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20969	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I didn't expect to get in there right now. On my list it was different – but I'm there.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20984	Excuse me! I'm seeing it right now. Either it was my fault or it has been changed: In fact, it would have been planned by Mrs Plank. I'm sorry, probably it was my fault. If it contributes to your sportiness, it's still a pleasure to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e20999	High house! Health policy has a lot to do with safety, competence, trust and reliability. Families of the sick need the safety of their neighbors, patients and patients who need confidence in the doctors and in the care staff. The doctors are expected to have competence, and in addition the reliability of those working in health professions is needed. This interplay of forces works well, nevertheless, I think, can, can, and must give some suggestions for improvement so that health policy can not only be implemented well, but even better for all those involved. The application concerning the introduction of a non-indebted medical liability is thus a proposal within the meaning of the patients. A proposal for the group of people working in health professions was, for example, the request made by Mr Pittermann, who called for further reforms in these professions. If one reads in the health report, many things have already been reformed, but the question is: Why shouldn't it get any better? Why, ladies and gentlemen, has it become worse and worse since you are in government? Why is it prevented? And not only that, ladies and gentlemen, it is towed, worn away, missed, forgotten, hidden, twisted, neglected, delayed and worsened. All these negative verbs mark your policy. That's sad. And all this against sick and healthy people, for naked, cold numbers. Don't you have a bad conscience? The positive health report should not come to plenary so that the public and therefore the Austrian population do not know that in a short time, in just 15 months, you have broken down, which has been continuously built up in the health sector for decades. I am convinced that you also wanted to prevent this report from coming to the plenary and being discussed here for a good second reason. On page 14 dare You have a view of your health policy by reading from the Government Declaration of 9. Cite February 2000 under the heading "Rerule" as follows: "We will ensure that there is equal access for all citizens to all medical services." I wonder if this is worth the paper on which it is written if you have made an excellent health system sick and sicker in just 15 months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For you, not all sick people are the same, ladies and gentlemen. Apart from the deep grip in the wallets, you have taken away something that you can never return to people, namely the safety and confidence in Austrian health care. But even those who work in health care don't believe your confessions, which have come to pure phrases, for a long time. If I read about that: I would remind you, Secretary of State Waneck, that by the end of December 2000, you wanted to make Pittermann's request on the comprehensive reform of health professions. It does not count both, neither acts nor words, only and only the rejection at the February plenary session have you approved this request by voting against it. You will also do so with the three requests that have been made today. Health policy is not at your heart. You don't want to improve anything, you want to keep making mistakes, and the people in this country will pick you up. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21072	Now comes Mrs Mag. Plank to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21149	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. In particular, Dr. Pumberger: If you don't praise the speed of this government too much, think of your chao action: Pension reform, ambulance fees, accident pension tax. Be careful with the praise for speed! We note: "Speed kills" is still announced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me begin by quoting from the health report 2000, which you did not want to discuss, neither in the Committee nor here in the House, but which shows for a large part what responsible health policy has been made under Minister Hostash. Let me say once again that there is an insight into the state of the government groups: They do not want this discussion because their failure to do so would be all the more obvious on the table. According to OECD data, Austria's health expenditure was 8.2 percent in 1998. We are in the middle of this and not, as you always claim, exorbitantly high. The WHO, on the other hand, confirms us a very good note regarding the performance of the – unfortunately former – health policy. We're on the 9th. Place of 191 WHO countries. I believe that this report speaks a clear language, and that is why you do not want to hear this in this House. All the more amazing for me was the discussion in the Health Committee, where, in particular, the government's parties were heavily polemised, especially against patient interests. I quote: Hospitals: With less and less beds the outing is found. From 80,000 beds a decrease to 74 000 beds within six years. However, Dr. Pumberger said in the committee that the number of stationary admissions was rising. Yes, that is true, Dr. Pumberger, but you have misinterpreted the statistics, because you know very well that the zero-day people are there too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] That's how your health policy looks that you're more interested. You know why the stationary recording is rising, but you also know that the average laden duration has fallen by one fifth. You probably know that, too, you just avoided talking about it. This is in line with the quotations made by Dr. Rasinger and you, Dr. Pumberger, repeated in committee: The Austrians would be world champions in the hospital lie. This is your access to the patients, to the sick. The health report states that a success in cost reduction has been achieved because the costs have fallen from 9 percent in 1994 to 2 and 3 percent in 1997 and 1998. You do not want to hear these figures because your new health policy, your reform on de-olidarisation and on performance limitation. I assume that you too know the letters of the medical chamber president Pjeta, who says that the funding of health care should be solidarity. Restriction of benefits for reasons other than medical reasons is not a basis for a full health system, patient rights are fundamental rights. Mr State Secretary! Patient rights are fundamental rights! I remember with regret the discussion on Dr. Grünewald's request, in which you said that anyone who thinks that a "art mistake" has happened to him – under quotation marks – can go to the doctor and can tell the doctor. Mr State Secretary! This is beyond the problem, because the problem is that a patient should, of course, come to his right without civil proceedings. This claim, which is so easy to understand, is simply advocating with these cynical remarks and with this behavior. They refuse health policy, which must be of course: Patients' rights are fundamental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21218	Next, Mr. State Secretary, Dr. Waneck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21240	Mr President. High house! First of all, I have to keep in mind – I did it in the Health Committee – that I am called "cynical". – One can call me with many titles, but certainly not as cynical. As a doctor, I have made available to the patient all my life. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can't believe you're making interpretations of my statements either. At the time, I said nothing but that if a patient is harmed by a doctor directly in the ordination, it is easier for him to come to his right because he has entered into a treatment contract with this individual and can therefore be made known to the doctor in question. This makes it easier for him to come to his right than if he is in the hospital to face an anonymous institution that naturally blocks from experience. This is also the reason why we have created the indebted and independent patient compensation. Here again, I refer to: It is about quality of implementation. At the last legal day in November of last year, when I went to the jurists and had to be quite present that accusations were made to me in some legal sense, I was not accused of any accusations. On the contrary: It was said that for 30 years it was disputed, in eight months it was now realized. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can also say that one of the most prominent representatives of the opposition, Professor Pickl, was with leadership. We have prepared the Implementing Rules Thank God for his lifetime, and I can tell you that last week the Health Councils conference accepted these Implementing Rules. At the same time, we have offered to set up a clearing and coordination body at the federal government in order to create the same conditions throughout Austria. That too, I think, is a sign of quality of results. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You have made a request regarding the legal implementation of measures for the medical professions. Here, too, I can tell you: The Medical Law is soon available in the House for decision-making, the Sanitary Aid Act is practically in place – it is only due to the consultation of two federal states, including Vienna – that the Heilmassurgesetz is practically complete, and the MTD and MTF laws are passed through once again with the groups concerned in order to really deal with those things that are necessary so that there is clarity in the professional practice as well. In particular, the success of the reform is important, as many of these laws have remained unchanged since 1961 and have therefore become obsolete and have long since been reformed and not even now. You shouldn't have waited so long for this government to take control of the matter. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Bravo, reform government!]] I admit that the Austrian population, especially patients, expects safety, competence, trust and reliability. However, they also expect expertise and expertise, and this is not given if one refers to the darkness of possible hepatitis C infected in the whole of Austria and is similar to that group that should now be compensated by the hepatitis C fund. The dark rate for infections, as is also the case with hepatitis A and hepatitis B, is 60 000 to 100 000, the number of people affected is 50 000. I can tell you that, on the one hand, the government of Vienna decided on 27 June. On 8 March the Fund was granted and legally granted by the Fund. Mr. Dr. Aigner of the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations has been appointed a fund curator and now the fund statutes have to be developed, so that the start of a payout can be expected this year. I don't understand why five years had to be discussed in the past. Here, too, we realized this within a year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The essential thing is – that will be understood by people in Austria –: It's not about putting things in front of you, but you have to solve them. If small mistakes happen, you can correct them at any time, because there is nothing good except you do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21307	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21329	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot of self- praise now, but unfortunately the measures you take are, in part, only half a thing, in part, they even go in the wrong direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Previously, we have agreed on an agreement to ensure patient rights with the country of Burgenland. These are important explanations, but when it becomes concrete – and especially with regard to specific rights – it turns out that the sick, the victims themselves have to bear the burdens, but those who are guilty of them are not held responsible. I am therefore not surprised that the health report should be dealt with briefly in the Committee, excluding the public. There's been an agreement in the presidency you passed over. This is, of course, contrary to the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, and this also contradicts the right of the people to information. But as I have said, I am not surprised, because if you look at this report, you can see that in many areas a good policy has been adopted. An example that shows clearly: drug policy. While the report is very positive, with your policy you stop focusing on the proven model of preventing treatment, helping instead of punishment. They have achieved by means of the novel to the Addiction Act and the regulation that young people are criminalised. They're starting from the proven way, and that's a really negative development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in Vienna, which you always criticize, you can see how well the primary prevention works. The road social work leads to the scene being manageable and controlled that a care relationship and also a trust relationship between the addicts and the offices of the city of Vienna and the medical institutions have developed. The substitution treatment in Vienna is also exemplary. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] But the measures you have taken lately will bring about a change. They are endangering the relationship of trust by these measures, and this is a very worrying way. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words to deal with the application for damages which are independent of liability. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Debt independent!]] I also have to say that you are taking a step, but I wonder: Who pays for it? – This is always the problem with the measures you are taking. They demand that the victims themselves bear the costs, and that is the wrong way. If this is a debt-independent compensation, then it is a very positive thing, a much more positive one than if it were to be used for the purposes of criminal law. This also creates much more confidence, and it brings more to the patients. We know how difficult it is to get to his right in a proper procedure, so I welcome every measure. But what I don't understand is why the patients have to pay the costs again. That is not the right way, and this is unfortunately typical of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21390	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 557 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 558 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I notice the majority. That is what the report has been adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Health Committee to take note of its report 559 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. . I note once again the majority and therefore the adoption of the report. 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21466	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Hannes Bauer has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21490	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we all agree on the importance of nature conservation as a whole and how important it is to discuss the question of 'Natura 2000', which is closely linked to it. As one who has experienced this in close proximity – although I was not directly affected by the nomination yet, but then by the implementation – I have seen how important it is to overcome fundamentalist approaches. This certainly includes the question of the opposites, which are not in general, but are always only partially perceived, for example in the form that the economy or agriculture has fears of nature conservation. In reality, we all know that we need this nature conservation. If I speak of this overcoming of mutual fears, then because I believe that everyone somehow feels the obligation to do more for nature conservation and to build it up in a reasonable symbiosis. Secondly, Since Austria's accession to the EU in 1995, we have adopted an obligation to implement certain rights of the European Union, such as the 1979 Birds Directive or the 1992 FFH Directive. I believe that the treatment of this matter is also linked to a certain difficulty for the Federal Minister, because, of course, the countries as nature conservation workers have primarily to implement these national rights, but this does not always do as it would be expected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In addition, since 'Natura 2000' has been carried out without any relevant guidelines, it is true that we have found very different reports about it. For example, countries such as Lower Austria, with a report of around 32 percent of the land's surface area, were opposed to countries with a reporting of 1 to 3 percent, which is ultimately not the point of the matter. In total, about 10 to 15 percent is reported. Some countries have reported very carefully. If there is no coordination, then this is actually a difficulty for the countries, because they have to take something back, which is useful, for example, the country of Lower Austria, which has fallen from around 32 to 17 percent. I do not now address the alpine areas; the continental areas are still being reviewed. This means that a realistic scale without loss of quality is guaranteed to nature conservation. It is also important that no loss of quality should occur here. Since other countries are only reluctant to go in the other direction, this means that Austria is relatively sparse in total. If I consider that some 30,000 farms can be described as affected, which in fact do not know exactly what this question means, this is both a lack of information and, I believe, a question of very different access. Federal Minister! I would like to address you specifically because 'Natura 2000' was treated in November of the previous year, but until today this coordination of countries has not taken place. However, I believe that various infringement procedures, which are now threatening Austria, require a federal strategy which I do not recognise. Now, in the event of non-compliance, or if no notification is made, the European Union is trying to establish a certain link with certain measures, whether it threatens to suspend funding or not to make certain structures of resources available. This would be particularly painful for the Eastern and the border regions. Federal Minister! I therefore believe once again that it is necessary – and I say this as a former national representative – to anchor nature conservation as a federal responsibility. Although the basic competence should remain with the countries, this does not mean that the federal government should not fulfil its general government and, above all, its international role. For me, this means that we really have to think about seeing nothing but a post-letter function at the liaison point of the countries, but not a shaping function. Thus, I believe that a federal law on the protection and care of nature and landscape would be necessary in order to establish the appropriate cross-border minimum standards and thus ultimately to be able to assume the overall responsibility towards an international community. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, we should continue the talks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21544	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21566	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal of the Glawischnig Member of Parliament of December 1999 aimed to ensure that some of the competences in the field of nature conservation migrate from the countries to the Federation. For example, a federal competence should be created within the framework of 'Natura 2000'. According to the second point of this request, the Federal Government should also finance the costs of the "Nature 2000" measures. Mrs Glawischnig! You know that nature conservation in Austria is a matter of country, and I think that is also true, because nature conservation is, for good reason, a typical regional competence, and it should remain essentially that. This was one of the main reasons why Mr Glavischnig's request in the Committee did not find and was rejected in December of last year. It is true that the Committee then submitted a request from the government parties to which the country competences will not be cut, but which also deals with the cost question for 'Natura 2000'. Another very important point of this proposal, which I see very positively, is that in the future the State Nature Conservation Authorities should also be represented in the so-called ÖPUL Advisory Council. This is living federalism and not circumcision of federalism! When you talk about "Natura 2000", you also have to say something about Lower Austria. In particular, I would like to make a comment on my previous speaker, MEP Bauer, who meant that he had some fundamentalist approaches in connection with the implementation of 'Natura 2000' in Lower Austria. Mr Bauer! I don't see it like that. For me and for us, however, it is completely incomprehensible why Lower Austria has reported a third, almost 33 percent of the land area as a protected area to Brussels. In comparison, Upper Austria reported a total of 3 percent. In this context, we have already seen in Lower Austria the large funding full horn and for this reason the report to Brussels has been so exaggerated! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer.]] However, "Natura 2000" measures mean, of course, massive management disadvantages and costs for our farmers and traders. That must be clear, too! Therefore, in Lower Austria, this mistake should be corrected as quickly as possible, so that our farmers and traders are not unduly damaged and burdened. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nature conservation is primarily intended to remain a matter of country. We will therefore not vote in favour of the request made by Members, but rather in favour of the request made by the government groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21623	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21644	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Weinmeier! I am now very surprised that you will not agree to my request. Nevertheless, I would like to describe the problem once again, because we are looking at a very expensive matter in this context. – I don’t know if You have followed this: Last July, there was almost a milestone in European legal history, because for the first time a Member State was sentenced to a fine for non-implementation of EU law. Nor was it surprising for observers that environmental legislation was: Greece has been sentenced to 20 000 ye a day, and that is relatively much money. 280 000 S per day totals 100 million schilling, high to one year. I have nothing against the fact that the federal states have the nature conservation competence. On the contrary: This can make sense from many points of view! At the moment, however, we have a massive problem. There are more than 20 procedures pending, there are horizontal complaints against saying and writing 87 Austrian legal bodies regarding the Flora-Fauna-Habitat Directive and 64 concerning the Bird Protection Directive. We have a very big problem here, and as long as the federal states continue to run this course and simply fail to establish an EU-conform state, it is certainly appropriate to think about it and discuss whether to anchor a principle legislation on nature conservation at the federal level and leave the countries implementing laws. As I said, There is nothing wrong with filling out competences and actually fulfilling the obligations of international and EU law. However, if you are now turning to such a "killer" procedure before the European Court of Justice with very expensive consequences, I also think there must be a discussion about what is really a sensible regime. We are now discussing a task reform commission, and there are major studies on it; the answer from your side, what you are doing with the federal states in these pending procedures, is still pending. Not only are there legal instruments not implemented, but there are permanent disputes about projects, and this is evidence that nature conservation, especially in the countries, does not have the importance it should have. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact that we are in conflict with the European Union every time because of stupid golf courses, road projects or because of some smaller horse parks like the Welscher holding, is really a sign of poverty for the importance of nature conservation policy in the federal states! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The feature of the whole thing is that, not the federal states are obliged to make payments if a conviction is to be made, but the Federation, the Republic of Austria! That is why I would ask you once again to try to find a serious answer to this problem that we are referring to, and not just to say that it is national competence and should remain that way for all eternity. Secondly, The whole "Natura 2000" problem is a typical example of conflicting interests, for which one has to find a balance. I believe that the European Union's action, the lack of functioning and the lack of implementation are a very good and efficient solution. As has been done in the past, it has been necessary to force all Member States across Europe to implement directives that are sometimes 25 years old, which is simply no longer possible in the medium term! In the field of nature conservation, we are faced with issues that go beyond a national assessment. If you think that every 20 minutes a wild species of animals and plants disappears forever from this planet, I think that this is not such an inseparable matter that you can move to the long bank and say that nature conservation must never go at the expense of our economy and our agriculture. In this respect, we have great responsibility for future generations, especially with regard to our alpine regions with their incredible wealth as well as our pannonian climate zones. I therefore believe that a serious implementation of nature conservation law is not a matter of balance of interest. Rather, there is only one priority in this context to address these major challenges adequately: Nature conservation must be absolutely a priority in the next few years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21711	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21732	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Glavischnig, I do not think that it is very effective if you go to the Polish level, especially in the field of nature conservation, not the subject matter. It is simply not a matter of making complaints about Austria the step of condemning Greece. That can't be the way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It needs an objective discussion and no hysteria. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Two procedures are under way before the ECJ!]] Yes! But there are no convictions! An accusation does not mean condemnation for a long time, and we need an objective discussion! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since Austria's accession to the European Union on 1 January, Austria has been a member of the European Union. Austria also has an obligation to implement EU nature conservation directives in January 1995. The "Natura 2000" is based on the Flora-Fauna-Habitat Directive and the Birds Directive. Both are to be implemented nationally in EU Member States by 2004 by identifying the main areas as special protected areas. These areas then form the network "Natura 2000". By now, Austria has called no fewer than 160 areas – 16 percent of the state territory – and is one of the most ambitious countries in the EU. According to the Austrian Federal Constitution, all matters of nature conservation lie in legislation and execution in the competence of the federal states: Due to the federal construction of Austria and the various ecological structures of Austria, I consider this current situation of competence to be highly justified. The fact that the waves in some rural areas with regard to the Flora fauna habitats Directive and the Birds Directive have gone high is that in the past it has not been specifically stated how the undetermined terms "worship ban" and "tolerance testing" can actually be understood. Furthermore, it should be noted that in the past decisions in the area of nature conservation have been made by policy-makers at the green table and that there has only been a dialogue and discussion on the basis of massive political pressure from the parties concerned, which are one of the most important prerequisites for resolving the problem. Especially from this point of view, it is absolutely not useful to seek solutions at the federal level. Rather, it must be recognized that the nature spaces differ to a large extent only individually with those concerned can be assessed. Regional dialogue platforms are therefore the only answer! Modern nature conservation requires a departure from the purely regulatory prohibition of nature protection. A meaningful answer to this is to strengthen the principle of cooperation. Nature conservation will only be successful in the future if the affected rural population is involved from the outset. Austria has already demonstrated in recent years, with its ÖPUL programmes, which are considered to be exemplary throughout Europe, that maintaining our natural rural areas is a top priority. It must be mentioned in particular that Austria has 30 natural parks, which account for over 3 percent of the state territory. With regard to national protection of nature, I would point out that both the programme for rural development and the ÖPUL environmental programme are being opened for nature conservation, and we are concerned that, on the basis of national funding, funds are made available by the European Union as co-financing and that we can use them to the fullest extent. In summary and in conclusion, it must be noted that nature conservation is very important for all, but it can only be implemented in accordance with the nature and the people concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21776	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21797	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Nature conservation is a matter of the countries in Austria. This has been mentioned several times today. There are nine different national laws and no uniform Federal Nature Conservation Act. The Federal Government is anxious to introduce a uniform federal solution or regulation; the same applies to animal welfare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The EU has set itself the goal of setting up a pan-European network of the most important conservation areas in Europe in order to protect species of animals and plants in the long term. "Natura 2000" means this program, with which flora, fauna and protected habitats are to be preserved. A network of protected areas across Europe is to be established, but no new nature reserves are to be created in which any human activity is prohibited. Rather, in the designated protected areas, it might also be necessary to maintain or even promote certain human activities. The objective of harmonious co-existence between the economy and nature conservation is particularly to be welcomed. There should be a balance of interests between the economy and nature conservation, which I personally consider to be very useful, because first of all a thriving economy is only possible on an intact ecological basis in the long term and second, investment in environmental and nature protection in the event of economic prosperity is easier to finance. In this context, the federal states are addressed, because nature conservation is, as already mentioned, a matter of land, and I am therefore already on the subject that is very dear to me. – Anyone who travels daily with us in Burgenland on the B 50, on the federal road between Neusiedl am See and Eisenstadt, knows the horror scenario that awaits him there: Every day 13 000 vehicles pass through the range of shooters on the mountain, and the truck share is 9 percent. This is not transit trucks, it is home-made traffic. These vehicles donate through narrow local roads to Eisenstadt to connect the motorway to Wiener Neustadt and Graz. In this respect, something has to happen quickly, because first and foremost, we have social democrats at the heart of man! [[Abg. Look at this!]] That's always been the case! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, however, there seems to be a solution in view. Yesterday, a route variant was developed with the involvement of all the communities concerned, including those who are not directly on the federal road, but who are hotterly touched by it. It was a constructive conversation, and as a result one is confident that there will be a solution. A nine-point list was drawn up and in this respect agreed with the local leaders. And public transport – railway and bus – is also to be made more attractive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The accompanying routes for agricultural transport must also be extended and expanded. At present, six types of routes are on the table, taking into account the results of the "Transport and Sensitive Areas" study. We in the Burgenland are confident that, after a decision by the state government of Burgenland and a popular survey taking place in autumn, it will have to come to a solution, because something really has to happen there. Here too, it will be demonstrated that people's needs and environmental protection must be reconciled. It reminds me that 20 years ago, when the A4 was built the East motorway, the track had to be fought hard and fought hard. Today you can no longer imagine yourself without getting out of this East motorway! However, environmental protection in the form of green bridges and much more has also been taken into account in the construction of this road. We will have to do this and we will also be able to manage the B 50, so we will also take into account the requirements of "Natura 2000". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21853	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21874	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freeman and the entire Federal Government are committed to comprehensive nature conservation: Numerous national parks, nature parks and intact natural and cultural landscapes are proof of this. The OPUL programme and the rural development programme implement numerous initiatives to protect nature. The aim of this programme is to adapt to the principle of sustainability. It is about finding ways that are ecologically meaningful, socially acceptable and economically viable. Such developments are permanent and successful only if they are borne by all parties involved and jointly recognised as objectives. Ladies and gentlemen! It can and must not be, however, that decisions will be taken across the minds of people, bringing about significant restrictions on use and loss of value. By such an approach, nature conservation is not a good service! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's it!]] To the address of SPÖ and Greens: Exaggeration You're not the so-called good, because then you'll reach the opposite! I can give you an example: I am the operator of the first wind farm in Austria. Together with Eberschwang, we have tried to create the foundations for this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Do you know which department was the only one against it? – The Nature Conservation Department was against it! It was about "enhanced landscape consumption", it was said, and I didn't understand that. You see what's going on here. A field of tension needs to be dissolved, and that is only common. It is therefore necessary to seek ways of making all the participants a winner and adapting them nationally and regionally. In my opinion, a very successful project is the so-called contract nature protection. Article 16 of the EU Regulation opens up appropriate opportunities to preserve intact natural areas with sustainable management and sound management. Austria is a pioneer in many areas of nature conservation in Europe. In addition to the many measures already mentioned, we also acknowledge the implementation of the 'Natura 2000' project. In principle, this matter falls within the competence of the countries. However, we are prepared to review the existing Austrian rural development programme, in particular the ÖPUL programme, for the possibility of financing measures. The OPUL Evaluation Advisory Board will deal with this. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that, in order to help achieve sustainable and sustainable development, we need to set up a Council for Sustainability in Austria, which not only documents and informs, but also deals with all relevant future issues across the ministries and develops a sustainability strategy for Austria, recognizes opportunities and risks of developments, evaluates policy decisions and formulates visions for a sustainable development of Austria and sustainable lifestyles of the Austrian population in the sense of this sustainability. It is about permanently securing the quality of life of people. Nature, man and technology should not be in contrast. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21924	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21945	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For years, this project has been discussed "Natura 2000". So far, I would like to say, however, that we are on the spot. I believe that the idea behind it is excellent and good and would also make sense for Austria. However, when implementing this project, it looks a little gloomy. [[Abg. Auer: Diletantic has been done!]] And there you can't save with criticism either, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleague Auer! No environmental minister has been able to implement these two important EU directives since 1995 – this criticism has been allowed to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Almost seven years have passed, and nothing or very little has happened. Austria is sparse – this has already been noted several times today – and we are also criticised by the EU for it. The Commission is even considering turning the money to the Structural Funds, where the funds are to flow. Of course, this embarrassing situation is due not only to one but to several causes. One of these causes has already been addressed today, namely the different national legislation. We have nine different nature conservation laws and nine different land hunting laws. In such a situation one can never come to a green branch, because the interests of the individual countries that participate are simply too different. For example, if you look at the nominations of the individual federal states, you can see a little value: What is the importance of nature conservation in a federal country? – I know that at 32 percent, Lower Austria may have shot a little bit above the target. Now it's 17 percent. That it is only 3.4 percent in Upper Austria, however, is, honestly, dear Jacob Auer, but a bit embarrassing! If you know Upper Austria with its world heritage and its beauty, then you have to say in view of the 3 percent that the economy seems to have exerted itself massively, and for this I am, honestly, already a bit ashamed of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, there are also examples on which I think we can look at something. That would be a constructive contribution. I think about Switzerland or Germany. These countries have two things in common: They have a Nature Conservation Act, which is in federal competence, and they have sufficient financial resources at their disposal. – These are prerequisites, ladies and gentlemen, which we do not have in Austria, and that is a pity! Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to say: We or you don't need to reinvent the wheel. Look They're going over to the neighbors, they're gonna show us how they're doing anyway! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e21999	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22020	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wimmer, since you meant that it was embarrassing for Upper Austria, that you had reported only 3 and a little percent and that this was not a good witness, I would like to say: You know exactly who in Upper Austria was or was a nature conservation officer! Ladies and gentlemen! I expressly say: There's one from earlier times! Ladies and gentlemen! I recognise nature conservation, but the way in which it was chosen in some federal states – including under your nature conservation authority, ladies and gentlemen – is to be rejected! Nature conservation can only take place in a joint way between the stakeholders and the conservationists. A dialogue procedure would be desirable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, Not the percentages of a federal country are crucial. Instead, protected areas of national or international importance are crucial, whether they are covered by the Flora-Fauna-Habitat Directive or the Birds Directive. I am clear, ladies and gentlemen: If nature conservation is to have a chance – and I think it should have – it does not follow the neighboring expropriation method! I would like to make that clear again, ladies and gentlemen. [[It is a pleasure to the ÖVP and to representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] It is remarkable when certain nature conservation sites report to Brussels, but do not know what effects, loads and bans there are and what the individual, the homeowner, the landowner or the trader can still do, and may or may have what development opportunities a single municipality has, which is blessed with 40 percent of the municipal area by a nature conservation representative! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] You will still experience the day, Mrs Prammer, where you have to explain to my community 230 single-family homeowners why you have reported this area as obviously of national importance! There are also your party friends. You can read the resolutions, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, the question should also be asked: What does the individual owner or community receive for a compensation if it has to bear the burden in the sense of all? And it is also remarkable if, in connection with nature conservation, you suddenly discover a protected area where an existing gravel pit is operated with enormous daily performances. This is now suddenly a protected area! After I congratulate! But then I ask: What is the nature protection that always means that you can't change anything? – I mean, nature conservation cannot be statically stuck, but must develop dynamically, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This must be done with conviction and joint effort so that it can also be carried out with the heart, so to speak, but this must not be done with East Block methods, because nature conservation has no future, Mrs Prammer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22088	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22109	Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that we have an obligation in the field of nature conservation. From my point of view, who has competence in Austria is not relevant, but the relevance is probably that there is a general government obligation to do so. But it is wise that in Austria we have regulated the nature conservation legislation at the federal level. The current discussion is such that in each federal state, there are different demands and requirements in each region, which must also be observed and taken into account differently. It honors me, though, what confidence you have in federal environmental policy and that you want to "commit" everything. But I don't think that's good. I say quite frankly to you, this is damaging to the idea of nature conservation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, in my opinion, the experience of the last five years of the 'Natura 2000' has made it clear that there is ultimately a good solution wherever people are being talked to. But wherever anyone passes, people put up the hair, bristles, and stings, and this creates a problem that no one brings on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, I am therefore clearly on the principle of the protection of nature of the Treaty, which must be implemented at the level of the federal states. But the covenant will not be taken out of its commitment, ladies and gentlemen. He has not done this and will not do it in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, our National Park Commitment is exemplary. Finally, we are also required in the area of 'Natura 2000' in the context of coordination tasks. I think that, for example, when implementing the management plans, we will carry out our coordination function. We have acted where we have the opportunity, for example, with the environmental federal programme. Mrs Glavischnig! It is true that we have infringement proceedings under a number of national laws – hunting law, forest law and also nature conservation law. That is why the Federal Government is in close contact with the countries and the European Union so that we can achieve a reasonable result, which on the one hand corresponds to the EU obligations – to which the federal states, of course, have committed themselves – and on the other, to what has been said here by all, that we find a 'nature 2000' solution at all levels that is carried by people, the regions and the communities. Only this will really be successful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22170	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Prammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22195	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament Here, Auer has found something wrong, namely that in Upper Austria, the country's conservation representatives in relation to "Natura 2000" had expropriated areas. I'm just saying this wasn't the case. In fact, it was always very, very difficult to identify the areas at all. Mr Auer! You know the context in which that area was created that you have in mind here. This happened in connection with Lambach. If we had done this the way you have proposed it here, we would not have a single designated "Natura 2000" area until today. [[Abg. Auer: This is not a correction!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22230	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 397 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 397 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – I note that this is once again the majority and thus adopted. (E 83.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund comrades concerning the prohibition of the distance transport of live animals (571 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22292	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Perfuss. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22319	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that a consensus could be reached between all the parties here in Parliament on the transport of remote animals. This is another step to finally stop the subsidized animal torture of large-scale live animal transports. Of course, the motion for a resolution that we are adopting today is a compromise. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] The original request was much wider, and of course we would have fully supported it. But in view of the fact that this is now a step towards a common approach in the field of animal welfare, of course we are happy to take this path of compromise. Federal Minister! As important as it is to uniformize the carting of animals across Europe or at least enforce improvements, and as important as it is to stop the financial incentives to promote the transport of live animals – because this is actually the Corpus Delicti, we know – but it is also important to finally regulate animal welfare in Austria uniformly, through a Federal Animal Protection Act. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign again]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The different country regulations are neither timely nor meaningful, we now know. It is, of course, easier – this is also a strategy of the ÖVP – always to say what the EU should or must do when it is opportune to argue that one is against improvements in one's own country – and especially in the field of agriculture and in the field of animal welfare – than to ensure order in one's own country and finally no longer block a federal system of animal welfare. In fact, the laws of the country are not in order. For years you, Federal Minister, and the ÖVP, wipe this problem out of the table and ignore any effort on our part to achieve an improvement for Austrian animals. You are not very credible, Minister of State, if They work as a lawyer for improvements in EU animal transport, but at the same time prevent the uniform animal welfare regime in Austria. A high standard in Austria also has a signal effect in the EU. I should like to remind you that the former Minister of Transport has imposed a high standard on climate with the strict Austrian animal transport law at the time of the EU. Austria may well have been able to send a quality signal that the EU did not take full account of, but that has contributed significantly to the improvement of animal transport conditions. At that time, Austria was taken very seriously in the EU. Minister of State, with all due respect: You and your colleagues must first prove that your word is heard in the EU. We will see what will eventually become of our four-party request. For the Federal Animal Protection Act, I see light at the end of the tunnel – when I am optimistic. And I'm optimistic when I'm a 9th APA report. ==References====External links== It says that it wants to regulate animal welfare in a uniform manner. – My question is: Is that just a speech bubble again, or is the FPÖ's ÖVP in the word, and is it finally swirling? Ladies and gentlemen! The secret will be revealed in the Subcommittee on Wednesday next week. There will show what the government is up to. - You can be excited.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22406	The next speaker is Mrs Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22428	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Parfuss, it is clear: There is a federal animal transport law in Austria. It's not as bad as you present it here. This is a fact that there is a federal uniform animal transport law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Parfuss, I do, however, give you the right to achieve a uniformity in some areas, because this is also more cost-effective and sensible. But these disunity landing regulations – nine construction regulations, nine nature conservation laws or regulations, nine animal welfare laws –: Please, you left that to us! [[Abg. Perfuss: No!]] Of course, that was the SPÖ in the coalition with the ÖVP! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We inherited that. We cannot change it overnight, but we are on the best way to do so, even in the course of the administrative reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now to this animal transport law or to animal transport. – I also give you the right to do so, and I believe that everyone in this House has an opinion: 32 million animals are transported annually by the European Union. 32 million animals over hundreds, thousands of kilometers, highly subsidized – this is devastating! It is devastating for the environment and for nature, but also for the farmers and especially for the animals that suffer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is crazy, also economic nonsense, that, for example, pigs are born in Germany, are measured in Spain, then transported from Spain to Denmark, slaughtered and processed there, and eventually consumed somewhere in the European Union. Why this entire hiking circus? – This is very easy: It's only about maximising profits. For example, Spain has more favourable climatic conditions and significantly lower environmental standards than Austria, Denmark or Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] Transport's too cheap, I'll give you the right. The conditions in Spain... [[Abg. Dietachmayr: truck toll!]] Why didn't you introduce the truck toll when you were still in the government, Mr. Colleague? – You're always so hot, and now you know how everything goes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A year and a half ago, you had no idea how the thing goes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of a sudden, you'll be done – election defeats really have an advantage! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is a decision...!]] – I want to make a final reference now because I only have two minutes. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Coalition Pact!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] In my opinion – and we agree with Mrs Parfuss – it is crazy to transport the same goods from one country to another, especially if they are living animals. The blessings of the free movement of goods have very many negative side effects. The animals are transported by wide roads, the motorways are ruined, the right lane is only a truck road. [[Abg. Kiermaier: You have to tell the ÖVP!]] The taxpayer pays the repair of the motorways. Do you know in what quality you left us the motorways? – Rumpelbahnen are the ones you left us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiermaier: ÖVP policy!]] I am really pleased that there is this four-party proposal, and I am very sure that the Minister of State will achieve the enforcement of this request within the scope of his capacity.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22608	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22654	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We had originally made a different request in the committee. Finally, I think it is important that this four-party request has been made, especially with regard to it – and that is why we can agree in this form – that the government and the Federal Minister of State are called on as a competent member of the government – to work in the context of the EU in the direction of recruiting livestock transport and the promotions for it. It is clear to us that it will take a while for us to really achieve this goal, but the efforts will have to start immediately. This also means, of course, that an Austrian vote for higher export refunds and for more live animals transports from today, is certainly not permitted from this moment on. I think that is already an essential step forward. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has been a long time, as we know today, of fatal world market orientation, which has not taken into account the fact that animals are just living beings and do not behave like dead matter. In the course of these ever-increasing transport links, of course, diseases and diseases are much more difficult to control. But also the origin of animals, as well as the conditions of farming and feeding, become more difficult to control. We know, however, that consumers across Europe want to know exactly about these circumstances. We believe that people also have a right to know from where their food – who once lived – comes from. Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, I think that – even in the course of this whole scandal and the terrible images that we all have unfortunately seen too often – perhaps there is a real reorientation of the Austrian and European agricultural policies. Especially when it comes to food of daily needs and living things, the principle must be: Production from the region for the region. It is clear that trade will, of course, remain possible to a limited extent. But in particular, the goods of daily needs should not normally be transported over extremely long distances, because this also creates ecological problems that are ultimately insoluble. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to point out something that is also related to this. If we want regional cycles – regional, manageable, quality-proof production, jobs in agriculture and further processing in the different regions – we must ensure that the processing structures in the animal sector, including the slaughterhouses, are not completely concentrated and that the principle cannot only be called: There is a rather brutal displacement competition, and everyone is trying to be a little cheaper in their services. – Rather, the character of the animals as living beings must also be taken into account there. In recent days, shocking pictures of changed procedures have reached us in the course of the BSE crisis. It is now abandoned the destruction of the cerebral brain. This sounds cruel, but is very important for the animal and saves him a lot of suffering. That's not happening anymore. We have been given picture documents, according to which a good part of the animals, especially large, heavy bulls, live and are with full consciousness when they are cut, divided and ultimately processed into meat. This is because the bolt does not kill, but only acts like a brain shake. That means that the animal is stunned in the short term, but not really killed. This is an example from Upper Austria. I didn't mention this butcher because I'm glad that there's this movie – it might sound macaber, but otherwise we wouldn't have known anything about it – and that at least the shooting permit was granted there. It is not a question of criminalising someone at all, but of stopping these terrible practices. I hope that – that is, I have already received signals in this direction – that we can cooperate here. We do not propose this today because I believe that the other political groups too should be able to discuss it. We want to ensure that massacres with anaesthetics are guaranteed even now, in the course of the BSE crisis. I do not want to do this in detail, but there are proposals from experts, according to which this can be done very well with respect for BSE monitoring. However, it requires training and reorientation in the slaughterhouses. I think we owe consumers and animals as living beings to ensure that any kind of avoidable cruelty is really avoided. I think we could set an example in this case, too, that it is possible, on an objective basis, to cooperate across party borders. I think it is necessary to react quickly in this last matter, because the images that we have now seen are shocking. We should make a quick contribution to the fact that we will soon be able to say: That too belongs to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22728	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. The relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure have already been mentioned many times today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22774	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Achatz was so kind to say to our side that we only now know how to do it right with regard to the question of introducing a truck toll. [[Abg. Auer:... no correction!]] By the way, she accused us of leaving so bad streets. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What is the case to be corrected?]] This is the case to be corrected. The statement of fact is wrong, Mr Khol. It is true that in the previous government period, together with the ÖVP, we decided on a road pricing, but the ÖVP Federal Party Board decided in spring 1997 not to execute this, and that the Minister responsible for Road Construction and for the introduction of the Road Pricing Farnleitner called and came from the ÖVP. Madam President, you could know that! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No actual correction either!]] Since then, the road pricing has been carried away by freedom ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22850	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22879	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic's suggestion is that, I believe, she should actually be taken up worthily. As far as I am aware, on the part of the Federal Minister of State, it is already planned that these measures, which are not in fact acceptable, should be abandoned in the process of adoption. I also offer that we will be making a comprehensive effort to bring this regulation to a positive conclusion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also pleased that a joint motion for a resolution from all the political groups has been adopted: In line with the Austrian legislation, in particular with regard to the duration of transport, a reasonable animal transport scheme is to be implemented in the EU. I am pleased for the reason that something positive is to be implemented for the animals, but also because it is ultimately a confirmation of a very positive Austrian regulation, which you did not then approve of in your group, ladies and gentlemen. For me, it is also remarkable what was read last week in an Austrian agricultural magazine: A Carinthian gastronomy complains that he gets too little calf meat of quality, and so on, and so on. In the same magazine, I read five or six pages further in the back that the Salzburg Agricultural Council must make a purchase-up action so that the price drop in the beef can be a little intercepted. At the same time, it is also learned that the Salzburg Bioverband appeals to stop marketing bull calves as organic calves, because the price in the infinite is shrunk downwards. Ladies and gentlemen! Something's wrong. On the one hand, one complains of the gastronomy in a federal state that there is nothing to have, there is too little quality, at the same time there is a surplus in a neighbouring state. Now I wonder what's not working there. Ladies and gentlemen! Nor do I think that, as provided for in this proposal, animal transport is generally prohibited. However, it is limited according to Austrian patterns, and it should be ensured that animals are subject to transport conditions and controls, because it cannot cause harm to animals. But it should also be mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria is an export country in the cattle sector. We produce about 140 percent of Austrian market needs and are therefore dependent on exporting meat to other countries or having the opportunity to carry out live animal transports. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask the Minister of State to do as successfully as he did at the time on this issue as European legislation is concerned. The following should also be mentioned: Under the Austrian Presidency and under the chairmanship of Molterers, the Council of Agriculture Ministers decided to link export refunds to animal-friendly transport, ladies and gentlemen. Under his presidency, and not among any other ministers, this has happened! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, it is to be mentioned in praise that the Swedish chairman will be very positive about these measures at the moment – this is what is being reported to us. We need uniform EU standards and not unilateral Austrian burdens. This should also be clarified, ladies and gentlemen, because it does not help us if the quality criteria are relatively high in Austria, but at the same time most of the Austrian consumers were looking at the price and did not ask what conditions there are, under which they are acting, produced, transported, slaughtered or otherwise they are being slaughtered. It is crucial that there are uniform, high-level standards in the EU. Austria's animal transport system, as well as the Austrian agricultural policy, is a model in the European Union. Not for nothing, ladies and gentlemen, 60 per cent of the funds for rural development and only 40 per cent for market regulatory expenditure are used in Austria, while almost 90 per cent are available for market regulation in the European Union. Austria's farmers – which shows themselves daily – and this has also proved to be more than 70 000 BSE tests – act and operate environmentally friendly. They demonstrate in their small structures that they deal responsibly with the animals. It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrian animal transport system should be an example for the whole of the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22956	Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e22977	Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned today: Animal transports are as they are carried out today and as they have finally been brought to the public – to thank the animal welfare organisations – by the inhumanst, who created our economic form and growth – not only in Europe, that is not a purely European problem. I think that the attempt to get hold of this only on the withdrawal of subsidies is too short, although it is one of the most necessary steps and should always be a matter of course when talking about the issue of animal transport. Finally, it is a symptom of our relationship with the animal, to the animal as a commodity. Goods will also be shipped by random mail throughout Europe. When it comes to living beings, it is simply a source of suffering. I believe that control densities must be increased for so long in this area until it can no longer be retiring to put this animal torture file! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this I come to the mention of a detail, which I can unfortunately not save you: Animal transports are not only taking place – Mr Vorsprecher has already mentioned this – because Austria is selling high-quality livestock abroad, but unfortunately animal transports are also taking place from very different motives, including those animals that are not taken into account. We have put a question on animals which are not covered by the protection provisions which are requested in the public debate. I am now talking about the fact that, obviously, in seasons, in which rabbit meat is very desired, transports of rabbits from the Czech Republic are taking place again and again. These are then slaughtered in a slaughterhouse in Tyrol and there are put on the market as low-calorie rabbit meat, also in the wake of the BSE crisis as non-drug meat, and, of course, are gladly removed from the gastronomy. These transports take place under the most horrific conditions: A control body has told me that the animals are stacked over each other in boxes and the lower locations in the excrements of the tops freeze and die, that there are major failures in these transports, but that is obvious – I never knew that it was even profitable to transport hares from the Czech Republic for our market! – has a certain growth perspective. This madness must be stopped immediately by increasing the number of controls and referring not only to the classic animal transporters, but to all trucks! According to this control body, the said transports of the rabbits were carried out in a very normal small truck. In other words, in Austria, we must not rely purely on the "classical" animal transport measures, but at last we must also put an end to measures to increase control density, so that bypasses by small trucks and such inhuman transport conditions for small animals have an end, immediately! I think this is unbearable and ask you, Mr Minister, to work in this context immediately with your colleague and colleague from the Ministry of the Interior and to stop it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23037	Mr Hornegger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23059	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The temporary meeting of BSE and foot-and-mouth disease has shown us that today's management system in European agriculture has long passed the natural environment. In many EU countries, an agricultural industry has developed, and the living beings are being degraded to goods exported under the law of supply and demand to all over the world. There were temporary restrictions due to BSE and foot-and-mouth disease due to major problems. However, the EU is now relieving the restrictions on transport, and slaughter cattle can again be carried across Europe around the world. Ladies and gentlemen! After years of discussions in the federal states, we were the first to set up a laboratory for animal transport under a liberal council in Salzburg! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Unfortunately, this measure had little success, as the transports were then diverted over other routes. Ladies and gentlemen! The volume of animal transport within the EU and the import and export of live livestock is still increasing sharply. The previous speaker has already said that millions of pigs, cattle and sheep are going to and from the EU Member States each year. That is why I and my party welcome the fact that the motion for a resolution in the Committee has received the approval of all the political groups. I hope that the signs of time will be recognised and improved animal transport standards introduced and implemented in Europe in accordance with the example of Austria. In particular, export refunds should be abolished and these funds used for responsible livestock production and for meat exports. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of slaughter in its own country or in its own region, value added would be reflected in the region. New jobs would be created, and it would not have to be closed up as it is now, land-by-field. A sentence on Islamic faith: It can't be that you throw all animal welfare measures overboard to continue approving the shafts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, a word to the address of the green activists: Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! With such a political spectacle, as was the case today in front of Parliament, you are harming the entire agriculture in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We cannot support such actions. We in Austria are still producing healthy food, not food and toxic soups, as it has been presented to Parliament today! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Petrovic! You don't know how to do it right in your mind! In the "NEWS", where you are of course again strongly represented, you can read about the "death fight on the flow band". Mrs Petrovic! You should read the regulations that we are not inventing in Austria, but that are made in the EU. This is necessary for two reasons. If you read it through, you know it! If you can't destroy the cerebellum anymore, you have to use different methods. [[Abg. Oillinger: You should think a little bit!]] It is known that in the case of a strong and precisely carried out spherical intoxication, there is such a deep unconsciousness that the immediately following hemorrhage is not perceived by the animals. That's what experts say. But they probably assume that soon we will not be able to kill at all! That would probably be in your mind!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23123	The next speaker is Mr Schweisgut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23145	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The transport of animals and the uniform Austrian animal welfare law have been and are always recurring topics in the short time since I was a Member. I'd like to say: Fortunately for Austria, we have also had strict legal provisions for animal transport for years. On the other hand, I would like to say that our agriculture in the mountain areas cannot exist without exports of live livestock exports. In principle, therefore, a distinction should be made between the transport of animals for slaughter and the transport of breeding animals. In the case of breeding animals, there is the need to continue to transport animals alive in international trade. In the case of slaughter, this logical need does not exist. High house! I would like to stress that one should not turn against animal transport, but, as I believe, against abuse and against persons who do not comply with animal welfare rules. Improvements should be made especially in the other EU countries. In this direction, the four-party resolution proposal adopted unanimously today, which was adopted by the Committee. I hope that, on this basis, a rapid implementation in the EU can take place. Austria alone is far too small to implement these strict provisions and to control them, above all. As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, I know of course what problems there are in international animal transport. A lot of live cattle is transported via the burner, and for Tyrol, the situation has improved considerably with the installation of the charging station. Many freighters now no longer take the risk of not transporting animal welfare. There is also something to be said quite clearly here: Many organisations repeatedly claim that many animal transports are carried out within the EU because of the support. – That is absolutely incorrect! There is no support for animal transport within the EU, but only for third countries, and there too the premiums will be removed if animal welfare legislation has not been complied with and there has been an advertisement. – This too should be mentioned. In this context, there were six ads against Austrian companies last year, which were then not reimbursed the total subsidies of over 800 000 S and which had to pay 140 000 S of fines. So there are already rules and provisions in this area which allow the animal transport to be carried out accordingly. As a Haflinger breeder, I have a long experience with animal transport, and I know that the transport of live animals is not a problem when it is prepared and logistically prepared and when the regulations are observed. This includes proper handling of living animals, and I believe we are able to continue to carry out live transport in a certain legal framework. High house! Of course, it must be our intention to find a reasonable solution to animal transport. A complete ban on animal transport, on the other hand, is unrealistic. Our objective must be to improve the EU transport directive or EU transport regulations. I believe that we will be able to implement this motion for a resolution at European level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23198	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber has spoken about an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23231	Mr Hornegger here claimed that the Greens had held an event in front of Parliament today. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Is Austria a "swein stable" or not? Do you take this back?]] I'm actually correcting: The event was conducted by environmental organisations, in particular Global 2000, WWF, Four Pfoten and Greenpeace.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23279	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23301	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are grateful for the compromise formula found on the subject of teletransport of live animals. This, by the way, corresponds to a demand for freedom of movement for many years. I am glad that there has been a four-party compromise in this regard! In addition, I am also hopeful that a common result will also be achieved with regard to the newly raised issue of incomplete or bad killing in the slaughterhouses. I am grateful to Mr Petrovic for giving us the opportunity to continue to discuss these contents in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Federal Minister! Today, in an APA broadcast of a meat conference, they have reported that consumers have become much more critical and want a follow-up of production "from the field to the counter". It is not so much about product quality, but the quality of the process is in the foreground. - I'll give you the right! One can argue about the form of the brochure that the AMA now distributes. But it is definitely effective, the content is informative. But I mean, an addition would still be good. For example, missing in the section "From farm to slaughter" indications of the transport situation, and there is also no indication of the form of slaughter. We should note that consumers are also interested in how these "emotional shares in the consumption of beef" – as you have described it – are handled and practised. I would also ask all the political groups to present this joint motion. Mrs Perfuss! You too are invited! You have a number of members of the EU in your group! That also concerns the Greens! We have provided an intermediate service, and the ÖVP is also asked to give protection to the Federal Minister if he is introduced to the EU regarding the abolition or support of long-distance transports for live animals, and we and the EU delegates can at least help in this regard. One last: Mrs Parfuss! Today, you have again addressed the Federal Animal Protection Act via the media. I say: You will not succeed, Mrs Perfuss, in making this subject the subject of explosion for our two coalition groups! We are on our way to convince the government partner of the need for federal uniform regulations, and you will experience the fact that what you, at least verbally, wish to do, will be implemented in the foreseeable future! I've faced you the last time that you've obviously only discovered federal animal protection for about a year. You have rightly replied that President Fischer has already become a secretary in your club in 1970. – However, on the fact that he was not particularly successful, we will both agree! But I am good courage that what you did not do in 30 years – you need not only show over there now, there have also been solo governments and other coalition forms! – will succeed in Bälde. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23344	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23362	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is a great joy and also a satisfaction that today a long-term freedom claim regarding the animal transport law will finally be implemented by means of a request from all four parties here in the House! For me, it is particularly interesting that this new coalition between the ÖVP and the Freedom Party has dealt with something that was apparently not possible in the previous coalitions between Social Democracy and ÖVP in 14 months. We have today found a really important motion for a resolution, and I hope that we will finally bring the European Union to the fore! Mr. Minister! At the same time, I see this proposal as a starting point for an initiative on equal production conditions and producer directives throughout the EU. First of all, our aim must be to strengthen the competitiveness of Austrian farmers and not endanger them, secondly to ensure the sustainability of agriculture and thus to ensure a healthy environment for our offspring and thirdly not to operate profit maximisation at the expense of innocent creatures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Minister! I wish you every success in your negotiations with the relevant EU bodies, so that in the future this untold animal suffering can be put to an end and the competitiveness of our Austrian farmers can continue to be strengthened!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23407	Mr Zellot is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23428	Mr President. Federal Minister! As a farmer, who from time to time is involved in the loading of slaughter animals and in the transport of farmed animals, I am particularly pleased that there has again been a victory of reason regarding the prevention of animal transport by various EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The pain of the animals has not yet ended with the loading and long transport on the road. Often it is loaded again, and the suffering continues on the ship. I don't need to mention any details now. You've seen that in the movies. I believe it is a Parliamentary duty for us to act against such machinations and, above all, against the zeal for trade in the image of the peasantry. – Minister! I would ask you to take action against these transports in the European Union. On this film, which Mrs Petrovic has mentioned today, and on her report, the following must be said: In principle, such methods – the rules in the slaughterhouses are often not applied properly – should be rejected! I also believe that, of course, the EU-tested slaughterhouses must be controlled by EU veterinarians when slaughtering. The amount of flow of electricity must be carefully checked, particularly when slaughtering pigs, in order to ensure that the level of intoxication actually occurs. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Of course, it may also happen in cattle that due to negligence and somnolence the right and sufficiently strong killing device for the animal in question is not used. However, it is to be remembered that it does not happen again!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23467	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23489	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months it has probably been shown that there is a lot to think about in the European Union, in particular the question of whether it really makes sense to liberalise animal transport within the Community. The issue of disease problem has made it very clear that there must ultimately also be useful limits for it. I therefore believe that this motion for a resolution is perfectly correct – I thank you for your broad support. . because it clearly defines the objective, namely a restriction to the necessary level and implementation under conditions which actually comply with the animal welfare principle. We have moved a lot in the European Union since we were members, for example with regard to the Animal Transport Directive, whose improvement is now under discussion, and with regard to the binding of refunds on compliance with the relevant criteria or with the improvement of the animal husbandry scheme – keyword: Pig farming – which is now under discussion. We will be sent to the next Council of Agriculture Ministers on 22 February. On the other hand, I would like to stress the need for a public debate on the ethics of animal husbandry, in which, of course, I am very clearly represented in the Austrian position. I believe that the concern to have common standards on animal husbandry, animal feed and medication is very important, and I hope that we can start initiatives in this area quickly. Mrs Petrovic! I would like to offer you a cooperation, just as Mr Haupt, to solve this problem. I would like to inform the House briefly about where the problem lies: On the basis of the BSE crisis, the Scientific Veterinary Committee has banned a certain form of killing – in my opinion, with regard to the BSE risk – but has failed to offer an alternative, and that is why we are rapidly developing this sensible alternative. Finally, I would like to ask you if we continue this discussion to answer other questions as well. I can remind myself that it was also discussed that alternative slaughter options were also available in connection with alternative forms of animal husbandry, such as winter slaughter in the farm or pasture, in order to avoid the transport of live animals. The answer was that this is not feasible because of the hygiene directives. However, in the sense of weighing goods, I wonder if we should not also have a meaningful discussion about this, because I doubt that the question of hygiene can be a really crucial counter-argument when it comes to developing sensible alternative slaughter methods. - Thank you. .. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23534	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report in 571 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of the Committee's report to give a sign. – This is decided by a majority. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 571 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution gives their approval to a sign. This resolution was unanimously adopted by the National Council. (E 82.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the motion for a resolution 192/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Wolfgang Pirklhuberand comrades concerning measures to reduce pesticides consumption (568 of supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the motion for a resolution 193/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Wolfgang Pirklhuberand comrades on seeds in transport for the conservation of plant genetic resources (569 of supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the motion for a resolution 194/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Wolfgang Pirklhuberand comrades on research focus for the production of organic seed (570 of the supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 191/A by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Wolfgang Pirklhuberand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Agriculture Act (572 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23640	We come to points 10 to 13 of the agenda. The debate is under one. The rapporteur on these agenda items, Mr Kampichler, fails to report orally so that we can go into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23671	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I have a request to you, Minister of State. They spoke on the previous item on the agenda at the end of the debate. On the basis of the unanimity on the request, this is not a problem, but I would like to ask you to comment on the agenda items which are now under discussion, so that Members can make a replication on your statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a number of requests in these agenda items, which unfortunately were all rejected in the Committee. This is not surprising, because these applications all come from an opposition group, and it would indeed have been a miracle if these requests had been approved. But what, ladies and gentlemen, has happened to these rejections? All applications have to do with ecologisation and organic farming, one specifically with organic production and with the amendment of the Agriculture Act. This would have had an opportunity, but we were not surprised that this opportunity was not used and that this change was rejected in the sense of organic farming, because a government that has committed in two budgets that is blatantly less money available for consultation in the organic farming sector has not been able to expect it to agree to the change of agricultural law in a biological way. However, as I have already pointed out, this has once again provided an opportunity to ecologize in agriculture, to improve market opportunities and to improve the importance of agriculture throughout the whole of the social and economic structure, but also to improve justice in the award of support, because this would be more possible by reference to environmental principles. Dear ladies and gentlemen! But we do not experience something like this for the first time, because, in order to implement the horizontal regulation on the EU Agenda, it has been clearly stated several times by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs: There is no question that in Austria a degression in size will be introduced, which would make this regulation possible. It is not necessary to grant support according to ecological criteria. This would also be possible through this horizontal regulation. Federal Minister! They have also repeatedly refused to work out the intensity of labour force and the use of work as a criterion for funding and to use it as the best criterion for funding. This would be an improvement in justice, and this would also improve for small-scale Austrian agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr President, I should like to thank However, I am a boundless optimist. I'm also an optimist because we all know: The opportunity has never been so great to bring about a change at European level, but also at national level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Act on your party colleagues abroad! Act on your party colleague Schröder!]] Mr President, I should like to thank Never before have so many people participated in the discussions and shown interest in agricultural production and in the further processing of these products. [[Abg. Großruck: Schröder should go the Austrian way!]] But this opportunity must be used, and one must use it in several ways: on the one hand, for justice in the medium distribution. [[Abg. Großruck: Schröder is against it!]] Colleagues Auer has said very proudly that 60 percent of agricultural resources flow into rural development and 40 percent into the market order. The background to this is, of course, also in the WTO rounds and in the WTO agreements, we know that. But if only 3 per cent of these 60 per cent are used for rural development outside the agricultural area for the people of the cities, such as a question answered by the Federal Minister, then this is clearly too little, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I see the current situation as an opportunity, and I say that the agricultural policy is at the crossroads. There is the possibility to continue the previously abandoned path: Agricultural lobbyists distribute the money without regard to justice, the big ones get more because they manage more surface or more cow tails, the little ones get less, even if they produce under difficult conditions, and the biological farms we may only be keeping ourselves as hanging shields. [[Abg. Großruck: Blair and Schröder!]] Federal Minister! We have the opportunity to do something together, namely to go the other way, the future-looking path, and together with consumers, producers and producers, to take the path in a forward-looking economic way on biological foundations in agriculture, thus achieving more acceptance and more opportunities in the regional economic sector and increasing the opportunity for people between cities. Federal Minister! If you take this forward-looking path, you will have us at your side and as a co-compator. If you go the other way, you will not only lose many farmers, but you will also lose the next elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23777	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23799	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to take a sober look at all these points – the treatment of greens’ requests for a reduction in pesticides consumption, seeds for the conservation of plant genetic resources, the production of organic seeds and, in addition, the amendment of the Agriculture Act – it is urgently necessary to look at once at the state of the current situation of agriculture. I say quite deliberately "Ist-state" because Austrian agriculture is currently in a not very happy situation, and I believe that it is also essential – as at the previous item on the agenda on animal transport – to show this. Compared with other EU Member States, Austria's agriculture has an environmental role to play. Austria has a strict plant protection law and a fertiliser law with various restrictions and restrictions. Although other countries are implementing reforms on plant protection and fertiliser use, they still have to work on it for many years until they reach those standards that already exist in Austria. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Ing. Maderthaner.]] The evidence is on the table: Honest feeding, animal welfare, strict hygiene regulations and precise animal identification result in Austrian products being in the top European field today! That is the merit of our agriculture. I mean, at a time when one believes it is necessary to do something even better in order to perhaps give farmers a better deserve, it is also necessary to establish the state of the state of the state once so that one knows what the target state is like. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think the problem in the European Union, which you have mentioned before, is the curse of the crowd. A lot of people are talking about it. But Austria – whether that is organic farming or whether this is other measures – is a show country. We have a land-based agriculture and, of course, we can also improve it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, as long as there are animal factories in the European Union that pose the highest risk of disease, and as long as the disease control of Member States such as Austria and all taxpayers has to be paid, the system is unfair. As long as there is still intensive land use there that is exploited, water protection and soil protection are still foreign words, as long as there are still burning cattle mountains in other Member States, only the innocent always come to the handcushion and farmers always have to take the price losses, we do not have a common agricultural policy, but only a common agricultural policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now it is not the question of the system. Of course, we must also focus on farmers. What do we want with our landscape? What can we offer consumers in the future, and what else can we do to preserve our cultural landscape and to preserve our families and farms? I believe that it will be important in the future to show the conditions and contexts. I have not yet talked about the hygiene provisions, which are still true of environmental standards in connection with the enlargement of the East. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it would be important to put that in the foreground. We should not invent something right now in the time of crisis, we should make something worse again. We can always improve something, but it takes time. Give the farmers the chance to breathe!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23880	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e23987	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Call the liberals: Excuse me!]] I think it would be important for us to take a little time for this item on the agenda. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The size he doesn't have that he apologizes! Little ghost!]] Mr Haigermoser! We'll be done soon. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hands out of the pants bag when you talk to us!]] Then you can walk out of the house in peace and spend a nice evening. But before, please, a few more words on these Green requests. These applications are a set of measures for the ecological reorientation of Austrian agriculture. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We expect your excuse!]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a necessary consequence of a crisis in the European agricultural policy, but also a necessary consequence on the basis of Austrian scandals. The core of the green applications is the attempt to develop a new model for Austrian agriculture, which includes expanding our current good position as regards ecologisation, offensively addressing this position of organic farming as a strategy for the future of agriculture. Bio-agriculture as a model means producing food, ladies and gentlemen, offensively, free of genetic engineering and according to the highest standards. Priority for organic products also means ensuring the future for Austrian farmers, because consumers expect that the quality of food does not decline and decrease, but is still guaranteed at a high level and perhaps even at an even higher level in the future. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Priority for Bio, however, is also a very clear priority for agricultural production and development, which is a priority for non-artifactural animal husbandry, of course a priority for the nitrate pollution of groundwater and also a priority for the use of pesticides. Ladies and gentlemen! This reorientation is a huge opportunity that we should benefit from, because – and I am going to come to a statement of the state of the state that is attached to the statements made by Mr Zelot – the starting point is not as rosy as Mr Zelot has tried to present it. The EU Court of Auditors has made massive criticisms in a detailed analysis of the ecologicalisation of the common agricultural policy in Europe, which is a massive criticism of the current environmental programmes in Europe. Among other things, this report from the EU Court of Auditors has found that the measures currently have no effect in areas with intensive agriculture. Federal Minister! You know this report, you need to know it! No impact in areas with intensive farming, no measures against intensive animal husbandry! And specifically to Austria it is stated in this EU Court report: Only a few farmers have had to change their usual practice when entering the environmental programme. – That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality! That is why we have tabled a proposal which specifically provides for an action plan, an action plan for the reduction of pesticides in Austria. This is the only chance, Mr Federal Minister – please listen to me at this point! – in order to really reduce the use of pesticides. The EU Court of Auditors report makes this clear and clear. I quote literally from the report: "A significant local downturn often seemed to be based on Member States' independent initiatives." The report refers to specific pesticides action plans in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Ladies and gentlemen! The Swedish programme has a 70 percent pesticides reduction factor. In Austria, in the first environmental programme, during the period 1995 to 1999, we did not recover, I repeat: no reduction in the total amount of pesticides used at all. Mr. Federal Minister, this is a fact. Of course, it is true that we have achieved a significant reduction of 60 tonnes to 3 tonnes in sub-areas, specifically in the case of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction in the reduction of the reduction in the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction in the volume of the carcasses. There are already relevant declines, but there is no decline in the main groups, herbicides and fungicides. I therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to put this action plan into effect. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if you reject these requests today, you will soon see that they are EU-compliant, that the EU Commission makes similar proposals and that similar measures are already contained in the Commission's proposal for 2001 to 2010. But now let me say a few words to the Ist-Stand: There is currently no official list in Austria for those active substances that are actually used, a list of individual active substance groups which are publicly available, Mr. Federal Minister. Even here you hold back information, and I think it would be time for the public, for Members to get clear figures on the table so that they know how many and what active substances – in concrete order, by groups – are used in Austria. There is no monitoring that would analyze how farmers are currently dealing with pesticides. There are German studies that show that there is still very little action in this area, which, of course, also harms farmers. There is also no layout or map that would be accessible to me, which shows in which regions pesticides are used in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! So this is the state of affairs, and I do not understand, Minister of State, that there is no positive signal in this direction from the side of the government groups in any form. That should be your concern, too! As Minister for the Environment, they should have a great interest in being a pioneer in reducing the use of pesticides. I don't understand, and I can't take it! One more question as to what it really looks like in Austria. I have a recent newspaper article: Overcrowded chicken factory sidesteps, the famous case, a farm with more than 40 000 laying hens. This operation has also bypassed an EIA. These are developments that are currently possible in Austria, because no new model, no clear target orientation and no really efficient linkage of production to high environmental standards are given. Federal Minister! I also believe that this rural development programme and the part of the environmental programme are urgently to be revised, a review of its objectives. I remind you: For example, this rural development programme defines only the maintenance of the status quo in the field of green land for the period 2000 to 2006 and I think this is a defensive strategy. I am sorry that you are not prepared here to take a step further, to take a step forward, so that we are not overwhelmed by other EU countries, which send very, very positive signals in this area. At European level, a massive rethinking process has been set in motion, and I think that Ladies and gentlemen, if you reject these requests, in a few months or years you will be somewhat surprised by the opportunities you have missed. It is also about securing future markets for Austrian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24085	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24107	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, you already know that ÖPUL is the largest pesticides reduction programme in the European Union. We are already at a very low level compared to other European countries. However, Austria cannot, of course, be compared with countries such as Sweden or Finland, which have very extensive, large areas in the north, where, due to the cold temperatures, there can hardly be pests. Mr Pirklhuber! There has been no increase in herbicides and fungicides since 1995, for example, and for insecticides we have been able to reduce consumption from 122.8 tonnes in 1995 to 87.7 tonnes. This is at least 70 percent of the 1995 value. With the growth regulators, the use – you mentioned yourself – has fallen from 17.3 tons to 4.7 tons, thus to a value of 26 percent. These efforts should also be recognized. I would, however, like to focus on the agricultural law, because there would have been a demand for innovation in the agricultural law. I believe that the target paragraphs of the Agricultural Act continue to have the highest actuality, and I would therefore like to recall § 1, which is what our Agricultural Law defines as the objective – I quote –: "The objective of the agricultural policy and of this federal law is to maintain an economically healthy, efficient, rural agriculture and forestry in a functional rural area, taking into account the social orientation, environmental compatibility and regional balance, taking particular account of mountain areas and other disadvantaged areas" – I wonder: What do you have to object to this wording? (c) to adapt to the changes in national economic conditions and to promote agriculture and the interests of consumers in order to achieve a balance between natural and environmental disadvantages against other sectors, (a) to ensure the best possible supply of high-quality food and raw materials, (b) to ensure the best possible supply for the population of the population, (c) to adapt to the changes in national economic conditions and (d) to promote the natural habitats of soil, water and air, sustainable development and sustainable development (e) to promote sustainable development and sustainable development of the EU, (e) to develop the multiplicity of employment and employment combinations between agriculture and other economic sectors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] This is set out in the Agriculture Act, and I believe that it still has the same topicality today as in the decision-making process. We Austrians need our farmers, and that is why I also welcome the action of the "Kronen-Zeitung", the so-called Farm Manifest, because this makes the population aware that in Austria, natural agriculture must also have the future. As a Commissioner for Agriculture for Europe, the Dutch Socialist Mansholt has called for industrial agriculture with the aim of producing cheaper food for consumers. We in Austria have never gone this way. But if we are in Austria as ecologically as possible, we should also think that public institutions in Austria are supporting this. I am disillusioned that the Wiener Spitals-Holding imports between 300 and 350 calves from Holland every week, specialising in milk exchangers and not, as in Austria, with whole milk, with cow's milk. [[Abg. Grandruck: There's no such thing as that!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is how it is in Vienna!]] Three weeks ago, the Managing Director of the Salzburg Bio Association had to make an appeal to the organic farmers in Salzburg – I quote from the newspaper "Salzburger Bauer": "We recommend... Bully calves 1. Quality no longer to market as organic calves (extremely oversupply, long waiting times), but to sell as set calves for the bull mast. Due to the long waiting period, the organic calves reach too high a slaughter weight and can no longer be marketed through the organic rails." In the same period, the stinged calves, i.e. the carcasses, have in Salzburg, depending on the quality between 40 and 44 S/kg – that is, organic calves as carcasses! – cost them while they cost 70 S/kg a year ago. So we try to offer as high standards as possible in Austria, and then there are facilities like the Wiener Spitals-Holding who import their calves from Holland, where they are exclusively used with milk exchangers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And the Greens join us in Vienna! That's embarrassing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One has to recognize reality: We will also have as many organic farmers in Austria in the future as the market requires. The organic milk is currently being collected separately in Salzburg, for example. However, we can only sell 65 percent of the organic milk in the form of organic products, and this is still very strong in export. If this export falls back, for example, because organic production is stimulated in the countries themselves, then we will have special difficulties in Austria. In a free market economy, supply and demand will regulate the market and price. Consumers must be prepared to buy more organic products. The trade chains make for their actions like "Yes, of course!" or "natural pure" a lot of advertising, but in most cases you do not get beyond a 10-, 15- or at best 20-percent share. So this development will have consumers in their hands – the farmers are ready. In my constituency, 48 percent of all farmers are organic farmers. But these are already leading me to the accusation that we are still advertising more organic farmers, although they can no longer sell their products than organic products, because the market is not present. [[Mr Haigermoser and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Again: The agricultural law in its previous form is up-to-date, and therefore I do not believe that we need to innovation it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24185	Mr Molterer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24206	Mr President. High house! I would of course like to comply with the wishes of Mr Klubobmann's deputy, Mr Gradwelt, who obviously has a special interest in my opinion – I think so. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He already has the deer-horn buttons on his garment!]] In this discussion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that we hold together as a preliminary remark: In Austria we have no case of foot-and-mouth disease, in Austria we have no case of BSE in almost 70 000 tests carried out, in Austria we have an environmental programme, which is exemplary throughout Europe, in Austria we have 60 percent of the total rural development funds – in Europe it is on average 10 percent – and in Austria we have largely a rural structure in the processing industry, but also, of course, in the field of arable farming, a structure other than industrialized regions on this continent, in Austria we have a mining fund which is looking for the same, which, for example, with the introduction of the base amount, gets a completely new dimension, in Austria we have a share of bio-producers to benefit other Member States of the European Union – not least, I will be invited at the Bioconference tomorrow to explain and present this Austrian concept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the facts we should be proud of! On the last occasion here in plenary, I made the request: Let us also be patriots in this context! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This must be said to the Greens!]] Let us be proud of what we have achieved, and let us also give the farmers the signal that we are right that the farmers have put on the right horse! – The discussion that is now being held is actually being held by some as if we were in another country! Sometimes I feel that we are in some industrial region of this continent when we discuss agricultural policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why we do well to debate the strategy, Mr Pirklhuber, but then the right one. I believe that in Europe we need market rules that deserve the name by actually ordering the market and including quantitative control elements. I believe that in Europe we need uniform standards for all producers so that producers who are based on ecological criteria do not have a competitive disadvantage. Thirdly, I believe that in Europe we need to transform more for rural development, because, ladies and gentlemen, everything that is used in rural development ultimately benefits society, even if the farmers get the money. The environmental programme allows for environmentally sound production, of which everyone has something! Mining is the mining industry, but the city is happy because the landscape is maintained. – I would say that we should hold the discussion in this way. I represent the principle that animal husbandry should be surface-bound, taking into account small producers and their problems. [[Abg. Zweytick: Right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know that Austria is acting at European level for the stageling of market organisation payments. Why at European level? I say it for the x-th time: because I do not want to bring the Austrian producers, the Austrian farmers in competitive disadvantages to their competitors. I believe that part of the strategy is quality differentiation, but it must also have place in the market. Quality differentiation will also require price differentiation – which is part of this strategy – because only better prices ultimately allow for higher quality. This principle of the market must also be implemented here. And from my point of view, ecologisation is a comprehensive and not a sectoral objective, because we can only achieve ambitious projects such as groundwater protection. Therefore, an open word in the field of organic farming: Everyone in this house is interested in the fact that there are more organic farmers, I suppose, and it is the common goal to keep the nose in front. Yes! But we must not make the mistake of seeing this goal isolated from the development of the market because otherwise we would introduce a problematic development for organic farmers, which ultimately causes surplus production and price pressure – something that the conventional sector suffers in important areas. That's the jumping point: If we motivate consumers and trade, then the goal of having more organically producing plants will be easier to implement. Just one sentence at the end, ladies and gentlemen: In all this discussion, let us not forget that we need economically successful farmers! But in many of these debates, A is discussed, but not B. Farmers want to produce this quality and fulfill their ecological obligation. However, they also need the economic foundations to ensure, on the one hand, through the promotions, but they can never be fully remunerated by the promotions, because farmers claim to earn on the market and also to achieve good and reasonable prices with good products. That is a part, an essential strategic part of an agricultural policy approach. I do not want agricultural policy to mean promotion discussion and finally to be standardized as beneficiaries. No, I would like to see economically successful businesses, which ultimately also prevail in the market, where we need those consumers who actually do what they are talking about in the survey. And we need the economy as a partner, both in processing and in trade, which actually implements this strategy together successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24311	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24332	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, because you have referred to the mining grant and the compensation allowance, I would like to say the following: The mining grant and the compensation allowance were achievements from the Social Democratic era in the 1970s, which were created for our farmers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On behalf of Mr Schwarzenberger: I think it's really sad if it is, and if it's true that the hospital holding in Vienna carries their meat from abroad. I can only say from my region that hospitals around Bad Ischl and Gmunden get the best meat from the mountains there, and the patients are fully satisfied with the juicy steaks that are served there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Say this to the head too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say in advance that we are going along with Mr Pirklhuber's Amendment No 191/A because it would be important for organic farming to be laid down in the Agriculture Act and to be given the importance that he really deserves. We see that organic farming in Austria is actually being treated stepmotherly. There is really no equal opportunities in relation to traditional forms of management. We see this on the one hand in the field of support policy, and on the other hand we have seen this in the budget decision, where the funding for organic farming has been reduced once again. Ladies and gentlemen! Organic economies – which we have already heard today – mean more animal protection, means species protection, means soil protection and, above all, the protection of drinking water – is a very important matter. Everything can be seen from the background that very, very many people in Austria do not have drinking water in sufficient quality. We know there are major problems with nitrate in drinking water. We have this situation everywhere where intensive agriculture is being carried out. I am speaking here of Marchfeld, I am speaking here of the Leibnitzer Becken, and there are many other areas that have been pitied. [[Abg. Zweytick: Do you know how high the nitrate values in the Leibnitz field are at present?]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the sale of forest and water that you have initiated and are driving forward is the wrong way. I'd say this path is irresponsible. 28 000 hectares are available for sale – there is now a new sales list of Bundesforeste AG – and I tell you, of course, water sources are also affected during this sale; I refer to Wolfgangtal, for example. Of course, large water catchment areas are also affected – I refer, for example, to the sale of the Schoberstein – and of course also parts of protected forests are affected, also in the Schoberstein area. I do not hear any more about how, for example, the rights of the forested people are secured. My question is: Is there only vague commitments here, or are there any contracts that are truly binding, so that the service of the forested people can also be recorded in the basic book? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! I'm telling you, your forest sale will be revenged. They're causing a damage that can never be done well again. The voters will take responsibility for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24401	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24422	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, the Greens and some of the organizations that are very close to your party seem to leave nothing untapped to give our domestic producers a bad witness. Mr Pirklhuber, you, as a farmer, should know that in Austria we have the strictest producer directives in the European Union and that the ÖPUL programme is a guarantee for healthy food and environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly agriculture. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: I talked about the consumers!]] Mr Pirklhuber, instead of worrying consumers, should inform consumers about how beneficial it is to enjoy Austrian food and thus help our environmentally oriented and environmentally oriented farmers to secure their existence in the future. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: That's what I'm going to do!]] Mr Pirklhuber! What is it like in the other countries of the European Union? I have a 9th APA message here. May. The Hamburg Consumer Centre advises German consumers to wait for strawberries to be enjoyed until German strawberries, i.e. more or less ecological strawberries, are on the market. According to laboratory chief Mehmet Cetinkaya, they are not supposed to resort to the Spanish or Italian products because he claims that Italian and Spanish in particular Strawberries are highly contaminated with sprays and that of 20 samples, six were more or less contaminated. Mr Pirklhuber! This too is agricultural policy. If you were to act like this here in Austria, you could really help our farmers. But everything seems to have to be done here in Austria. In your requests, you demand even harder penalties than before. Do you even know how high the penalties are for farmers if they do not comply with the guidelines in the public sector? Mr Pirklhuber! These penalties are sometimes in danger of existence for some farmers today. As punishment, you have to pay back more or less the five-year funding if you get caught in a crime. Every farmer is well advised if he adheres strictly to the Public Health Guidelines when he is seeking these promotions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: This happens on a voluntary basis!]] Mr Pirklhuber! You cannot ask the farmers to do so and expect him to agree to any of your requests. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Wimmer! It is you and Social Democracy who would be well advised not to go along with the Greens' requests in this case. In fact, you are doing a huge damage to Austrian agriculture, and I guarantee you will regret it in the next few years when you respond to Mr Pirklhuber's proposals. The high producer standards that Austrian farmers are already waiting for in Austria today are a guarantee for our consumers – for them to be able to obtain healthy food from Austrian farmers in the future. Let us all do something together to convince consumers that it is right to resort to Austrian agricultural products and thus allow our farmers, our ecologically oriented farmers, their existence here in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24499	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24520	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is interesting how the assessment of the Austrian agricultural policy has changed within two years in the presentation of Mr Wenitsch. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But also the SPÖ!]] But you're capable of learning, I suppose. Federal Minister! It was really good that you spoke in the debate, because I can only underline what you said. I think it is very important for Austrian agriculture, for the Austrian population, that we have no case of BSE or foot-and-mouth disease in our country, and I hope only in the interest of all of us that this will continue in the future. But I also hope, Minister of State, that, as mentioned in the Committee, you can finance the studies that are necessary – and I believe we agree that they are necessary – in the future, and hopefully keep your financing plan. They have addressed patriotism, and they mean that one has to show agriculture that it has set on the right horse. This is where our opinions are divided, because the right horse, as you see it, Mr Federal Minister, is in my view already such as to continue on the old tracks and to introduce innovations as slowly as possible. If we look at the successes for which you then demand patriotism, then you see, it's between how They represent a difference – for example, in the Committee, where you mean that sales declines are between zero per cent and 10 per cent depending on the region, and prices are about 20 per cent to 25 per cent below the previous year’s level – and what is then happening in reality – the right way as you mentioned it. If I look at the local newspapers, I'll see that looks different from what you're talking about. These newspapers are not of any kind, they're from this week. For example, the headings read: "Out of the way", "Trostless", "The situation of cattle farmers is very bad", "The meat prices are too low". – But this is not the "evil opposition", which criticizes it, ladies and gentlemen, but these are the statements of the farmers’ representatives, these are the statements of the farmer's chamber Mistelbach, the farmer's chamber Wolkersdorf, the farmer's chamber Poysdorf. For example, the Chamber of Farmers Poysdorf, President Schwarzenberger, has found: "At present we are perfect without cattle farmers, and it is likely that the pig farmers will soon be similar." – That can't be the right way or the right horse, ladies and gentlemen. And since you have referred to the amendment of the funding policy, Mr Federal Minister, I must say to you: This change in funding policy is too slow, because you continue to support your 400 millionaires in the first place. These are in the foreground, not the small farmer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Schwarzenberger thanked for the farmer's manifesto and called it a good representation. What's in there, for example? The fact that farmers are forced to maintain mass animals, the abuse of chemical and pharmaceutical products is left to them. If that is what an opposition politician says, President Schwarzenberger, then you shout out loud, but if the Nonning or Diegand says, thank you, including the Federal Minister who even sent a fax. That's what it says: Abuse in agriculture – and you thank yourself. And this abuse actually exists. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: European agriculture is being criticized during abuse!]] Finally, let us return to drinking water, Mr Wenitsch! You mentioned that you haven't had any problems in your home community so far, despite the water from a house well. I made the effort and checked the nitrate values from your home community, from Weikendorf. The minimum value of 1992 was 118 milligrams, a peak of 1996 was 206 milligrams, and the last figure of September 2000 is 134 milligrams, i.e. three, four, five times the limit value, but the colleague Wenitsch has no problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24577	Next speaker is... [[Abg. Wenitsch: Actual correction!]] The registration does not work by phone. [[Abg. Wenitsch goes to the Bureau.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Wenitsch spoke of an actual correction. I would ask you to restore the facts to be corrected and to add them to the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24621	Mr President. Mr Kummerer has just said here that I would have said that we in our community have no problems with the nitrate. I'll put it right: I said, although we have no local water supply in my community, I have no problem with nitrates in my house well.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24654	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24675	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is successful with a responsible, adapted and sustainable agricultural policy, which is geared towards all farms. Even in the future, we would like to go this way under Federal Minister Molterer. Comparison with other countries in Europe makes us sure. We have fewer jobs in agriculture in Austria than all other countries in Europe. Luckily, there is a side-by-side of full-time, in-service and part-time jobs. Austria has the highest share of organic farming and is therefore a pioneer in Europe. Austria is economical in the use of plant protection products and mineral fertilizers. But we are also in the lead when it comes to building up new developments for agriculture. Rural development is currently forcing the use of biomass, regional marketing initiatives and the rural services market. Investments in regional food markets in particular are an opportunity to market products with increased value added and thus offer farmers more income. The demand of the Greens to promote and develop organic farming through anchorage in the Agricultural Act is well meant, but does not bring us any further overall. As a Tyrolean, I would then have to say that the holiday at the farm plays a major role with us, and we also need to anchor it in the agricultural law, or about 70 000 machine ring farmers, which are available in Austria. It cannot and must not be that organic and conventional farms are divided in a sectoral way, but rather we need mutual understanding in agriculture. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wednesday]] Not conventional business is bad and organic farming is good, we both need to meet the diverse requirements of the market that the future brings. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] In the past, 20,000 farmers sought their chance in organic farming. Unfortunately, some have been disappointed. Increased effort, rising requirements and too little sales thus brought less income. Even the multi-quoted bio-promotion could not compensate for everything. Thus, a number of farmers have justifiably gone out, and a anchoring of organic farming in the Agricultural Act will not bring it back again so quickly. Without new sales opportunities, we will find it difficult to motivate farmers to produce organically. So we need new strategies, adapted concepts to stimulate organic farming in Austria. A single biomark can optimize the market presence, trade, but especially the consumer wants less, but reliable brands. New markets such as public institutions, nursing homes and hospitals should increasingly use bioproducts. Bioproducts are also an interesting market for wellness and health. But we need a new understanding of food. Not the cheap price, but the quality must be a priority. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] Thus, a legal anchoring of organic farming does not bring us further, but demand for products, which the market requires, targeted marketing, but especially from the point of view of farmers, fair producer prices for organic products. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] Federal Minister Molterer and his team guarantee that the importance of organic farming in Austria will be preserved and will be expanded in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24753	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24775	Mr President. Federal Minister! Let me begin by saying that, of course, one should try to deal with these applications in the form of a common approach. But I think it's wrong to pretend that in Austria everything is all right, as if there were no nitrate problems, no pesticides problems. We have all these problems, of course, because there have also been measurements that there are regions in which groundwater has been proven 200 milligrams and even 300 milligrams. It may well be that this is an individual case and someone who lives close to it has no problem, but there are problems in the region and the areas of rehabilitation have not been declared areas of rehabilitation because, for example, the Federal Minister has not yet adopted a regulation on measures, although the Water Law has been very well amended. What I would like to say: There should be no contradictions, but it is the wrong way to produce and say: We are glad that we are not like the others who produce so badly. It is an effort to get a real market chance on a quality rail, and this also includes differentiations, which ultimately also shows up in the price and in the various forms of further processing. All of this is not the problem, my very appreciated ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going any further if we act as if there were no way to improve. There are, in fact, many possibilities for improvement. Let us ask ourselves why we do not come to a common animal welfare law in Austria. – Because there are different ideas for farm animals in the individual Länder. No one can tell me, however, that Salzburgers can indeed have a completely different way of thinking than the Lower Austrians and vice versa. This cannot be the case if one wants to assume uniform standardisation. I would like to believe that such standardisation would be important, for example on the issue of pesticides, which is repeatedly being discussed here. It is not a good sign when a federal country raises the limit values for atrazine from 0.1 to 0.2 because it cannot meet it. In the end, we are going together to meet quality standards that serve us crediblely as a trademark in Europe. That's the decisive thing. I therefore regard today's debate as a start, but it is also being led in a wrong direction by many, because it is not a priority to work out what it is all about, namely the partnership between agriculture and consumers. Such a partnership between agriculture and consumers is very clear, for example, in the drinking water sector. On the one hand, the consumer who has the right to sufficient drinking water, which can only be ensured if on the other hand agriculture produces accordingly and thus ensures that this water is fed to human consumption with these low loads. I believe that this discussion should indeed be seen as an opportunity for us to go together on a path, which, as Mr Molterer has also mentioned, is based, for example, on land ties with animal husbandry, and on all that is ultimately an opportunity for Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that as long as we are just trying to push and put something on the other, we are not taking a step forward. In reality, we should consider this current discussion, whether it be about nitrates, whether it be about pesticides, or about land management, but as an opportunity. [[Abg. Donabauer: House garden management!]] Yes, house garden management. – It is simply about creating a consciousness that ultimately leads to our having the highest good, namely a toxic environment. And that's what it's all about! That is why I believe it is important to talk about a chemical law in Europe – it has come out in the last two months. We know, of course, that for chemistry, not only the third largest production sites exist and they have economic significance, but very much depends on chemistry. However, the objective of the application of chemicals cannot be to have a poisoned environment, but to enter into the production of high-quality products, thus avoiding the negative and taking advantage of the positive effects. That is why we need a new chemical law for Austria and for Europe as a whole, and in this direction the debate should also lead. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24812	The next speaker is Mr Pistottig. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24834	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Managing Director of a organic farming ring Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, here you recommend a set of measures for the ecological renewal of Austrian agriculture. They say: Bio-agriculture, priority for organic farming, consumers expect this. It is clear to me that I agree with you, just, you have already asked yourself whether consumers are also willing to pay for the more expensive production as well. That's where the whole problem lies. If today a housewife goes to the supermarket and gets a mass product from Holland offered and we expect her to buy organic goods at the triple price, then we will get a problem. Dear Mr Pirklhuber! In Their application 191/A reads in point 6 "to refrain from the use of genetically modified organisms and/or products based on them". Except for this, veterinary medicinal products are meant to be – this is what I think – or also certain types of fertilisers and soil improvers. – If we do not yet do so, why not also on these two. Then let's just give up on the two of them, and let's just leave it for the veterinary drugs. Since you cite what the pesticides are, as an example Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden, who have decided to reduce pesticides, namely halve in five to ten years, I should like to say to you that: Mr Pirklhuber, if they succeed in doing so, then consumption is still much higher than in Austria. They only have to imitate us! I would like to say today: We don't contaminate our own nest! Let's not make ourselves worse than we are! We have the OPUL programme. We have one of the best agricultural laws. Let us be proud of our strict pesticides laws! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have made renewals again today. Today we have adopted a revision of one of the best animal transport laws. The groundwater is largely in order. The forest is well maintained and healthy. All of Austria has canals. Is that in Venice or in Genoa? With us, even the last miner has a canal. That too belongs to the environment! Dear Mr Pirklhuber! Now I'm saying something: Just today it was mentioned that the people of Greenpeace explain to us what would be necessary for us. Only recently there was a scandal, the antibiotic scandal raised by the Four Pfotes. And I can ask you: Where's the result? Let us finally stop criminalizing our farmers! Let's guess their work, because they produce healthy foods! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With all friendship: I have a very thick act here. It's always called for. However, in such a brochure – like that of Greenpeace – I have not yet read once that the farmer must also have a chance to survive financially with his economy. Apparently, that doesn't interest anyone! But that is also necessary! I can tell you one thing: We in Austria are model students with our agriculture – I have said that here before – and this is also to be proved. But, of course, model students are struggling in such a circle, especially in the EU, because of course the production of a model student costs much more than if someone simply produces inconceivably. Such production is more expensive. I would like to ask you: In the opinion of these people, and even in your opinion, does the farmer or the forest farmer actually have a right not only to life but also to survival? That is also very important! Let us therefore leave the church in the village. If we are proud of our achievements, be proud that we are model students, be proud of our farmers and give them the chance to survive!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24907	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Müller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24928	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, we want our farmers to survive. However, we have a slightly different view: In particular, we want the many small farmers and the miners to survive a little better than the current funding practice! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] To get back to the subject: Of course, I am also clear – in the problem of plant protection products this is also evident in the international comparison – that, as in many areas, in agriculture, we are in the good foreground in this regard. But it has also been mentioned by colleagues Bauer that, of course, if we want to be the "Feinkosladen Österreich", we also have to try again and again to improve our position. Minister! Mr Pirklhuber and the Greens' request are very likely to address something in this area. I am a chemist myself, and there was once the bad slogan of the chemical industry: "All in life is chemistry." – That went well in the pants and made people suspicious! Pirklhuber, in his application, addresses an area of plant protection products and pesticides, as is the case with all environmental chemicals, which is a certain grey zone. I have now been concerned with the fact that the statements or statistics on this matter are not very reliable, not only with regard to the active substances, because we have a little more insight, but with regard to the additions that are actually the main part of the means that are composed with the active substances. In this context, there is a large grey zone. There is a 1996 report from Greenpeace or Global 2000 which highlights a lot. In a way, however, he is also one-sided, so I would like you to pay more attention to this problem on the part of your ministry! In my opinion, a good reason to shed light on this issue is the next one, so, as I believe, the sixth environmental control report, which is due at some point in time, so that we also know how these plant protection products develop. In connection with good effects, ÖPUL was spoken of today. I am not quite sure that this applies to plant protection products. I sometimes suspect that sinking amounts also have to do with having other active substances, which are no longer used in such large quantities, but which may in turn be a little more toxic. I note that alternatives are very likely to be considered in the plant protection industry. I use pheramon traps against food moths myself. It's a little different, too. So something is happening in this area. Of course, you always have to be aware that this isn't class for the moths, I wouldn't want to, but of course it's also connected to a lot of business. You have to see that too. One should seriously discuss the whole area, but perhaps also a little bit of kerf, without just painting black and white again and saying that one of them is going to destroy the farmers and the other only want to pay the farmers. I too believe that many natural substances will certainly play an important role in the context of plant protection products in the near future. Research is going in this direction. Federal Minister! I too believe that one should not say stereotype: We're not talking about genetic engineering at all! – You also have to look at that and then weigh it off. I believe that in Austria we should be careful that we do not find out in the broadest sense about biotechnology, which would probably be very painful. It is also necessary to discuss this area properly, perhaps there are cost-benefit considerations in this respect, perhaps something is changed and does not use any cruel plant protection products anymore. Federal Minister! I am also in favour of the fact that we are in principle creating more transparency in this area in the sense of the Greens. I also lack some transparency in this area. However, there is certainly a lot more possible in this regard. That is why I would ask you to pay particular attention to this particularly in the context of the preparation of the environmental control report.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e24989	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e25010	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have gained three sad findings during this debate. The first sad realization: Mr Pirklhuber! I believe you are saying that the use of pesticides, you would be ruling in this country of Austria, would be dramatically reduced, but not because you would be ecologically efficient, but because the farmers are dying in your way of ruling! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second sad realization: They are SPÖ politicians who prevent biological products from being used in Vienna hospitals. The third sad realization is a scandalous realization: While this Federal Government is trying to discuss and shape the future of agriculture in Austria, green Members outside demonstrate against this Federal Government. These green Members make good money, and that is really scandalous! Mr Pirklhuber! Please think about what stable is missing in Austria! – It’s not Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Once again, they exaggerate with the so-called good and reach the opposite! I say to you: The small healing world at world market prices does not exist! Orientation on what is reasonable and feasible in this world! Austria is a model in many areas. Competitiveness plays a very important role in the measures we put in place. Our farmers maintain our landscape, they manage our soil under difficult conditions, and many envy us about our small landscape of culture and nature. We liberals and this federal government will help us to ensure that farmers are no longer burdened and disadvantaged in the future. We will continue to work to ensure that measures are put in place within the framework of the European Union so that extensive land management can continue to be possible in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Moreover, we will also be committed to this, if the European Union does not put these measures in place and if it does not give the Austrian farmers the opportunity to think about the renationalisation of agriculture, because it is our concern that our farmers will survive with their quality products in this country Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I appeal to our consumers to place the quality of our Austrian products at the cheapest price! Make choices with your consumption, and choose Austrian quality products in the sense of our farmers! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e25085	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e25104	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since the end of the Haiden era and the time of agriculture ministers Joschi Riegler, Fischler and Willi Molterer, the successful Austrian agricultural policy has a name, ÖVP! [[Bravorufe and congratulation with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the liberals.]] I must emphasize and explain this this evening, because it sounds as if you had to reinvent agriculture in the speeches of some speakers of the half left and left half of the empire. – There is no reason or reason for that! You just need to listen to our Minister Willi Molterer – what you probably didn't do! – because the key to a successful future lies not only in the Austrian, but also in the whole of European agriculture in the sense and for the benefit of the entire population, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To Commissioner Biohuber – or did I misunderstand that? – or Pirklhuber and his request for a reduction in pesticides consumption in Austria: Austria has the lowest pesticides consumption throughout Europe. The Austrian environmental programme has contributed substantially to this. I would like to mention it again: It is referred to as ÖPUL and is a clear pesticides reduction programme, which, in its density, seeks to equalize farmers who participate in the whole of Europe, Mr Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] What you are asking for is an additional levy on these funds, does not mean anything but higher operating prices for the products concerned than we already have them in competition in this free market in Europe. What do you think this would lead to? – On the way to the Urwald instead of in the direction Keeping our extensive agriculture, which we so appreciate in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the free market, we need to highlight everything clearly according to economic criteria. What Austria suggests here is a European model to which others not only envy us, but that many will also imitate in the future! In this context, I welcome the fact that Minister Willi Molterer has been committed to this – and I would like to thank him in particular – that animal farming markets and auctions can finally be held again in the future. Especially in cattle farms it has been extremely extreme in the last few days: Due to the low price of the cattle and above all because of the absence of bovine farming auctions, the market has become totally paralysed, and the mood of the so important farming family farms was very on the ground. That is why it is very important for these markets to be able to take place again in order to make life and hope here again. These farms must survive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not about this Quasi event with regard to the promotion of small businesses! With this basic content, which you are always talking about, you would lead businesses to say that at some point people will have nothing but to say: I quit the management completely because I get the 8 500 s promised by the left half of the empire! – confused with it You have our policy with your ideology, and that is the wrong way! Our farmers will not be abused for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] My speaking time is coming to an end, and I would like to end by thanking our farmers in particular for having helped them considerably – and that is why the entire population in this country can be proud of it! – that we do not have an MPS in Austria and that Austria has also remained free from BSE! For this care and care, not only our farmers, but also the Ministry and our Minister for Agriculture, Willi Molterer, deserve special recognition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't do that! Has You're a problem with that? Be glad and clap with me! That's how it should be! Are we patriotic about this country? Why do you have to hide? You don't need to be afraid! Look at this. If, as yesterday and today in Upper Austria, one criticises with cow posters educational policy in Austria, on which black and blue cows are painted on a corresponding background, I say: It can't be! That's from the SPÖ! You somehow abuse the madry of cattle, and you are misusing the situation of agriculture for your propaganda! This will damage our agriculture! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would just like to say: While efforts are being made throughout Austria to stabilize the beef market, the SPÖ abuses the bovine issue for its own political purposes. Mrs Perfuss! Is this your animal protection you mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e25243	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We come to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Agriculture to take note of its report 568 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is decided by majority vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 569 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a sign. . This request is also decided by majority. Next, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Agriculture to take note of its report 570 of the supplements. Here again, in the case of approval, I ask for a sign. . I note that this request was also decided by majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the same committee to take note of its report 572 of the supplements. Here again, in the case of approval, I ask for a sign. . I note that this request has been accepted by the majority. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00069_d7e25316	I am still announcing that at today's meeting, requests 430/A to 438/A and questions 2422/J to 2444/J were received. The next meeting of the National Council will be held tomorrow, Friday, 9 a.m. The agenda will be presented in writing in the clubs; the meeting will begin at Question Time. This meeting is closed.
