ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3559	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you all, invite you to take the places and open the 74. National Council meeting during this legislative period. I announce that the official protocols of the 71st, the 72nd and the 73rd. Meeting of June of this year at the Directorate of Parliament, without any opposition, is therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's sitting, Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3593	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that Members Rosemarie Bauer, Dr. Peter Kostelka, Ing. Leopold Madethaner and – in the short term – Mag. Johanna Mikl-Lehner waived their mandates. In addition, the communication has obtained the power of Members. Heribert Donnerbauer, Renate Csörgits, Maria Rauch-Kallat as well as MEPs Mag. Johanna Mikl-Director of the National Council was appointed. The electorate of all four Members is available. Because the deputies are Mag. Donnerbauer, Renate Csörgitsand Maria Rauch-Kallatim House are present, we will immediately make the fishing draw; Mrs Mikl- Leitner is apologised for today and tomorrow, so her fishing observation will be carried out at a later date. I would ask you to rise from the seats and ask the writer, Mr Schweitzer, to lose the formula for fishing, to which the newly promised ladies and gentlemen, with the words "I promise" will make their fishing observation. Please, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3650	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." By name call by the scribe Mag. Mr Schweitzer, the Members mentioned below, made the following statement: "I vow." Renate Csörgits (SPÖ), Mag. Heribert Donnerbauer (ÖVP) and Maria Rauch-Kallat (ÖVP).
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3692	I warmly welcome the new members of the House in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3720	We will now arrive at the current hour at 9.04 a.m. on the subject: Results of the Gothenburg European Council The first speaker is Mr Spindelegger. A speaking time of 10 minutes is available to him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3752	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has chosen this topic for the current hour because, after the Council in Gothenburg, the question is: Where is it going in Europe, and where do we want to go as ÖVP, as Austria? At the outset, I can say clearly to my party that our answer to this direction-setting Europe is that we are in favour of enlargement of this Europe, because we believe that the peace and prosperity function of the European Union should be enhanced to a larger Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] . I should like to underline this for my group. We know that there are skeptics in Austria, too, that there are fears of the population, and we want to deal with them to the right degree, and we also want to respond to these fears and fears – but in the appropriate way. We believe that this enlargement is a great opportunity for us, but of course it must also be equipped with accompanying measures, because without them it cannot work. These accompanying measures are, as you talk about conditions in general, also obstacles which need to be taken simply and which you cannot simply push aside. – It is also very essential for us to formulate this in order to clarify how the way to this enlargement can lead. The first obstacle that all candidate countries must face is that they themselves must meet the conditions in order to be able to join. These conditions are clearly defined: In all the candidate countries, the Community must be taken into account in the legal system – without it. There are, of course, also conditions for these countries, which we want to negotiate for Austria in this enlargement process, because we know that it is very important for Austrians living near the border that these conditions are met. I refer here to the transitional periods for the free movement of workers, the transitional periods for services, the question also for the candidate countries of transitional periods for the free acquisition of land and the environment – it is certainly not possible to meet all the necessary standards in all candidate countries at the moment of accession. I therefore think that we must insist that this enlargement process is equipped with accompanying measures that will facilitate this step for both the Austrian population and the population in the candidate countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! During the Swedish Presidency, there was remarkable progress in this regard. I believe that Sweden has not only presented a presidency, as it has itself imagined, but that the Swedish Presidency has exceeded expectations on some issues, for example in the progress of negotiations with the candidate countries: There were a number of chapters that could be closed, there was already the opening of all chapters in some countries – that is more than expected in Sweden. I think that we must also pay our respects to the Swedish Presidency in this regard. That was a difficult task, especially under the conditions that have been added in recent weeks. For us Austrians, it was important in this context that it was also clear in the last six months that a breakthrough could be achieved in the question of the transitional periods for the free movement of workers. We want the different wage levels to be balanced over a number of years, so that it does not result in us being overrun in Austria by a daily commuting volume that we cannot handle. I would like to express my appreciation to the Chancellor and the Foreign Minister for the fact that they have achieved that the Commission has now taken over the negotiating position of a seven-year transitional period for the free movement of workers. That is the merit of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This has already been accepted by Hungary, which is a very important prejudice for the next negotiations with other candidate countries. I think that this has also made a very important obstacle for the Austrian population to a very satisfactory extent. However, the Swedish Presidency also had to fight with the Irish referendum, which brought a narrow no to the Treaty of Nice – surprisingly and not through the guilt of the Swedish Presidency. I think that the reasons for this need to be put on the table, in particular by the Irish, but it is crucial for us how we deal with it. I would also like to find clear words here and say, on behalf of my group, that it would be wrong to simply wipe out the 524,000 votes of the Irish and say: You cannot stop the process in Europe! – That would be the completely wrong way. We must take it seriously, and that means that we must learn from it and also have to take consequences, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can bring some of the consequences we are considering into the discussion of this current hour. First: This vote has shown that it is not enough to speak a few weeks before a referendum on the text of the Treaty and the wording that was born in Nice. There is a need for a much more political discussion tailored to each country so that the population becomes aware of what a change in the Treaty means for them directly. This means to us Austrians: We should learn from the fact that in this enlargement process, we are beginning to constantly inform the public about what next steps are planned, what it means for them when this enlargement takes place, and what the accompanying measures look like. I am therefore really committed to the fact that the Federal Government is now immediately beginning to start this dialogue with the population within the framework of the Austrian platform. The first event in Gmünd, in which politicians also stood directly at the borders of the population, was a step on the path we have to go very consistently. This is the first conclusion we must draw from the Irish referendum in Austria as well. Secondly, We know the scepticism that exists in Austria, and we must respond to it. This scepticism about Europe often refers to institutions, because the impression that one is out of power, has no rights, someone is handed over. If we look closer, this does not appear to be right, but because of these feelings of many Austrians, we must also react in a way with arguments and with future rights that this impression can no longer arise in the future. I therefore believe that we should all strive in the post-Nizza process to equip the citizens of the European Union with rights, which they can also claim within the framework of Europe. I am thinking of constitutionally guaranteed rights, as we know them in Austria, which we can create at European level and which also give citizens the awareness that they have rights in Europe, which are also accusing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thirdly, we must also speak openly about what is currently too much on the table in Europe. We, the EIAs, agree that in the post-Nizza process we not only think about the competences of the European Union and the national states, but also the competences of the European Union, which are often very broad today, which sometimes contain general clauses for the benefit of the EU, are narrower and therefore a clear division of tasks between the EU and the national states. This is very crucial, and I believe that we should all strive to achieve this in the next treaty reform. I would like to address one last point: the involvement of national parliaments. National parliamentarians are closer to citizens than European parliamentarians because there are less of them. National parliamentarians also have a better sense of where citizens are anxious and concerned, so we should also give them a chance to participate in the European process. I personally think that we also need to put a communication rail to the Commission, for example, in the form of an interconnection law of the national parliamentarians to the Commission, so that arguments that may look different from the European point of view can be communicated directly from the Austrian point of view. I believe that we are on a good path in Austria, because this dialogue has now started well, and I am confident that in this way we can convince the Austrians of this enlargement process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3873	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke on the subject-matter of the current hour. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e3895	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Gothenburg has been a good, but also very disturbing, summit from both an Austrian and a European point of view, because for the first time since I was involved in it – which is now 30 or 35 European summits – to the extent that EU opponents have exclaimed, there have been anti-globalisation activists, as they have not yet been in recent European history. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be that Europe is bungling into hiding in meeting rooms, behind barbed wire and police signs, but must be the answer to that. However, this also requires a consensus of those who stand up for a good European idea and also make it clear that violence – in any form whatsoever, at any summit, whether in Gothenburg, Salzburg or Genoa – is not wanted, but is condemned by all of us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The summit was good because it put Europe's future discussion on an open platform for the first time in consensus. It was a lasting call for all four parliamentary parties in the Austrian National and Federal Councils to be discussed first, before an Intergovernmental Conference, in a general public, in a European and national public, the issues that are important to Europe. This is contained in the conclusions, and this seems to me to be a very important success of this summit in Gothenburg. An Austrian position has finally prevailed with others, and I think that is good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Göteborg was also good because the Irish referendum was taken seriously. It is not pleasant, I have already said that here, but the embarrassing slipper of an Austrian European parliamentarian who has explained – literally – that: This referendum of Ireland is the most political event since the fall of the Wall in 1989!, let us best pass by silence. Thank God this slipper in Europe was not heard too much. I hope he will not vote in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All the more important, the Austrian answer will be to speedily ratify the Treaty of Nice – a consensus of the Austrian parliamentarians – because this Treaty is the institutional requirement for much to be guided in the right direction, for national interests to be safeguarded, yet European progress is possible and enlargement is institutionally possible. The first meeting with American President George Bush and US Foreign Minister Collins Powell was also important. The day before, an EU-US summit with a very open debate also took place on the dissent in the Kyoto question. Here, the European Union's sustainability strategy, which was unanimously adopted in Gothenburg, is very important. She writes a insistence on the Kyoto goals and defines "sustainability" in such a way that we can really start something with it. For Austria, very important are those parts that deal with traffic. In the first drafts of the Swedish Presidency, it was only included that transport policy is only found in the sustainability strategy when it comes to avoiding traffic jams – that is a somewhat limited view of things, I think. The text, now jointly adopted in Austria, includes the complete internalisation of social and environmental costs, as well as measures to decouple the rise in the volume of transport from the growth of gross domestic product, and an Austrian initiative forces the Commission to propose a framework by 2004 to ensure that in 2004, i.e. in time after the current transit protocol, prices for the use of different modes of transport reflect better the costs for society. This is the first time we have fixed a date – that is not yet the solution, but for the first time we have a boot spoon that enables a European transport solution in the Austrian sense. Mrs. Vice-Chanzler, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Transport, went to Brussels to seek Austrian solutions in a sustainable manner, on the basis of these basic conclusions of the Gothenburg Council. I very much hope that they will be successful with the help and support of Parliament, because this is important for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as enlargement is concerned, Michael Spindelegger has already pointed out that, in fact, very surprisingly and quickly, very serious solutions were offered, which were far away at the beginning of the Swedish Presidency. He referred to the issue of the free movement of workers, i.e. the opening of the labour market. We have imposed a seven-year transitional period, which we can control on our own. In addition, in the field of services – a topic that concerns mainly small and medium-sized enterprises – Germany and Austria – and only these countries – have the right to also use a seven-year transitional period. And again: It is in our hand to exploit this frame or, if we feel the time is ripe to shorten this period. This is a great success and a concrete answer to just as specific fears of the population. – In this way enlargement can work, and in this way we want to continue with other difficult chapters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have already talked about transport and the environment – this is, of course, a very central issue in the enlargement process. Above all, it is also important to adopt the border regions. During the previous financial period, we succeeded in providing 6 billion Schilling exclusively for the border regions of Austria, now, for this financial period, we have also available 10 to 11 billion Schilling. This is the largest preparatory programme in the history of the European Union to make border regions fit for competition, which, of course, includes quite unpleasant risks, but at the same time also opportunities. I really appeal to the Commission that it also keeps the timetable for presenting its programme to strengthen the competitiveness of the regions as soon as possible, because this means that we have something in hand with which we can give people in the border region security that their needs are heard and realized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In bilateral terms, this meeting in Gothenburg has also brought us some very encouraging contacts. It is remarkable that there have now been bilateral visits to Austria or invitations to the respective Member States. Immediately after the Gothenburg Council, a first-class state visit by the Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker took place, which brought excellent results. It is very interesting – I would like to expressly acknowledge this here – that one week before the start of the Belgian Presidency of the Council in the EU, the Belgian Prime Minister Verhofstadt held the keynote speech in Austria at the Europa Forum in the Gottweig Foundation, and this has, of course, been a very conscious signal from the Belgian government to Austria to show: Normality is desirable, and it is possible! I would like to expressly respect and acknowledge this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is interesting to note that this does not result from undivided applause of all political groups. I would have thought that we all were happy about such positive signals from others for the red and white-red Austria. But be it as it may be, ladies and gentlemen. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was the Prime Minister of Serbia Zoran Djindjic, a long-standing friend of mine, here in Vienna – we already supported him in times when he was in the opposition – who has now enforced the extradition of Milošević. The man deserves respect, because this is an incredible achievement that will be noted in the history books, because this requires dictators to fear an objective and fair judgment once and for all, and that is good for the future of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Albanian President Ibrahim Rugova was in Vienna. We have handled the highly successful Salzburg World Economic Forum. There have been a number of other visits to Vienna in Gothenburg and visits to other countries of the European Union have been agreed. In short: a very successful intermediate step on the way to the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4033	We are going into the debate. All speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes each. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4057	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, I should like to answer a question that you have raised in your speech at this point: When Mr Spindelegger rightly pointed out that the Swedish Presidency has made significant progress in the negotiations on the enlargement process with its commitment and commitment, no one has applauded – the Swedish Presidency is not present, it will not suffer. When you, Mr Bundeskanzler, pointed out that the Belgian Prime Minister Verhofstadt made a statement here in Austria, the government groups praised. We, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have therefore not applauded this because it is not your merit, but that of the Belgian Prime Minister. – That’s the answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is very small sized!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that it is important, after Gothenburg and after the Irish referendum, to be very clear as to what is the problem of Europe and what problems we have to solve in the so-called post-nizza process. The Irish people have expressed their concerns. Although it took only a small part in the vote, the majority voted against the Treaty of Nice. In part, the concerns of the Irish people are about issues which are not directly covered by the Treaty of Nice, but about security. For example, the Irish population is largely skeptical of a development in which the EU could at all events become a military alliance, and this rejects the majority of Irish. The Irish also felt that their freedom could at all events be threatened or restricted and similar things more. I think that if we want the population – including the Austrian population – to be positive towards the EU and the processes of the further development of the Union and the enlargement of the Union, it must be able to feel in everyday life that it benefits the Union, then it must be able to feel in everyday life that decisions of the Union are not to its detriment. I think that is the essential point. Let me show you a few things. There has been talk here of enlargement and of significant progress being made in the Swedish Presidency. Among other things, it has also been possible, together with Germany, to achieve a seven-year transitional period for the Union as regards the free movement of persons. I also think this is a success, but this success alone does not yet bring it. What is necessary to make this success a success also domestically is that it becomes clear that the seven years only have a benefit if domestically controlled whether what is true at this time, namely, no free movement of persons, is also respected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To do this, we need a clear legal basis both domestically and an authority that takes over the execution, but also personnel who do so. Federal Chancellor! We from the Socialist Group made an offer to the government in February by saying: We are willing to take part in the process of enlargement together with the government groups, because we believe that this is also a very crucial process of stabilising peace in Europe, but we see certain needs to make arrangements in the country so that people can see that their concerns are being taken seriously. However, it is not enough if some members of the EIA and the Freeman make panel discussions in border regions, but it is necessary for concrete action to be taken, and for this to happen, these government requirements must be created. However, we do not see any actions or measures taken by the government. We must demand that appropriate qualification programmes be provided for, for example, those groups of workers who are under the pressure of enlargement, who are afraid of losing their jobs at all times. If we want not too many commuters to come to Austria, cross-border growth areas must be created, and this requires Austrian and European investment, not only in our countries but also in neighbouring countries. This is the prerequisite for not having to worry too much. We have made proposals to this effect, but we have no answer so far, indicating that you are very interested in accepting this cooperation. This is okay, you have the majority of governments, you can also rule alone. We're just going to tell you: We are concerned about people in this country, so we make concrete proposals and ask you to take concrete action and not just talk.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4114	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4135	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm always surprised by my colleague. Mr Ein! We have held together yesterday in a very detailed discussion that we will deal with exactly what you consider necessary and just said here together. The fact that we are going to try together to prepare our border regions for this accession is what we have put out of dispute. So don't pretend we don't have the common intention just because today the discussion is heard by several people! Sage She's like: We have reached agreement, we are doing this with each other because that is of overriding interest and all parties have the same interest in ensuring that the border regions can be prepared accordingly for this enlargement! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the previous speakers have already drawn out the positive results of the Gothenburg Summit and I do not love repetitions, I will deal with another aspect. These positive results, as well as other results, Mr Bundeskanzler, have not been properly achieved, such as the strategy for sustainable development or cooperation in the interests of peace and security, which has taken up wide scope there. These essential issues have been completely undermined, although they are of particular importance to the EU's citizens, because this summit – which should also be discussed – was marked by plastering demonstrators on the one hand and by disturbed EU grandeurs on the other. We should consider whether the gap between the powerful and the many EU citizens is not something we need to deal with in the near future. It is not the paving blocks of demonstrators who are causing me special concern – that is also Peter Kreisky, we have seen this now in Salzburg, but we are going to be done with them – but rather it is the many millions of people who are turning away from the European Union, ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned about the refusal to participate in what is happening at European level, the lack of participation, which is growing more and more. It was also expressed with the vote in Ireland that most of the population, for example, refused to participate in the European integration process. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We also need to discuss how to deal with this. This result of Ireland is not understood, it is mistrust. There is a gap between the European administration in Brussels and the citizens, which is rapidly getting bigger, ladies and gentlemen. Neither Chirac nor Schröder, nor Prodi and many others who spoke were well advised with their comments if they thought that the people could vote for so long until the result fits the EU's grand. That is not how it can be done, ladies and gentlemen. Erwin Zankel, a journalist of the "Little Newspaper", hits the nail on his head when he calls all those who have spoken out this way "necessary democrats". Emergency democrats will not be able to gain the trust of citizens. I believe that the crisis of confidence in the EU is not only prolonged, but is even heightened. Ladies and gentlemen! If there is ever to be a common Europe with the large majority of citizens, this European Union must be made much more transparent. It is important to discuss this: how we can make this European Union more transparent and comprehensible to the citizens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The citizens must also have the means to be able to decide on the essential issues, such as European integration and enlargement. This must take place with the involvement of citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have taken a first step with the Austrian platform to involve the citizens. But that's going to be too little. Citizens must also be able to decide on the future configuration of this EU, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. All those who correctly interpret the Irish vote must recognize that direct democracy has to be an important instrument in future decisions at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4221	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4250	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! In addition to the important issues of the enlargement of the European Union, the Gothenburg European Council has discussed, in particular, sustainable development and European Union strategies. As a former Minister of the Environment, who was allowed to negotiate the chapter on the environment from 1992 to 1994 in the course of the accession negotiations with the European Union, and as the Secretary-General of a party which, 12 years ago under the then supervision of Josef Riegler, raised the eco-social market economy to its principle, I am pleased to hear that this principle should now be taken up at European level and the European level committed to this principle. The most important thing in these discussions, however, was that Austria managed to achieve a significant breakthrough in the transport chapter on the basis of an initiative by our Federal Chancellor. The chapter, which was originally not intended for sustainable development, is now firmly anchored in the area, which is one of the strongest within pollution, not only in terms of CO2 emissions, but also in terms of pollution, and it has been achieved that full internalisation of social costs and environmental costs can be promoted. It is also necessary to take very specific measures to decouple the increase in the volume of transport from GDP growth and in particular to call for a shift in road transport from road to environmentally friendly modes of transport. It was also an Austrian success, an inspiration from our Federal Chancellor, that the chapters Energy, Transport and the Environment in the 6th. Framework programme for research and development will be properly taken into account. In addition to the economic and social dimension, the environment has been established as the third and equal dimension of the Lisbon process, thus enriching the success model of the social market economy by this third dimension of the eco-social market economy. The European Union has also committed itself to defining policy guidelines for promoting sustainable development in the future at the Spring Conferences and, in particular, calls on Member States to develop their own national sustainability strategies and to establish comprehensive national consultation processes in this area, which is of particular importance also with regard to the candidate countries in enlargement. Austria has, by the way, already complied with this by drawing up a Green Paper for an Austrian strategy. The European Council also supported the Commission's work on a draft on the labelling and traceability of genetically modified organisms, at the express wish of Belgium, which has clearly set its priorities for its presidency. It was also very important that this Council debated the Kyoto Protocol that the European Council reaffirmed once again its commitment to put this into force in 2002 and to establish special high-level contacts with Japan in order to bring this country to a clear pro-Kyoto line despite the US resistance. It is also important that, for example, the Council has committed itself to covering 22% of the total Community electricity consumption from renewable energy sources by 2010 – something that Austria already overshadows – and that, in particular, the nuclear energy still listed in the Commission communications is no longer present in the conclusions. Sustainable agriculture was also an essential issue. Austria can be proud that it has succeeded...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4299	Please take note of the speaking time, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4314	... to have no BSE case and the highest proportion of organic farming in Europe for more than 100 000 tests.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4344	Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4366	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rauch-Kallat, let me first take a look at your opinion. If you are now practically the sustainability strategy as It seems to me to be very strange and, in some way, ridiculous to me, to sell the merits of the EIAs in the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat, where would Austria be if we had actually had an eco-social market economy? – Then we would not only have 10 percent organic farmers, but a lot more. Where would Austria be if traffic policy had actually taken place a turn from road to rail? – Then there would be, for example, a rapid and direct link between the European capitals, which are closest to each other, namely between Vienna and Bratislava. However, there is no such thing as this, and it is not intended that it should exist in the near future. This railway link is not yet available. Let me also make a few comments on Mr Schweitzer's comments. Mr Schweitzer! Here you have accused an Austrian who demonstrated in Salzburg for environmental and social responsibility of companies, Mr Peter Kreisky, of throwing stones. This is typical FPÖ strategy: Publicly criminalise people who cannot defend themselves, criminalize people who are against something, which should also be your concern, namely against the unbridled globalisation and the social and environmental responsibility of companies. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] – This is the policy of the liberals: They criminalize people for no reason! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But certainly not throwing stones!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why don't you distance yourself?]] Let me now come to the Council of Gothenburg. I very much welcome – and this is also a merit of the Swedish Presidency – the fact that the candidate countries have finally been called a date for possible accession to which they can rely – a date, that is, the conclusion of negotiations by the end of 2002, a date that is also a date for participation in the 2004 European elections. This is also to be welcomed by the Greens. That should have been a lot earlier. It is also to be welcomed that a sustainability strategy has been adopted, and I say that this is a first step, because a real turn in energy policy, a change in transport policy, a change in nuclear policy is not visible. Now we come to the individual points. Mr Spindelegger and you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have once again defended the regulation of the seven years of free movement. You have praised this as a reasonable solution in your reactions to Gothenburg, Federal Chancellor. Mr Spindelegger presented it here as a merit of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's right, too!]] Federal Chancellor! You know very well that this is not a reasonable solution. A few months ago, Mr Ein and Mr Gusenbauer also said from the SPÖ that they would not actually agree with the seven years. In the meantime, you too from the SPÖ are unfortunately on the line that you say these seven years are all right. For us Greens, these seven years are not a reasonable solution, both economically and as a signal to the candidate countries. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You know very well that these seven-year transitional periods are not necessary, for example, for Slovenia. A second one: The Liberals call for a referendum on enlargement. The Federal Chancellor says that this will not happen with him. Federal Chancellor! "I hear the message well, I alone lack faith!", has already said Goethe's Gretchen. Federal Chancellor! You have once said something that has not been true afterwards. You once said – and this has not been so long ago –: If the ÖVP becomes third party in the National Council election, then go to the opposition. We know that many people believed in you, but after that it turned out that you didn't tell the truth and acted differently. Federal Chancellor! How can the people now believe that there will not be such a referendum with you? [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Don't do it anyway!]] How will the small government partner in this government prevail if there are constant cross-scores when special paths of enlargement policy are constantly required, for example, when a veto is required for the accession of the Czech Republic because of the Beneš decree? – The Lower-Austrian Neo-Landesrat, Mr. Windholz, who has been very well-known in other words, calls for a veto on the Beneš decrees. My colleague, Mr Glavischnig, will address the Veto campaign at Temelin.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4458	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4474	Veto campaigns, referendum campaigns: Federal Chancellor! Where is your enlargement policy? Where is your commitment in a joint declaration with the FPÖ that there will not be all of this? – We expect that from you! This is what we expect in the direction of a positive and constructive enlargement policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4510	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4531	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with all those who believe that Gothenburg's main outcome is that the enlargement process in the EU is irreversible. The fact that the final declaration has made it possible to end negotiations with the most advanced countries at the end of 2002 with the aim of being able to participate in the 2004 European elections is a clear signal to enlargement. It may be more than some have hoped for, but it is above all more than some have feared, because, according to the outcome of Ireland, many of these countries have meant that the EU would now be more reluctant in questions of enlargement. I am glad that we Social Democrats are glad that this attitude has come to Göteborg. We acknowledge that the enlargement process should be irreversible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second main issue was the development of the EU, the democratisation of the EU, i.e. the entry into the referendum in Ireland. The comments are also very clear in this direction: "The Time" has titled it like this: The No of the Irish forces the democratisation of the EU! The NZZ says that only more citizens in the EU will really find a solution here, and the Federal Chancellor has also referred to it in his contribution. It is clear that in view of this second key point, it will be necessary to find a clear division of competences between the EU and the Member States in the future and to better involve national parliaments. Mr Jung and I were only at a meeting of the European Parliament a few days ago. In this context, it may also be noted that it would be desirable for the European Parliament to consider national parliaments more strongly as partners and not to take advantage of them. In this context, however, it is also important to simplify the completely unclear European Treaties and, of course, the Charter of Fundamental Rights. The result and the debate will therefore also lead to the democratisation of the European Union, and this will be a good thing for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third point, which is of great importance to me, is that in Gothenburg it has become clear that the EU must also develop its contacts with the United Nations, that it is clear that there must be better cooperation, and that the European Union recognises that the United Nations Security Council is the primary responsibility for maintaining peace and security in the world. In this context, of course, a great deal has also been said about the new American attitude – the announcement of the ABM Treaty. I am very pleased with the clear and clear words of our President, who, during his visit to Moscow, committed Putin that the announcement of the Treaty could endanger stability. This visit was important and certainly also helped to find a better basis for conversation. Finally, a comment on Mr Spindelegger, who called the event in Gmünd as a contribution to the proximity of citizens and also to cooperation. I wonder if it really is a contribution to cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, if there are the following speakers at the opening event in which we want to signal common interest: Mrs Foreign Minister – that is clear – the head of state of Lower Austria – that is also clear – and then also three people, namely an ÖVP Council of State and two representatives of the Freedom Party. This is not a signal that we are working together here, but it is rather a signal that this platform is being used as a black and blue initiative!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4581	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4618	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Considering the European Council meeting in Gothenburg from the point of view of Austrian media coverage, there are two circumstances first of all: first of all, the militant resistance of thousands of EU opponents, who are massively strengthening from summit to summit. Among the demonstrators – that was clearly to be seen – there was a hard core of disguised and autonomous left-wing extremists, who were primarily responsible for the outpourings in Gothenburg and the scratches we saw. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you think it was left-wing extremists? Maybe it was right-wing extremists!]] Secondly, the conclusion expressed and already quoted at the end of the meeting, which is: The Easter enlargement is irreversible. The No of the Irish to the Treaty of Nice is an Irish problem and does not stop us on the issue of enlargement. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government is not acting as dissociated and not as remote as some politicians in some neighbouring countries of the European Union. How quickly this government is able to draw the right conclusions, we have already seen last weekend in Salzburg. We were witnesses to the fact that the Austrian security forces at the World Economic Forum in Salzburg have been able from the beginning to ensure the safety of the conference participants. So in the Ministry of the Interior you have drawn the right conclusions and the right lessons from the street battles of Gothenburg. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The information policy of this government also shows that it is better than other governments. Today's current hour in this Parliament proves that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is fully informing Parliament and the public about the Gothenburg Summit and thus preventing a gap between the government and the population due to any lack of information, as we have seen in Ireland. What disturbs so many Austrians in Brussels politics is that the arrogance of the powerful, who are constantly being expressed, is damaging and threatening our joint Europe project. This disdain, which certain EU politicians have given to the Irish referendum, this Irish No to the Treaty of Nice, is, in fact, totally damaging to the idea of Europe. It is therefore damaging to Europe because it drives many inconsistencies directly into the camps of EU opponents. Once the individual citizen gets the feeling, he no longer hears, but always gets lucky, and to be congratulated from above, he will turn away, and the project of European agreement will fail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must be clear to every reasonable thinker: Without Ireland, the Treaty of Nice cannot enter into force at all, even if, as envisaged in Gothenburg, the negotiations with the most advanced candidate countries should be concluded by the end of 2002. The Treaty of Nice regulates institutional reform in the EU and is therefore the prerequisite for enlargement. Europe with a well thought-out and well-planned enlargement would have a great opportunity to finally become a great power, not just in the economic field. After decades of division by the Iron Curtain, capital cities such as Budapest, Prague, Prussia and Warsaw could again become central European metropolises and move closer to the geographical centre of our continent. Western and Central Europe, I believe, also have a certain moral obligation towards those peoples who have suffered for decades under real socialism, as Communism has been called. The fact that Austria is particularly interested in it for historical reasons is self-evident that we do not want to have an overhated, poorly prepared enlargement, which would only have disadvantages for all, but is equally clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4665	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4687	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a replica of fellow arbitrators. Mr Schieder, what you said about the opening event on the Austrian platform in Gmünd, especially that you were mounting that the opposition would not have been invited, is not true. ==References== June received the invitation to this opening event with the request for participation in Klubobmann Kostelka and in Klubobmann Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Schieder: To a conversation with Mr. Newald! For a conversation with Mr. Newald! For a conversation with Mr Newald on the second!]] I have the original letters here. You can see her. Mr. Schieder! I firmly reject your allegations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Starting with Mr Bundeskanzler, a number of colleagues have then referred to an aspect relating to large congresses, to international meetings, to which I would particularly like to address, namely the issue of security in this context. Whether Nice, Gothenburg or Salzburg in particular – we all got the pictures delivered to the house via television. We were all affected. Salzburg in particular – which I would like to mention at the outset – was the great exception. I would like to express my express thanks to the Minister of the Interior, the 3 000 officials, who have provided guarantees for the people of Salzburg and for increased security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The position of the EIA in this context as regards demonstrations and the right to demonstrate itself was always clear: yes to peaceful demonstrations. The right of demonstration was fought and decided here in Parliament. That's what we're standing for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But a decided, clear, decided no against violence, against Randale, against aggression, as we had to recognize it in Salzburg, for example, by a small core. The demand for a comprehensive EU-wide coordination against violent perpetrators is what I am calling for, and we urge our Minister of the Interior to take the appropriate precautions in the context of his conferences with the other EU Ministers for the Interior. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm asking: But who were the perpetrators in Austria? Who have they been in Salzburg in particular? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I saw Kreisky!]] – Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this has to be said here in the House is clear: It was an action community consisting of SPÖ, Communists and Greens. [[Puppet's call to the liberals.]] The left block of this house was the one that made Randale in Salzburg. We strongly reject that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is documented in the Austrian high school – socialist students, communist students, green students – what manifests itself in the anti-temelin demos – socialists, communists, greens – was once again observed in Salzburg. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: And black heads of state! And black heads of state!]] This is the block that stands for violence in Austria and not for non-violence! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now I could ask the Chairperson of the SPÖ whether he knows the good sense of Burgenland: Like the Lord, like the Gscher! - I suppose he knows him. After all, it is he who has been the great model when he then kissed the ground in Moscow and called "home", and now the left young socialists do it after him. What, for example, do the Vienna-based young socialists learn? – GDR fighters! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Gusenbauer! The young socialists in Vienna, in Lower Austria, in Burgenland, learn GDR fighters with the following texts: Say hello to the friend, the Communist, who is faithful to us! Greeting the far-off freedom fighter! Greeting and solidarity!" Or: "Now the power is recognized by us, the strong weapon of our hand! Hit it, young guard of the proletariat." [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Or: "Youth fighting doesn't frighten death! Get up, brothers, comrades, take hold of the weapons, and shut up the ranks." This is what young socialists in Austria are learning, East German troops from a time that we have long believed to have overcome! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So what is the current SPÖ Guard, a caster and a cap, the former iron city declaration of the SPÖ, in which it clearly and clearly defined itself against the Communists? - She doesn't do that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I say: Cap and casting builders stand for another, for a clear line, and this is: Forward, comrades, back to the past!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4829	For business treatment: Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4850	Mr President. It is an attack on the political culture in this House if these falsehoods are spread, and I strongly wish to protest against them.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4889	Ladies and gentlemen, I am clear that this was not a word on business treatment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has to learn first!]] In the course of the debate, the Federal Chancellor has spoken. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4918	Ladies and gentlemen! The debate has revealed a number of points to which I would like to comment. First of all, Mrs Lunacek's remarks: It may have been wrong, but no date has been decided in Gothenburg. The texts are identical to what was decided in Nice on enlargement, namely that we hope that the most advanced countries will be able to participate in the 2004 European Parliament election in the negotiations. Honestly, like Joschka Fischer, who said that in the German Bundestag just as well, I think that we finally got away from this date fetishism. Now we are on a very interesting, constructive approach. Chapters will be dealt with, and solutions will be offered at last, instead of just discussing an abstract date that cannot be the same for 13 candidates. In my opinion, this is a great step forward. Secondly, to the transitional periods: I consider this to be a very good solution to the difference of some of you, and I also believe that we have reason to be a little proud of this solution. After all, it is not only the common position of the 15, it has already officially agreed to three candidate countries, namely Hungary, Slovakia and Latvia. The regional partnership with our neighbouring countries, set up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is also proven. I know that two other candidate countries are right ahead of the agreement to this common EU position. The position of the Greens may be subjective, but I think it is far from the mainstream of how the negotiations actually develop, and it is, I believe, well that you know, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] On the comments of the honourable Member: I didn't want to go home for Guy Verhofstadt. I invited him, that's right, and he wouldn't have come without an invitation. I also wanted to set a visible sign from Austria that we together respect this gesture. This praise to Guy Verhofstadt, the current EU Council President, could be a positive red-and-white-red gesture, which really hurts no one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The last point, to the referendum: Mrs Lunacek! You know my position. You know that at the end of the day we will present individual accession agreements to the National Council. Each treaty is ratified individually – if necessary, where constitutional provisions, even with two-thirds majority, where not, by simple majority. I also consider it highly problematic and questionable if we are already talking about constitution and international law, because it is not possible to hold referendums on state agreements. But please, if you look in one direction now, I would like to raise the look a little: The first proposal for a referendum came from the Social Democratic Enlargement Commissioner Günter Verheugen. He has, for this I would say, rightly not only reaped praise. The second proposal came from SPÖ President Gusenbauer, who called for a referendum at European level in an exclusive interview with the "Kronen Zeitung". In other media this was then presented as unrealistic. Her own chairman, Professor Van der Bellen, has explained very ambivalently in the "time in the picture" – I have seen that myself: You can put any question to the people, and he wouldn't be afraid of it. That is where my line is the clearest and clearest, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4974	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e4995	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! I have to say a few words about the statements made by Mr Kiss – I actually wanted to talk about something quite different. From my point of view, it is an incredible diffamation if you repeatedly question fundamental rights, civil liberties. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who questions this?]] I find it remarkable that you constantly defame the right of demonstration, the right to freedom of expression in such a way that it is almost unbearable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you always assume violence and emphasize it, then it is incredible. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Your family members are beating the police!]] I would now like to say one more thing: There are also black national leaders who claim the right to demonstrate freedom. There are also freedom-wing national leaders who fly to demonstrations with helicopters. Is this all the left, violent, red-green mob in Austria? - That's ridiculous! [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I would like to tell you that this is at risk of a very important principle in Austria, and I think that no one should leave this ground: namely that in Austria we have had a right to freedom of expression, a right to freedom of expression for several decades, and these rights are inviolable. I ask you to accept this at last. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! Just a few little things, I don't want to spread out details now. Inconsistencies that remain on the table were already present in the Göteborg follow-up story, and I would have expected a clarification from you today. It is noteworthy that in all the speeches by the government group one of the most burning issues has not been addressed as regards EU enlargement and our relationship with the neighbouring countries seeking accession to the European Union, namely our relationship with the Czech Republic and the problem of Temelin. Federal Chancellor! They have given a clear understanding in Gothenburg, there would be no problem and the energy chapter would be closed. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] You then said in retrospect: That was a misunderstanding. Prime Minister Zeman expressed it differently. So I wonder, What is the line of the Austrian ÖVP abroad? Is this a different thing than home? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No!]] Is there a gap between these statements? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No!]] What is the Austrian position on this question? If I look at the government line, I have to say that this EU enlargement question with regard to temelin is a zigzag course compared to that. To be mentioned is the Freedom Party, which initiates a popular desire against itself in the government – which is no longer comprehensible – which has clearly forgotten that it is equally responsible for environmental policy, for foreign policy, for EU policy, that it is in the government, has responsibility for anti-atomic policy, which has completely forgotten it and gives the impression that it is a citizens' initiative that misuses the democratic means of popular desire for xenophobic expressions towards the Czech Republic. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How many billions are to be sent to the Czech Republic? How many billions are to be sent to the Czech Republic?]] It's very much my heart. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] It is an essential, misunderstanding and abusive use of a democratic instrument when a government party initiates a popular desire against itself, so to speak, and all of this on the back of environmental and foreign policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have a complete lack of guidance and a complete chaos as regards this important foreign policy issue. There has been no clarification in this context today, neither of the liberals on the one hand nor of the ÖVP on the other. So it is in no way comprehensible how our position is towards the Czech Republic, and that is a disaster that is both foreign and environmental. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How many billions after Temelin? How many billion are we supposed to send to Temelin?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! That's a very serious thing. They abuse a very essential and important concern of the Austrian population. They abuse environmental policy for an anti-foreign, xenophobic mood, and this must be stated clearly. They're not about Temelin in any way! [[New calls to the liberals.]] Temelin is quite sluggish to you on this question, because in other contexts it is very clear what you are really talking about on this whole question. We have a very clear line: We want the Czech Republic to join the European Union as quickly as possible. This is a historic project for many reasons: economic policy, peace-political, and it is also extremely important to the environment and it is necessary that this goes over the stage as quickly as possible. But we also want Temelin to be turned off. We want an exit, and that is why our proposal was the only consistent one: a gesture, a trust-building measure, an exit offer, negotiations on an exit offer, and not threats that in no way lead to anything, except to an uplifting of the mood and a xenophobic exploitation of an environmental problem. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 24 billion? 24 billion?]] I want you to admit what's really important to you. They want to prevent Czech accession to the European Union and...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5169	Please put to the end, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5184	... do not prevent Temelin. That's your real intention! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5217	This explains – after 75 minutes – the current hour for ending. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5239	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I may refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room in accordance with § 23 of the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5450	Before entering the agenda, I announce that Mr Deputies Mr Van der Bellen asked for urgent consideration of the written question of the Green Group 2629/J to Mr Bundeskanzler concerning reforms rather than cleansing before entering the agenda. Under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5476	I also announce that under § 33 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dr. Cap has requested that an investigation committee be set up to clarify the accusations relating to cash flows and manipulations of the award procedure in the course of the award of the delivery order on radar installations to the Austrian Federal Army in 1994 and 1995, to clarify a possible influence by the then Minister of Economic Affairs and now Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsslauf on the award of contracts to Thomson, to clarify the accusation of the acceptance of commissions by persons involved in the award and to examine the legal and political responsibilities relating to this matter. In this context, there is also the request made by five Members to hold a debate on this request. As we have planned the negotiation of the urgent question at 3 p.m., the debate on this request for the establishment of an investigation committee and the vote at the end of the meeting, i.e. more precisely, after completion of the agenda, will take place. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5507	I have the proposal to sum up the debate on points 1 to 4, 7 and 8, 9 to 13, 14 and 15 of the agenda today. On the other hand, are there any objections? – This is not the case, so we will proceed in this way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5528	Now let us go into the agenda of today's meeting. I announce that consensus was reached at the Presidential Conference on the duration of the overall debate, as follows: A day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 195 minutes, Free and ÖVP per 145 minutes, Green 115 minutes. In addition, with regard to the direct broadcast of the ORF, which will run until 1 p.m., there is a voluntary agreement between the political groups to proceed in the following ways: We are starting with a round of speakers, i.e. one speech per group, from a maximum of 15 minutes each, to which, if desired, the speech of a member of the government is followed by a maximum of 15 minutes. A further round of speakers will then be followed each time one word is spoken per group of 10 minutes and, if desired, another word from the government bank with a maximum of 15 minutes. After that, a speech per group of 10 minutes will follow and, if desired, a statement from the Government Bank with 5 minutes. The further debate would then take place in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The High House has to be found on the definition of speaking times. I am therefore asking whether there is any objection to this proposal. This is not the case. This will be decided unanimously and will be applied in this way. 1. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (1/716 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (620 of the Supplements): The Federal Act establishing a child care fund law and the Family Allowance Act 1967, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Parental Insurance Act 1979, the Parental Care Law, the Land Labor Law 1984, the Carnation Money Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Bridging Aid Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Labour and Social Court Law, the Karenz Leave Money Act and the Code of Execution, and on Request 33/A (E) by Georg Schwarzenberger and comrades concerning the payment of benefit for all – extending the entitlement to leave to all mothers (fathers) and converting the allowance into a family benefit (715 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammerund comrades on child care (718 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5631	The debate on points 1 to 4 of today's agenda is under one. Is there a request from the rapporteur for oral reporting? – This is not the case with any of the templates. That is why we are going into the debate at once. The first speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. His speaking time is 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5662	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is urgent that we have a debate in the House on the situation of the Austrian families, because after 16 months of the politics of this German government, the situation of the Austrian families has deteriorated considerably. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which country are you talking about? Which country are you talking about?]] The balance sheet of the Federal Government – Mr. Westenthaler, you can read it everywhere – with the burden slavery against the families is endless. When we talk about how the incomes of the families have developed, we need to find out – you can read this; [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Two Edlinger load packs! Two edellinger load packs!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: They didn't exist!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are reading, I hope, powerful – that Austria is now the absolute final light in terms of income development in the European Union. This is true of most families, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the last one and a half years, rents have been increased, energy prices have been greatly increased, the Federal Government has introduced self-retaining. Ambulance fees and tuition fees have been introduced – all massive burdens in billions for the Austrian families. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the latest data on the development of inflation in Austria, you can see: Life for the Austrian families has become enormously expensive. Mr Westenthaler! Does it matter to you that the prices of food for the Austrian families have increased dramatically over the last few months? Do you care that the heating costs were higher this winter than ever before? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The electricity costs are falling!]] Do you really care that the health expenditure of the Austrian families is higher than ever before? – It does not matter to us social democrats because we are talking about the fate of families and not about your power policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If a family policy measure is to be adopted today, the question must be asked: What have the Austrian families done in advance? – If a measure is adopted today, which will spend up to 17 billion shillings in the first phase and up to 10 billion shillings in the final phase, one must say: This is only part of what Austrian families have had to pay to the Minister of Finance and to this Federal Government through your tax policy, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question is, therefore, whether all families who have been so heavily burdened over the last 16 months are getting something through this family policy measure. If you look at the details of your proposal, you will find that it will be a subgroup, namely the future Austrian families. You will be delighted, at least part of it, that they get more money, but the vast majority of the Austrian families – those families that already have children today – will not get anything by their measures. Therefore, the material situation of the 1.8 million children already living today will not change, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This is unfair, because if you are already taking money in your hands, you should help those who have burdened you quite massively in the last 16 months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They bring in the child care allowance and take out the karenz money. That makes a difference for many. [[Abg. Haller: We replace it with something better!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This will get more! That's right!]] In this model – I would ask for your appreciated attention! – are a few cases that should not be avoided from the Austrian public. By the loss of family allowances, this means in future that almost half of all former care providers will receive less money through the introduction of the childcare allowance and the abolition of the care allowance than before, ladies and gentlemen! The second point, which is of crucial importance to women in particular, is the fact that, on the one hand, it is expected that a woman or a man can use this childcare allowance for 30 months, but there is only 24 months for the protection of termination. That means: Either the man or the woman has to return to the profession after 24 months, and with that the duration is no longer three years, but two years, or the person or the person concerned is at risk of the cancellation protection being removed, that after these three years one no longer has the opportunity to return. This is not a good measure for women working in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They did not ask themselves at all what kind of support women or men need to take advantage of this childcare allowance if they want to return to the profession. However, the speedy pace of our time is that skills need to be maintained and renewed and therefore aid for re-entry into the profession is urgently needed. If you look at today's labour market situation, you can see that this is a very sensitive area, because Austrian workers demand more every year – more performance, more skills. But that means that all those who want to return to the profession need re-entry aid. It is precisely this re-entry aid, however, that does not appear in your bill. That is why this is a labour market case, ladies and gentlemen. You should think of women and not your ideology! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The new regulations, which you now provide with the child's allowance, make de facto impossible the very good part-time care, which has also been used. [[Abg. Zierler: How much percent?]] And for single women, child care is only an additional obstacle instead of the care allowance. Ladies and gentlemen! They have been guided by an ideology and are now finally caught in a debate within the government, who is allowed to take over the sponsorship over this childcare allowance. The solution you propose to us is a bad solution for the Austrian women and for the Austrian families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can rightly ask the question: What would be better? – We have put forward proposals on this matter [[Abg. Haller: A little late!]] We believe that the most important thing is the compatibility of family or child and profession! And if this is to be possible, you need the appropriate number of childcare places in Austria. There are currently 270 000 in Austria, but we need 370 000. [[Abg. Böhacker: What have you done for 30 years?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] If one invests a billion schilling for five years in the development of childcare facilities, the gap is possible in five years. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Well, you would have done it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For five years 1 billion schilling – and we no longer have a problem with childcare. Is that not worth the care of the children? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For those who have not heard the very good call made by Mr Ofner because of the noise, I would like to repeat it. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Schweitzer, Mag. Kukacka and Böhacker.]] He said: Why didn't you do that? – The truth is that the previous government has introduced a kindergarten billion, and the black and blue government has abolished these kindergarten billions! That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the second proposal. In view of the fact that the 1.8 million children living in Austrian families have been hit by the burden policy of this government, from the increase in rents to higher energy prices, the general price increase, the ambulance fees up to the study fees, throughout the width, it would be easiest to help all these families, which have been so burdened by the Austrian Federal Government, now that 10 billion Schilling is being provided. Our proposal is therefore to increase family allowances per year and per child by 5 000 s. That would be a real help for all Austrian families! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You have to decide whether you want to follow your ideological paths or whether you want to help the families in Austria! In the last 16 months, you have not helped the families, but you have burdened the families. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] With today you have the opportunity to reverse. But obviously you are not really interested in a debate on this, because for months ÖVP and FPÖ have reserved posters on which they now have a childish poster competition about who then has the sponsorship about the child money: the FPÖ or the ÖVP. Now you see these two posters all over each other. However, they have nothing to do with the FPÖ's election promises from the National Council election campaign or with an improvement in the situation of the Austrian families. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't poster, make good policy for the families! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, what is expressed by this is that one is not interested in a debate on it. Already weeks before the National Council decides the law before a discussion takes place in the Family Committee and here in the plenary, the supposed results will be documented. – Mr Khol, you are constantly saying that the opposition does not want to discuss with you that it is only fundamental opposition. But the truth is: The government does not want to discuss at all, it puts the results already before the House had the chance to decide on it. That is your concept of democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, the question arises: How will the 1.8 million children who are already living in Austria continue after this decision has been taken? There is no more money, and the government's tax policy will continue. How will it continue for those women who want to link up work and family, but will not continue to find those childcare facilities that they urgently need? [[Call to the liberals: Better!]] Federal Chancellor! What about the achievement of your objective of massively increasing the rate of female employment in Austria, so that, among other things, the pension system is secured? – With today’s law decision, which is one of the most expensive from the expenditure side, you do not create better opportunities for women in the profession or a better situation for families or justice for all those who have been burdened. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... the last 30 years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today is your last chance to reverse. Voices We ask you to create childcare facilities! Voices Let us ask for more family aid per year and child for 5 000 S! That would really help!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5967	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. [[Call: Oh! The shaker]] The same time, that is, 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5994	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My dear fellow ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Abg. Arbitrator: "Ministry Colleagues"!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It is interesting, Mr Gusenbauer: Let's try the truth! As you have been checking out the past years and carrying out annual accounts, Mr Gusenbauer: Undisputed is that if we hadn't had your financial ministers' debt policy for decades, every Austrian and every Austrian could have more in the wallet in the month of 7 000 S. [[Abg. Edellinger: After finally...!]] That is the truth, that has been your policy in recent years, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In view of this, you are here and complain about posters of the government parties! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Not at all!]] But I well understand that he complains about it, because whoever has nothing to place, can't place anything, as is the case with the SPÖ! You can't place concepts, I understand. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I also understand that empty posters are too expensive for you. But where your disbelief and your argumentation lead, you could already see today – this is very interesting! There was a news about the Austrian Press Agency that needs to be broken on the tongue. The SPÖ today announced a protest against child money, a powerful protest before Parliament. The corresponding APA message is exactly two sequences long and is as follows – listen carefully! –: "Children's money: Mini-Protest of SPÖ before Parliament's decision – Subtitles: After three minutes, the millstones rolled away. – Now the text: "No spectacular counterpoint to today's Parliament's decision to pay children's money has been successful in the early morning. For 8.30 a.m., on Wednesday before the Parliament, the "Action Mühlstein" – as it's called – had been "congregated." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Now it's going on: "Exactly three minutes later" – that must have been exactly at 8.33 a.m. – "in the absence of public and media interest, the "Mühlsteine" were rolled away and transported away at Nieselregen." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Congratulations, this has gone wrong, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, went well into pants, you have to say that once! [[Renewal cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are the actions of the SPÖ, which no one takes seriously because of your disbelief. Mr Cap, who is sitting here for the first time today as a executive clubman, has therefore made a dazzling false start – not only this action has failed, but also his first, his very first report to the Rules of Procedure had to be corrected by the President, because she was not at all a report of the Rules of Procedure! – Mr Cap, I say to you: They tied seamlessly to your predecessor's policy, under the title: Pour, bad luck and pans here in this house. That's what we've seen today. I'll tell you something. Today, this is just the beginning of a "success story" of my colleague Cap: wrong Rules of Procedure, "Action Mühlstein" – SPÖ between and below the millstones! [[Abg. Grabner: ORF, Westenthaler-Klage!]] Mr. Cap, you don't have to try at all to bring the record time of your plea, bad luck and pan policy into the Guinness Book of Records. Today, in the Guinness Book of Records, this page has already been published by the editors in the "Guinness Book of Records", under the title "Pleen, Pech and Pannen". That is what you owe to your group. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now it is probably the most important decision of today, namely on child benefit. ==References====External links== July celebrated as Independence Day, as an independence day. It is very nice that we are creating here today a little more independence and freedom of choice for Austrian women and families. [[Abg. Disgustingly, this is the thing!]] We are thus at the end of a long journey after years and decades of discussion on family policy. Now it has finally done this government – the reverse government that you see only black, which you just make bad all the time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] Yes, 6 000 S for families per child for three years per month, and for all, for all, what you didn't want to do, also for housewives, also for students, even for self-employed, even for minor employees, even for farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to this government, the families in Austria receive much more and much longer children's money than under any SPÖ government before – this is a great success that we are celebrating here today! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is a great throw and also a proof of the family-friendlyness of this government: With this government of ÖVP and FPÖ, Austria has become the lead country in family policy! Something else is doing this child money – and that's also essential because it's one of the worst parts of the heritage we've taken over from the SPÖ – in terms of poverty in this country: The SPÖ has left us a million people who have to live on the poverty line in Austria, including very, very many young families. This child money is a fight against poverty in Austria and will actively contribute to the fight against poverty, because families will be able to afford their children in the future, as opposed to the time of their government, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, just before the end of the shop, a few days before the National Council decision, Mr. Gusenbauer and Mr. Cap come up with a supposedly new proposal, namely: to leave with the child's allowance, instead of a family allowance that does not get everyone again, but again only selected – we already know that, your model! But when you go into the store just before you shop, it's like this: There are only more shopkeepers there! The SPÖ has operated this shopkeeper policy very strongly and pronounced in recent weeks. She used to say: Get the kid's money out of here! No zero deficit, more debt for that! She says – this is also such a nebulous model – 8 500 S for everyone – so also for those who do not work. I am already excited how you want to explain this to your employees, who do not at all understand that you want to make available every 8 000 s of any money! That's incomprehensible! You want an increase in social security contributions – Mr Edlinger is always calling for this! You want, as Mr. One wrote in his book, the Christmas and Holiday Money, the 13th and 14th. Taxation of salary. – This is not our way! I can only say: We can be glad – and it is good for this country – that SPÖ is no longer in government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Back to the past – you have said it several times today: Turn around!, you have called in the hall here in supplication. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: No!]] – We are not turning around because that would be exactly the way back to the past, to your policy, to your policy as well as the burden. It's not often enough to say how you cut the families off in 1996 and 1997 – you, with your Minister of Finance! I'll read this to you again, because you don't remember: You have increased wage and income tax, increased tobacco tax, increased VAT, increased insurance tax, you have raised the prescription fee three times, the standard consumption tax, you have introduced an energy tax on electricity and gas, and you – Your Socialist Minister of Finance – of course, family benefits have been extremely short! You have reduced the duration and amount of the care allowance, the care allowance, the building savings, the general deduction amount, the deductibility of special expenses, the tax freedom for overtime, and also in the holiday and Christmas money you have "redocted" to the detriment of the Austrians. Another thing: You cannot blame us, Mr Gusenbauer, for it was your government, your SPÖ, who in recent years has been using 2 million Austrian self-retainers. That's what it was. Your mistakes and not the current government, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have deleted the birth grant, you have deleted the student free rides, and it was you who introduced the motorway vignette, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. This is your burden policy: a total package of 100 billion schilling for the Austrians! The Socialist Finance Ministers took away 5 000 S per month for families in one year. This is your balance sheet, and therefore own You're not credible! It's not better that you constantly criticize this child money today and say: Get out of this, we don't want it! – You had your chance, you didn’t notice it. They are becoming – and this is to be observed – now increasingly a so-called No-Sage party: They say to everything, to every proposal no – that is already criticised by the media. They say no to everything: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No to the ORF reform! No on social security reform! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No to the integration agreement! No to the disabled billion! And – at the end – no to the school law, where the "Kurier" then judges you: [[The speaker keeps an issue of the "Kurier" up to date]] Not enough, SPÖ! Sit down! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can only say no to such a nonsense!]] This is your balance sheet: Just say no – and that won't happen. They have already resigned as a constructive party – you just don't know – but you've adopted political content, instead you just want to block, demonstrate, and also marginalise parts of you, such as your youth organizations, as you have seen in Salzburg. But then you scream: SOS – "save our souls", Mr. Cap called in the press hour. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] That's right! Protect your souls and become constructive! I'm appealing to you: At last return, take part in a shaping policy, and do not continue to destroy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have once put the leadership claim in this country, and you want to put it back again, only: They have never been as far away from this leadership as they are now with this destructive policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] It is therefore also interesting that: You see the positive effects of this child allowance – not only that we have increased it to 6 000 s, not only that we have extended it to up to three years, but also all the other points – do not want to see, at all, the increase in family support, which, of course, we are also doing, by 1 200 s a year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You don't want to take note of all of this! Or: We have raised the commitment limit to 200 000 s per year, while in your time of government women are only allowed to earn 4 076 s per month. – You do not want to note that for Austria’s women, we are creating real freedom of choice between work and child rearing! That is, I think, an essential point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or: They do not want us to create real contribution times with this child money from now on – i.e. pension-based contribution periods – from 18 months onwards. Also, you don't want to realize that we are creating a pension improvement for Austrian mothers and also improvements for single parents who will enjoy 30 months of this child's allowance. This is a major improvement also for those who are particularly difficult, namely for single women. All this is very good, this is a real progress, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The child should no longer be seen exclusively as a cost factor, as was the case during your time of government, when you often and repeatedly, when talking to people, at various events especially heard of young mothers: I cannot afford children today, it is not possible because I do not have the financial resources for it! – [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] That's over with this kid's money! This is, so to speak, the plea for family with child, for freedom of choice in a company with financial security. We also know that you have no visions of the SPÖ in family policy because of your statements. Where is your vision, Mrs Prammer, when you call mothers in a public event as women who have sometimes "thrown"? Where's your vision? [[Abg. May. Prammer: My God! Oh, my God!]] Or: Where is your vision in view of the fact that the socialist councillor of Carinthia, Schaunig-Candut, took place on 7 May. March 3 said that the child's allowance was nothing but a pain allowance for permanent family damage? Is that your family-political vision? Or is Their family policy vision, for example Your proposal concerning Carnation Money PLUS? I looked at this too, that's very interesting: In this, the SPÖ writes that there should be karenz money only for sufficient employment and income dependent on it. That is, the more you've earned before, the more care money you get, that is, the richer a family, the more support it should get. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Who? The SPÖ?]] That is, the rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer. – No thanks, we don’t need this model! This socialist model should belong to the past! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Edlinger, who has just left the hall, because of course he has problems with his political past as a failed finance minister, I ask: Is this the family-political vision that you have for years – for years! – have ultimately taken out funds from the funds used for budget adjustment and other purposes, but not for the Austrian families and the Austrian children? – I don’t think that’s a vision, and that’s why this child money is so important. There have been two parties in this House who have been pursuing for years – I say for decades – a family-political vision of renewal: the ÖVP under the motto "Karenzgeld für alle", the FPÖ under the title "Kinderscheck". For both state-bearing parties, today's decision will make their core concern a reality! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Bures and Dr. Einm]] I would also like to say thank you at this point, of course, to the family politician Edith Haller, to the family politician Ridi Steibl, to Secretary-General Zierler and to Secretary-General Rauch-Kallat, who has been working for many years. We did it! What has not happened to this SPÖ for years, we have implemented, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni:... nothing brought together!]] I am very, very grateful for this – also as a family father and of course also as a family politician. Everyone knows that this child money model is an example for Europe as a whole. Countries all over Europe are looking at Austria and want to adopt this model. Finally, with today's decision and with the policy of this federal government, this reverse government knows everyone that this government is doing well for the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6319	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The clock is also set at 15 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6340	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It may be significant that today only male government members have taken place on the government bank and so far only men have spoken to this law – the gentlemen experts in child care! – and that is why I am sending a preliminary remark on the language of the law to my statement of content – especially my previous speaker has always spoken of the mothers, the women and the single parents – and note: [[Abg. Haller: That's beautiful!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you have against men?]] If I look at the law, I do not find the female terms in this law, and, although the Minister of Social Affairs has passed his own decree, I do not find the female terms in the law. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: I want your worries!]] [[Abg. Kiss: These are the concerns of mothers?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... 6,000 S!]] One should be just in a law that is important for parents, mothers and fathers, I think... I do not know why you are so opposed to the fathers, Mrs Partik-Pablé! We are for the partnership of children in the families! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I said: the 6 000 S are important!]] I think that women and men in Austria have a right to be observed by legislation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The 6 000 S are important!]] That is why, in the spirit of Mr Bundesminister's proposal for a Council of Ministers, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It will be interesting whether at least you can approach the idea of linguistic equality, which would cost nothing. [[Abg. Neudeck: We are going through this again in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're worried!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your concerns are certainly not those of the families!]] It is sad that the women in Austria in particular cannot hear the calls from the FPÖ banks, for it is significant as to how deplorable you are talking about women who have a right to be perceived by the legislation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That you don't care about the women, the Austrians have already noticed. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I want your concerns!]] But what has so far been said in terms of the law unfortunately does not agree with the truth and the facts. I have, above all, a question to the members of the Federal Government, an example of what I would like to show you all. [[The speaker presented a table with the title: "FPÖ-ÖVP Childcare money not for all!" and two family examples on the speaker's desk.]] Your statements from posters here in plenary... – Yes, I have a Taferl that invites you to join me in an invoice. [[Abg. Böhacker: A Taferl has the wife Petrovic!]] It is a simple and sad bill that proves that the karenz money – or now: Childcare money – not available for all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Only no one can read!]] I would like to explain why this is so! It is presented in a very simple example. [[Abg. How do I fill the speaking time!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] If all the parties in this House supposedly want fathers and mothers – you just did that in your calls – to take care of the children, that fathers and mothers should perform these tasks in partnership, if possible, then I really ask why you are punishing such a case. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How do I get over the speaking time!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Karenz money, child care money will not be available for everyone in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Bring us the Taferl!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It is written too small!]] Their announcements are the smooth untruth! [[Abg. Dr. Khol rises from his seat and reads the table.]] Mr Khol! In case you cannot read it: Two persons, one woman and one man, who both have a monthly income of 35 000 s before the birth of a child, for example, middle employees, choose to care for the child together in partnership. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where are the middle employees with 35 000 s?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You are so far from reality!]] If these two people do what is supposed to be in line with the intentions of all in this House – I don't know why you're so excited about partnering – that is to say, reducing their working time and salary by 50 percent, that is to say, earn less than 20 000 S gross, so what do they get in child care money? Maybe that's what the Federal Minister tells us? - Nothing! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Because both are above the limit of trust!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] If both are above the limit of trust – I thank you, Federal Minister – they won't get anything! Nothing. [[Abg. Kiss: So what?]] – "So what?", says Member Kiss! I'll leave that to you. A family in which the tasks are really shared together, a mother, a father, both of them with her child, who both reduce their working time – why do they get nothing? But Member Kiss says: So what? – I think the Austrian women will be "We thank you!" to say that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In other cases, with a single earner – it will usually be a man – who deserves more than these two people together, who care for the child in partnership, a single earner who, we say, deserves 150 000 S gross, who, for example, works in politics, the caring woman receives the 6 000 S! [[Abg. Kiss: Explain to the Austrian families how it has been so far!]] That is, a household with double income gets something at once, but the two people who reduce their income and their working time to care for a child get zero? Nothing at all? [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In view of this, you are here and say: Childcare money for everyone!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Well, that's great, that's great, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I note that this excites the gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP, very much. [[Abg. Kiss: Not at all!]] What do you have against the partnership of children? Why is there no childcare money for everyone? [[Abg. Kiss: Tell them what they've got so far!]] Why Dizziness You're on your posters? Faith You really think the population is so stupid that it can sell an X for a U? This is a trick to actually set in place the existing conditions, the non-partnership sharing of tasks. That's what it's all about! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's why the division is also 30 months to 6 months. Is that the same thing? Is this partnership? What's that supposed to do in the third millennium? [[Contradiction of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Why did you agree to such a draft? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] But the ÖVP women surprise me more every day. For example, I was with the former Member of Parliament Bauer in Berlin. There she said before the gathered EU parliamentarians and the national parliamentarians: No limit of trust, never and never! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] She also said: We want the partnership division, we want to care for mothers and fathers who care for children! – What happened in the meantime? Or: I was in Salzburg with Mrs Papházy. There, too, she said: no limit of merit! We also want to get the fathers into the families, we want the partnership division! – What has happened to the FPÖ women on this question? Why did they all fall into this project? Or: In a discussion, Mrs Zierler said that there should be at least a grinding system. – Yes, where is it? Only the well-earned men have survived, they have anchored their model here; and that is exactly how it should remain. No partnership, because that is not wanted by blue and black! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now to the income concept: Now I call you criticism points – that is not the case with the Greens – such as the Court of Auditors. It is not just that this is unfair, that is exactly what the FPÖ is not supposed to want, namely that the rich are getting even richer and that one takes away the poor. But this is happening here because these two people, this father, this mother, are not as good as the single earner with his super income. [[The speaker pointed to the panel standing in front of her at the speaker's desk.]] But he doesn't get anything. But there is a concept of income in which those concerned only know in retrospect whether they get something at all. The Court of Auditors says: In the Court's view, the proposed creation of a new concept of income is essential. – Then this arrangement will be crushed because the people who will read this law will be amazed. They will only know afterwards – especially the self-employed – whether they have any claim at all. Then it can be – and I think this is unconstitutional; unfortunately, I did not get any information in the committee – that, for example, an artist, an artist, an independent person, must pay back more than she or he had received before at the end of the year. - Well, that's "super"! For example, if income is determined at the end of the year and it is above the estimated 200 000 S, these persons may have to pay back the childcare allowance – 6 000 S, to a whole year it is 72,000 S. – This is unconstitutional, and you know that! They did not even allow serious discussion in the Committee. That's actually a shame! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors, not the Greens, our control body, also says: The financial statements are not understandable and partly contradictory. - Bravo! If the whole thing is contradictory, one thing is clear: The rich are getting richer, and those in the partnership are being punished. – That’s the evil thing about this law! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that child care money will not be available to all, especially not to the partnering couples, is sad. The fact that this government is also creating a dramatically uneven regime for foreigners is something I would have hoped that this would no longer be possible, but you will also do so. The fact that a Christian party is doing this is actually shocking, because it is these families who often do not have a really high income. This was really about combating poverty, but there are the rules of the game different. While they want a family benefit, a social benefit – and no insurance – but only for nationals. For foreigners: Foreigners – of course, I would like to say almost sadly – are something else. These sometimes require periods of insurance or a long period of residence, which also leads to a re-unconstitutional disability, because you are obliged to exercise equality at least among foreign citizens. You are under constitutional obligation to do so, but you are also infringing it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr Khol! Where's there? Your Constitutional Arch? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why?]] – I would also like to quote someone to whom you should perhaps trust more or believe more than the Greens, namely the former popular lawyer, who says: The differentiation made in connection with the Childcare Money Act between different groups of foreigners with a stay of less than five years does not appear to be appropriate. Why, for example, should a person of foreign nationality who has lived in Austria for two years not receive child care allowance if he has been employed independently during this period, but has a claim to the same person if he has been employed for the same period? - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! The law is inconsistent, it is unconstitutional in very many places – certainly unconstitutional! You risk this to maintain your conservative world view even further and to demonstrate your ideology. I regret that we could not really talk about these points, because the Greens would have liked to support a model that expanded the circle of those entitled to reference. Of course, the students, the students and other working persons would have been included in the circle of the protected persons, we would have liked to take such a decision, but you did not have to pay the child care allowance for all, but you were concerned about including the existing division of duties "the men in the profession, the women at home". This law is worth it to you that you spend more money for increasing inequalities in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You still haven't understood!]] That is why we cannot, of course, agree with this regulation, which we believe is unfair.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6877	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, tabled by Mr Petrovic, Mr Oellinger, Mrs Freundes, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6901	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In January 2002, every woman will have the right to take care of child care. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why only women? Is that constitutional?]] ==References== In January 2002, child care will be available for each child. [[Abg. Oils: Not for everyone!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No! Wrong!]] ==References== In January 2002, each family will be able to receive 6 000 S per month for each child for three years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are thus implementing the most important family policy measure of our families' firm government. We want to prepare a feast for the families. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Propaganda!]] We take high amounts in order to make this most important priority of our policy reality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I don't understand your excitement and your rejection. I do not want to address the abstract models of Mr Petrovic, who are completely alien. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I believe that!]] I do not understand, however, why the President-in-Office of the SPÖ, Mrs Barbara Prammer, called the care allowance "a special horror" for all. I also do not understand why the chairmen of women, apart from the services of the social-democratic trade unionists, Mrs. Schmidleithner, called the karenz money for all "a social crime". I also do not understand Mrs Mertel when she says how she has done it on television in a discussion with our Secretary-General Maria Rauch-Kallatgetan: [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But this is your problem!]] I don't like the karenz money every woman. [[Abg. Kiss: That's just stupidity!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Awesome!]] I don't understand! It's such a simple thing, it's clear to everyone: There are now more women – especially the previously underprivileged, the slightly employed women, the housewives, the farmers, the tradesmen, the students – to benefit from the childcare allowance. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] At least 6 000 S per month will be available for each child. That's about 300 s more than before. [[Abg. May. Worm: How long?]] For every child! We will also raise the child allowance for each child by at least 100 S per month. It's clear that this is a great improvement. It is also clear that families could only expect 24 months of cash benefit, now they can expect a cash benefit in the duration of 36 months. That's an improvement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, higher confidence is possible. So far, Karenzgeld has meant the end of professional activity. One could be slightly busy, in some exceptional cases slightly more than that. Now you can combine the work in the house, the work for the child, the work for the family with the work outside of the house. You can divide it, you're flexible. The mothers have options, the fathers have options – this is a clear improvement! But it is precisely this freedom of choice that the left side of this House wants to meet with women. You want to enforce your role model by law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Housework, family work, in your opinion, is inferior, wage-dependent work, employment, that's what everyone has to do; those who do housewives, who raise children, in your opinion, in fact – under quotation marks – "a stupid". How are statements such as "special horror", "social crime on working women" and "I don't like to understand the carnage money of every woman"? – This divergence can only be explained by the positions of principle, where green and red have the same left-wing positions of social nature, where the role of the family is seen differently than with us and where family work is seen differently than with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Only that explains why a measure, which is quite clearly a great achievement for all, is defiant and says: [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No! That's not true!]] We reject it! – I don't understand that at all, you can't convey it to anyone. Why don't you give the women this child money? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why don't you...?]] Why don't you allow the families to plan better now? Why don't you allow women to do a job outside the house just as much as a job in the house? Why? – For you family work is suffering, for you family work is oppression, for you the motto "away from the family" means emancipation, for you housework is inferior. Mrs. Prammer! In an interview with the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten", housewives who have never worked do not do any work. – I have to say: I recognize the great performance of our women and mothers and our fathers, who care for the most important things we have, who socialize our children who bring up our children who give the children life opportunities that convey to the children motherliness and fatherliness, which thereby train, attract, attract, and thus do a publicly relevant, socially important work, what we have at all in our Republic. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] We should all recognize that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We from the government parties – and there is the ÖVP on the same line as the liberals – do not want to force women to do so. Women should be able to choose themselves: If they want to stay with the child, they can. If the fathers want to stay with the child, they can do it in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No, that's not true!]] If they want to earn, they want to perform part-time work flexibly, then they can do it. [[Abg. May. Prammer: No, that's not true!]] If you want to buy babysitting, they can do it. For us, family work, child training and old-age care are important, for us they are part of solidarity – solidarity that is lived in the family. What we don't want is that this cynical sentence becomes reality when the grown child says to an old parent: You put me in the kids' room, I'm gonna put you in the old house now! - That's a cynical sentence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want families to be strengthened so that families can carry out their natural tasks. We want the big family, we want the families to look at the elderly as much as the parents look at their children. This is solidarity, that is partnership! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The women themselves, the families themselves, should be able to set their priorities and decide accordingly. This is it, Mrs Prammer, you have to give me an answer: Why don't you force the women to work outside the house, or don't they get any rent money? [[Abg. May. Prammer: You have spoken of freedom of choice!]] Mrs. Csörgits! You're the first day in the National Council today. You have presented a counter-model that I do not understand at all as a trade unionist. As a Christian trade union, I don't understand why you have designed a model that doesn't require small employees to receive child benefits, students should not receive child allowances, students should not receive child allowances and farmers and businessmen should only receive half the child's allowance. Why do you want that? Why do you suggest that the good earners receive not 6,000 S but up to 15,000 S? – That’s where the founders of the union movement, including yours, turn around in the grave when those of whom you sang, namely the “righteous ones”, get nothing. – We say: The kids' money's here for everyone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I ask you, Mrs Csörgits: Who's in solidarity? Who is in solidarity with the minor employees? Who's in solidarity with the housewives? – You certainly don’t! I would like you to come here to the speaker's desk and explain to your proposal that nothing is given to the poor and the rich the double. We're against it anyway! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Child money is a focus of our policy with far-reaching goals. [[Abg. May. Worm: Follow!]] We recognize first of all the socially irreplaceable, great role of the families, fathers and mothers. Second goal. In the future, the woman will have the opportunity to choose between the work in the house and the work outside of the house, which we consider to be equal and equally valuable. Third objective. We have, through the flexibility of this whole scheme – a limit of merit; The possibility of sharing the time between father and mother; Part-time care – very many models of parental work enabled. I hope that many fathers and mothers will benefit from this flexibility. [[Abg. This is so flexible that...!]] Fourthly, we have done something very important – I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, about social democracy and the Greens, why you do not recognise it: For the first time, child rearing time is now also paid for with pensionable months. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who pays?]] We're all paying for that, Mrs. Mertel! I can tell you the following: Our proposal costs less than your foundry model, which has no social policy implications as always. Your model costs a billion more. The cast farmer model costs a billion more than the model we are presenting here and you are saying, Mrs Mertel: We can't afford all of this! [[Abg. May. Prammer: These are the childcare facilities you have deleted!]] You have polemized all year against this child money because you said: It's too much! – In our opinion, this does not cost too much, we want it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want the pension fund. Every parent who performs child training and is not in a professional life receives 18 months of pension. Our goal is that more and more women can acquire their own pension rights. We do not want a dependency on maintenance rights given in the event that a marriage is going wrong, but we want each woman to have their own pension rights and we want to raise the rate of women in working life to 75 percent. That is important and a very big goal of our policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have also maintained the special promotion of single parents. Peter Westenthaler also pointed this out. I wonder and I would also like to say this to Mr Küberl of the Caritas: This childcare allowance is the most important means of combating poverty in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: There is currently an international economic downturn, and in other countries, consumption is collapsing. This reduces the economy and economic growth. These 9 billion schillings we provide to parents for their children go into consumption. This will support consumption. This is an employment side effect of great importance for all those who live and work in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you of one more thing. At the time, we introduced the karenz money as a accompanying measure to resolve time limits, thinking that no woman should be forced to abortion for financial reasons. If we now extend the reference to housewives, minor employees and students, this is also a measure that in many cases ensures life. That is exactly what matters to us as a life party! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Prammer and Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to thank Ridi Steibl, Mrs Haller, Mrs Zierler and Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who have negotiated all this for us. As far as the People's Party is concerned, I say: As families, we have fulfilled a firm party to one of our election promises and can proudly say to the families: We'll take care of you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7345	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7367	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the debate on the introduction of a better care of this state for the families and for the children goes into the final round. Ladies and gentlemen! As a competent Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Generations, the introduction of the childcare allowance is a milestone in Austrian family policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank those who have put the stone in place in order to improve the situation of the families in Austria, namely the initiators of the family-popular desire, who now see the discussion and, finally, with today's decision-making process, the most important projects of their popular desire in the implementation phase. A thank you also to those who in public not only made themselves strong for the families but also consistently represented the concerns of the families. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links==* Official website In January 2002, all children born after that date in Austria are paid the childcare allowance. It is also possible for those who are entitled to care to transfer the lower care allowance to the higher family and child care allowance from that point on, a difference of about 400 s for the benefit of the child care allowance in relation to today's care allowance. That was clarified once. Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the situation of women and the re-entry of women into working life, you, on the part of social democracy, but also Mrs Petrovic, have broken their heads. As a responsible woman minister, I am convinced that child care money in the form adopted today will be a significantly better tool for women in this Republic to get back into employment on the labour market with higher qualifications than it has been in the past with the care allowance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of SPÖ]] [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out to you that there is currently a ban on income above the level of low-security. This ban on income, currently 48 912 S per year, will be 200 000 S in the future. This means that women can earn up to 200 000 s by part-time work, weekend representations, holiday representations and other occupations in their established profession even during the time when children are already being cared for in children's families or in other favourable care facilities. This will mean that women receive continuing education and training during the period of the child care allowance. Mr Gusenbauer! I should like to draw your attention, Mrs Prammer, to the fact that, from the point of view of women who have broken their heads over their careers, re-entry aid has not been effective. Although you have received these re-entry assistance in the labour market service, what have they looked like? – Self-invention course 1, self-invention course 2, in extreme case self-invention course 3. Christmas table, Easter table and other domestic activities. I do not think that this instrument has been suitable to improve the professional qualifications of women in the appropriate form. I believe that the current measures that Mr Bartenstein has put together with the AMS, namely vocational training, computer training courses, vocational training, post-training, participation in vocational training and further training in the enterprises, which are more useful instruments for opening up a better income situation for women after the child break for their further life course than what was in the past for this sector. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as the peuniary sector is concerned, I should like to point out that the child care allowance will amount to 6 000 S and that the previous amount has been 5 643 S for professionals. So this is a significant improvement. I am pleased, Mr Gusenbauer, that you are finally breaking your head on the multi-children's season, because the historical fact is that the single social-democratic government has abolished the multi-children's season. It has only been reintroduced on the basis of family desire and on the basis of an action before the Constitutional Court in 1997. I'm glad you finally discovered your heart for the multi-child families. In the past, this has not always been the case with social democracy. I have specifically chosen from the period 1995/96 some of the opinions of the ladies and gentlemen of today's opposition parties. The discussions about the multi-children's season ran under the tag "from the steel helmet to the mother's cross". That was your attitude at the time. Today, it is thanks to God that you have changed your mind, in the direction they have always consistently represented the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ, that, through the framework of family support, the multi-child families are also provided by means of additional benefits – also for disabled children – and are not only properly cared for, but that only that is the only fair instrument to take into account the extra burden on families. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I should like to point out that there will also be corresponding increases in this area from 2002 onwards: 1 200 S more family allowance, namely 100 S per month more, for a disabled child in addition to 100 S per month. I believe that this federal government has actually thought of the families and not the ideology, as you, Mr Gusenbauer, have tried to represent it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is it like in the profession? What about your part-time career, Mrs Petrovic? – The fact is that part-time care, which was introduced in 1992, was never used by more than 1 percent of the respective birth year; the highest level was reached in 1998 with 3 599 in part-time, of which 3 402 were women and 197 were men. Since part-time care is known to extend over a period of four years, this was about 1 percent of all the benefit at the time. Taking into account those excluded from the karenz money, it was about 0.8 percent of those who had children in the respective year. But if you follow the public discussion now, you might think that the part-time career was the most attractive family policy instrument. I think these figures prove to the public that they are not. It should be added that under today's rules with the 200 000 S-reward limit, 71 percent of men and 92 percent of women will still have the same income if they reduce their working time to the extent necessary for the 200 000 S-reward limit. That's important. In total, we never had more than 4 percent men in part-time leave, 9.8 percent in one year was the highest. Overall, the highest proportion of men who have actually taken care of the education of their children was at a maximum of 2% in 2000. The Federal Government is also expecting a significant improvement in this area in spite of the framework conditions, despite the 200 000 S commitment limit. We believe that child care money has clearly provided better for this area too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you look at a few examples, you will notice that the model you presented, Mr Gusenbauer, a few days ago, would exclude thousands of Austrian women and their children from child benefits. It is also obvious, Mr Gusenbauer, that the model you presented will give to the Austrian families where income is high, more and less where income is low. – The social policy effect is also clearly missing with your model! I therefore believe that the Austrian Federal Government and the Austrian Parliament, which today will adopt the childcare allowance by a majority, have taken more care and a better approach to the future and to the Austrian families than you, Mr Gusenbauer, did with your rapid-shooting model last week. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's not here, unfortunately!]] There is a great deal of discussion about the fact that the right of return to work and the protection of workers on the one hand and the provision of money on the other, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the Social Democrats, I am sure that the German child care scheme will also provide for and provide for a clear distortion between labour law and money provision. I think that some of the representations, as they are given in the Austrian public, are that in Germany both parents are not able to obtain money, simply and simply can't be read out from the present texts in Germany. Money can be obtained, both can be in the same form – without parallel workers' protection! – dedicated to child care. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have a fair, correct and clean discussion, you simply have to be convinced that the Austrian child care allowance, as it is on the table, is matured and is certainly the best service distribution in money for the families in Austria, which has been decided in the history of the Second Republic for the Austrian families in a train. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! I would also like to make it clear that this Federal Government did not abolish the kindergarten billions, but that the kindergarten billions had been designed as a single measure for two years with the payment of the countries and therefore had not been planned for budgetary purposes before the Federal Government took office. [[Abg. May. Prammer: That's not true at all!]] – It is not possible to abolish something that is not planned per futuro, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy – you know it very well –: The provision of kindergartens and kindergartens and other facilities in the toddler sector is constitutionally clear and clear matter of the countries! I can already ask you to finally implement and represent this in all the national governments in which you are represented – it is the task of the country! – what you want to move to the Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Create You better conditions for the Austrian families on site, where you have the say in the national governments! Do not do it according to the method: "Stop the thief! You above are guilty that we are stout down!" – This will not be for sale in the Austrian public, Mr. Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is often discussed here about the financial situation of the families. In this context, attention should also be paid to how the design of kindergartens, horte and other facilities in the peuniary area is regulated. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! I would like to ask you, in the interests of the Austrian families, where you are responsible in the national governments, to finally ensure that kindergartens are significantly cheaper, because unfortunately, many socially weak families cannot afford the offer you offer as responsible in the national governments! 4 000 S to 5 000 S in private kindergartens in Vienna, because public kindergartens are unable to meet the needs, are unfortunately not rare. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is written in letters I receive from families to my ministerial office, which are excited about the conditions in the Federal Capital of Vienna in the appropriate form. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7509	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Mertel. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7544	Gentlemen and my lady on the government bank! Mr President. Mr. Andreas Khol, his sign Klubobmann of the ÖVP, has proven that Andreas Khol is the synonym for Torquemada. He has proved to be the general inquisitor of the National Council: He judges who understands something and does not understand. He judges what's right and what's wrong. There is only one opinion, namely his, and if another objectively represents a different opinion, he thinks he is polishing. Mr. Khol! Not Andreas Khol, but Torquemada is more striking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. General Inquisitor! You're not right! Not every child gets 6 000 S, even if as a general inquisitor you claim this here. Not every child gets 6 000 S, only one child in the family gets this 6 000 S. You say I don't give every woman the carnage money, and if you have this information from Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, then I have to say: I have actually entrusted Mrs Rauch-Kallat with higher intellectual skills than just those to understand a half set and pass on a half set. I would have thought that you, Dr. Khol, would have distanced yourself from such a malicious submission. Of course, we also want to involve housewives and students, but we ask ourselves the question: Where does the money come from, and where does the money flow? – The money comes from the family compensation fund, 83 percent of employees are paid. As early as 1998, I recorded in a television interview: Of course we want to do something for the students, and of course we also want to take the housewives into account! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But you didn't do it!]] Our policy, the SPÖ's policy, was of high regard to women. That was how our SPÖ women's policy was directed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have respected the double burden on women. All family benefits in Austria – and Austria is at the forefront, you can read this in international studies and OECD studies – come from the SPÖ, were created under as you say, red Chancellors and red finance ministers. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] The fact that FLAF has become deficient is that it has to take responsibility for ÖVP's family ministers. [[Abg. Zierler: Who cleared the FLAF?]] If Mr. Khol proclaims here loud, he doesn't understand the ÖGB model, and calls on Mrs. Csörgits to explain, then I can only... [[The speaker is making a noise.]] [[Abg. Zierler: That's where it even beats your language!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] Mr. Khol thinks he doesn't understand the ÖGB model. Then let him explain it by his Christian trade union colleagues! Mr. Khol! Why don't you ask Mrs Gubitzer and the male colleagues from the ÖGB? There is a unanimous federal board decision, but that seems to have gone away to this day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: The ÖVP trade unions are loud "dwarfs"!]] If, in your speech, Dr. Khol, you talk about the fact that "every" parent receives something, then the good joy may have gone through with you, because in "every" parent you have thought about women again. - That's it! Mr. Haupt speaks of a multi-children's season and means the extra-child's allowance; as a family minister, he is messing up significant things: The multi-child supplement increases by 100 s, but still the multi-child families will have almost 9 000 s less. For the areas of kindergarten billions, childcare facilities, work compatibility and family life, you have not provided anything in your budget. You have disbursed 40 billion schilling from the families over the last one and a half years – 40 billion schilling! – and your record of sins will be longer from day to day, from month to month. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zierler: How many debts did the SPÖ leave behind?]] You, FPÖ and ÖVP, have promised the families that they will get more, but you have done it that families with three children will have less, namely, about 5,000 s less. [[Abg. Ornamentals keep an abacus up.]] You're going to be fine. Take You don't take these balls, but you take a modern computer, then you'll come up with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 50 per cent of all cardiac payers will have 5 000 s less, and you with your luxuriant rhetoric – well, I would say, at Mr. Westenthaler it's more of a rough rhetoric – raise the illusion that families, mothers, children, fathers will go better. They awaken the illusion that it will be better for them! – Have been so wrong You are not, however, because in the last one and a half years you have burdened the families, have disassembled, have shortened, and therefore it can only be better, because I already give you the right. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ammary tales!]] Even if you – I have already said so – increase the extra-child supplement by 100 s, low-income multiple-child families still have a lower income rate by 9 000 s. This is how your poverty reduction programme looks, according to your family policy: Poverty is increasing, families are being severely burdened! If you do, I have to say to you, Mr Minister, that you always do, you say they will be something for a long time: That's not true. The risk of poverty of a family is particularly high in the first year of the child, because one cannot earn it with a young child. They've built so many obstacles. On the one hand, 30 or 36 months of possible cash benefits, on the other hand, only 24 months of karenz claim and pension cover – this is not combined! That is why you have already suggested the bar, because to this extent the cash will not be used at all. But parents will be forced to decide between work and family or child from the second year onwards. Trust limit of 200 000 S – what does that really mean? Who cares for the children in reality, Mr. Minister? Where is the child's care in the sense of the child's well-being, my self-appointed family parties? Maybe someone can explain it to me. Who will motivate the fathers in the third year to use the karenz period to take child training into their hands if they are not even protected by labour law? They are constantly talking about freedom of choice. However, "election" means being able to choose between two or more possibilities. But you only create a possibility, i.e. the reference of the child's allowance, because you yourself said you wouldn't provide anything in your budget, no schilling for a childcare facility. – They promote the career exit of women, long career breaks, and your model is designed in such a way that families and in particular certain groups of women are to become care cases! There are sharp inequalities in this law: There are women who are entitled to weekly benefits but are not allowed to receive child benefits during this period. However, there are also women, self-employed and farmers, who can obtain farm aid and child benefits. Is that the same thing? They prefer single-earner budgets – the only winners of this scheme – single-earner budgets benefit from child money to those families where both partners are employed and both make their contributions. They are indisputable on their own. In your action plan to combat poverty, you are talking about the fact that a single parent is exposed to disproportionate poverty risk. They powder more than 10 billion schillings and have not managed to make a single regulation throughout the package, how to improve the life situation of single parents. In your action package, you also said that child money could be an incentive for men, fathers, to be involved in childcare. – Perhaps if you would have created a labour law insurance if you had not lost the part-time karenz model through a earnable limit and if you had taken over the flexible karenz money account schemes! With you, family promotion simply ends from the third year of life of the child. This list of shortcomings I have listed could be continued. The criticism points in the review procedure have been ignored, while hearing in the Family Committee all the arguments have been pushed aside, smiling, I would even say, simply ignored. What are you doing today? - Today you're driving over it! It's already announced on the posters as you want it to be. They have – in order to hold it again – low-income people in Austria with a calm hand – the left-handed hand of the Federal Chancellor! – 40 billion schilling were pulled out of the bag. Her family-political milestone is a heavy millstone around the neck of the fathers and the mothers. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: Further millstones are announcing, because your financing concept for child money is getting neatly waving, the child money will not be financeable in the long term!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7726	The next speaker was Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7747	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mertel, you have done an incredible derailment right at the beginning of your remarks. You compared Klubobmann Khol to Torquemada, who, as you know, but perhaps not all listeners know, was a big inquisitor and a thousand blood courts. – This shows once again your deeply contempting attitude toward the political opponent and seamlessly adjusts to others of your statements. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is so deep that I do not want to respond to other statements of yours. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now on the matter: The Freedom Party has already begun to change Austria many years ago under Jörg Haider. We have propagated our ideas, including the child care check, and it is good that the new leadership of our party in the ÖVP has found a government partner who pursues these reforms just as vehemently as we do. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am particularly pleased that this will for reform also extends to social policy and family policy – the most important status of social policy – because today's decision on child care money sets real new, great standards in Austrian family policy. Today is truly a good day for the Austrian families, for the Austrian women and for the Austrian children, because it is the first time that child care and therefore the child are actually put at the centre of a family benefit. ==References== January 2002 will benefit all families, all women, all children; Parents who have insurance claims or similar claims are already present. The improvements are really so enormous that one cannot speak often enough of them: the increase of child benefit from almost 10 percent to 6 000 S, the extension of 18 plus 6 months to 30 plus 6 months, the payment of insignificant amount, for the first time a real credit of pension insurance periods for women, the extension of the population; Single parents, farmers, students, students, little employees, housewives will benefit in particular. All family benefits remain – contrary to your statements! We also increase family allowances. I am sure that you have missed this, Mr Gusenbauer? Thus, this childcare allowance means a real revolution in family policy. It means a paradigm change, as Professor Schattowitz has so beautifully said, which is eagerly expected by the Austrian population. In any case, that says the feedback I get from the population. In the future, it will no longer be the case that mothers of one and a half-year-old children will have to be fully available to the labour market, which once led Mrs. Petrovic to the same vehement as we did. The Greens have already realized a little that the population will be behind this new measure. At the beginning of the year, Mrs Petrovic spoke of her brutal cynicism and chaos and of macabre women's and family policies – today, here at the speaker's desk, she went to margins. It has put the lack of gender-specific language use at the centre of your considerations and has only tried to save itself over the 15 minutes of speaking time on the basis of hard-wearing examples. The social-democratic emancenaries among Mrs. Prammer and your boss Gusenbauer really shot the bird here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Not only does Mr. Gusenbauer give false examples of his calculations, but the arguments from the moth box – they are the same again and again – do not become more true. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Even the expert in the hearing of the Family Committee has clearly acted with untruths. It claimed that the re-entry aid was deleted. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Is it deleted!]] It has claimed that the part-time leave is deleted. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] – No, you got a little confused, Mrs. Colleague! It was agreed that unemployment benefit should now be granted and emergency aid removed. That's just untruths! Mrs Prammer! You and your party continue to rely on dusty, outdated family policy. They still want the earliest possible separation of children from mothers. That's what you're constantly propagating. They still see the women somewhere as heroes of work, who see their self-realization in sitting behind a "Billa" box for 8,000 s a month, half of which goes for a kindergarten and travel expenses. [[Abg. May. Prammer: This is your limit!]] – This is history! This will be snow from yesterday in the future, Mrs Prammer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It's not a "woman trap", as you always say. Where is a "female trap" when women receive 6 000 S per month in future instead of a year and a half 5 643 S for two and a half years and the father for half a year?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The whole FPÖ is a women's trap!]] And: You're not being forced to go to Karenz all the time. You have to separate that from each other. On the contrary: By increasing the limit of commitment, women – and this is particularly true in the social democratic direction – can be animated to accept part-time jobs. That will also be the case in the future. There are various design possibilities, therefore an extension of 24 months' notice of termination is not necessary if women take part-time employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] But maybe you don't know, Mrs. Worm. It's important – and that's what you've always propagated – that women do not lose the connection to working life. That is what will be possible through the adoption of part-time employment. The basic idea, however, was that in the future there must be a better freedom of choice and a better reconciliation of family and profession. There will also be impulses for additional childcare places – in the private area, in the rural area by day-mothers – because now mothers will have 6 000 S to pay for these childcare facilities, and this will obsolate the right to a childcare centre that you always require, because that will be self-regulatory. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What?]] Mrs Prammer, you have assembled: Where do you take fathers into responsibility? There is also a tremendous improvement: In the future, 40 percent of fathers will have the opportunity or the opportunity to reach the same income they had up to when reducing working time plus the amount of child care allowance. 40 percent of Austrian fathers! If this is not also an opportunity for the Austrian fathers, I don't know. That is why I no longer understand your argumentation at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One thing is quite clear: By increasing the amount, by extending the reference, of course, child care money will become very effective in terms of distribution policy. It is an additional income, and it will have a positive influence on the risk of poverty among families, because more than half of the child care allowance will flow into the lower-income third. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] That's facts! I'll come to the end and suggest: Let's not turn Austria's women into commanders! Let us judge for ourselves Austrian women and families how they see this measure: positive or negative!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7885	Please put the final sentence, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7900	I am at the end, Mr President: I notice again and again and from day to day more that the Austrian women and families have already opted for this measure, and this will ultimately benefit our Austrian children.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7931	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Dr. Khol has worked hard with the incense vessel and has swirled it over and around, but the euphoric effect on your own group, Dr. Khol, is missing because the group is missing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Perhaps you will manage to euphorate your group a little more in this debate, Dr. Khol. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I understand, Dr. Khol, that for ÖVP and FPÖ, child benefit – and the debate on it clearly shows – is an occasion for a day of joy. It happens very rarely in this government, actually for the first time, that they give money to people in this country at a significant height and do not take them. So far, it has been the case that They have taken away money from people in this country. Now give them something. But at what price? That's the question! – For the price that pensions, including women you now promise, are no longer secured in 20 years. In order to reduce the price of a redistribution between the individual social groups, and in order to reduce the price of the child's first three years of life, but after these three years, when it comes to childcare places when it comes to child care, when it comes to receiving care in school and next to the school. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's scurry!]] This means I'm silent and I'm not going to cut the subject of tuition fees at all. So the message to the Austrians through this Federal Government is: In the first three years, the children have to pay cheaper or with money, but after that, you, dear Austrians, dear citizens, unfortunately have to pay more! – This is the only message left of your past government activity! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It does not help much if you, Dr. Khol, wave the incense pot for the harbinger of the ÖVP and FPÖ coalition and for the harbinger of family policy. That doesn't help families much. It doesn't help families much, either, if you're supposed to give them a little more money now – for some it's less than before; but perhaps we're still talking about it – and it doesn't help families a lot, because all the other issues that concern families with children that are related to relationships with children are completely unexplained. The question is still completely unexplained: What happens to those people who actually want to spend the first years with their children, but who can't, because, for example, as a man, they have no right from the employer to use this care next to the woman? I am telling you, Mr Social Minister, even if you have done so, that the German model – this was very similar to the Austrian you are now introducing – which the red-green coalition introduced and which provides for both partners to be able to go on paid karenz alongside each other, is a major step forward because it allows for partnership-based childcare. At least in this direction, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, you could have made an effort to make it possible for both partners to be with their children. Perhaps not for three years, but for at least one year or one and a half years, both partners should be able to take care of their children together. But so all the speeches you gave in the past debates, in which you complained that the fathers are missing in the families, are forgiven. Yes, the fathers really lack in the families! But what are you doing to make it easier and better now? – Nothing you do, but also nothing to enable partnership child care! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dr. Khol makes himself and says: The childcare allowance is a wonderful means and the only means to combat family poverty. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A means! An important tool!]] Now I'm telling you something: Don't you know, Dr. Khol, what's happening in Carinthia right now? – There is a draft social assistance law, in which Your government partner at the country level has announced that all national family benefits will be charged for social assistance – i.e. by this amount the social assistance will be reduced. However, this draft still states: All national family policy benefits are counted. Do you know what that means, Dr. Khol? – That means: I get child care money in Carinthia as a poor person in the future, but I get, if I'm really so poor that I need social assistance, no money to feed my children and me. This is the brutal reality as it looks out in some countries and which shows the direction in which some groups think; whether this is the FPÖ in Carinthia or the ÖVP in other federal states, where the social assistance is not deleted, but where the funds for childcare are reduced or where it is not possible, as in Tyrol and Vorarlberg and in some other western states, to send his child into a full-day care facility, because there is almost no care facilities that have been open all day. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] The kindergartens are still closed in many western states over lunch. But now back to the argument of Dr. Khol, to which I would like to say: In the Federal Republic of Carinthia at least, the childcare allowance is not a means of preventing poverty, but rather: If the child care allowance comes, then in the future in Carinthia the poor will be punished by the removal of social assistance or by the reduction of social assistance. – That’s your concept! You should be ashamed of such bad developments, even if you just remember them! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's not my invention. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] A second point, ladies and gentlemen: Let us look at what is going on with the transitional provisions! Member of the European Parliament It's my successor as a speaker. Hasn't she announced in 2000 that it is for all parents whose child is after the 1st century? Is born July 2000 that will give new child money?- Oh, my God! She didn't announce that?- Oh, my God! Of course, she announced this, in the issue of "NEWS" of 11th. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== Mr Sozialminister, who at the time, as a member of the committee, said several times that child care allowance was already available from 1. It has also been declared publicly by the public in July 2000. He said for all the children who came after the 1st century. ==References====External links==* Official website – Now we get the letters that you should actually receive from parents who ask us: It was announced at the time that we would receive the childcare allowance. Why is that not right now? Why does the government want all those whose children follow the 1st century? were born July 2000, at least the extension is not paid? Why does she want to exclude all those who had the "nothing" to give birth to their children "too early"? But the Minister of Social Affairs said: Unfortunately, we don't have the money we need, we're sorry! We would have liked to have done this, but the reality is so sad now. We can't do that. Whether we have promised it or not, there are no transitional periods for these groups, they are excluded from the right to refer. – That’s the reality! For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! For the compatibility of work and family, for the difficult situation of people who actually want to care for children in partnership, you have done nothing – nor for people in transition. That is also a reality! You can spread so much incense around yourself, Dr. Khol!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8108	The amendment tabled by Mrs Oellinger, Dr Petrovic, friends and friends is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mertel, you have put Mr Khol, during your speech, as "synonymous for Torquemada". - Torquemada is for the destruction of religious minorities in the 15th century. ==References====External links== That is why I give you a call for order for this comparison. [[Abg. Böhacker: "That's also a possibility," Mrs. Mertel!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: She didn't know who that was!]] The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8154	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government, with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel at the head, has made family policy a centerpiece of its government work. The ÖVP families have taken a firm lead. Because we stand firm with our families because we understand the wishes of our families and because we take the concerns of the families seriously, we have successfully implemented the content of the family-popular desire. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Allow me at this point, the responsible of the Austrian family association, and also all those who have made a declaration of support with their signature, to express my thanks. So the family popular desire is one that has been successfully completed, and we say thank you. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Trattner.]] However, I would also like to say a thank you to all the officials and experts who have worked in the condition of this Childcare Act. I think it was a hard piece of work. A central social policy policy policy position has been achieved. A thank you also to Minister Bartenstein and of course to Minister Haupt. They both showed how to do cooperative government work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With January 2002 – you can't repeat it often enough – 9 billion schilling flows directly to the families. Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel said: These billions for child care money are a golden impulse. The money benefits families, especially those who need it in the initial phase. With the introduction of the childcare allowance – you still do not understand – at the amount of 6 000 S per month, a year, if not decades, requirement of the ÖVP, which was not feasible with the SPÖ, will be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are the victims of your own propaganda!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition to the positive conclusion of family popular desire, for example, we have also put in place measures in the field of "violence in the media" and also in the field of drugs and sects. All of this could be concluded positively. Ladies and gentlemen! I already mentioned it: As of January 2002, 9 billion schillings will flow directly to the families each year. The money will benefit all families. With this milestone we show from ÖVP, with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel at the top that all children and all young people are at our heart. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For the first time, not only parents' care services are recognised, but also the freedom of choice in childcare is increased. Young families who need this childcare allowance will receive massive positive support. But how did the SPÖ react? – In a press conference on 21st January. In November 2000, the SPÖ, Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Edlinger, called for a relinquishing of the carnage allowance for all. This would bring a margin of at least 6 billion schilling in 2002 and 2003. This is a serious misthinking of the SPÖ. Party chairman Gusenbauer does not understand that the childcare allowance has nothing to do with the budget in itself, which does not in any way burden the budget in any form. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not true at all!]] I'll tell you why not. In fact, this family policy benefit is financed through the family compensation fund, which, unlike almost all other funds in Austria, is structurally no longer a deficit bringer. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is partly financed by the budget! He's got 15 billion schilling from the budget!]] This fund, which you know, was set up in the 1950s as a dedicated fund for the delivery of the Federal budget. [[Abg. Edellinger: 15 billion from the budget! You don't know!]] These funds must be devoted to the children and do not cause a budget deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The SPÖ Women's Chairperson Prammer calls the child care allowance a "female measure which makes women forced behind the stove and makes them housewives only", says the "FORMAT" 17/01. To this end, I would like to say that even Chancellor Schröder – and I believe he is SPÖ-near – in March of this year in a big article in the "world" the family conjured and said – I quote exactly –: "The most important and most important task of every society is to raise children." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And on top of that: "It is not at all a betrayal of emancipation and women's movement if women choose not to be active for a while, but focus on unpaid work in the home and family." – Reading in the "world". The Neo-Deputy Renate Csörgitsist as ÖGB Women's Chairperson is responsible for an information brochure that simply gives false information and answers to the child care allowance. The costs for this brochure include employees or members of the ÖGB, fathers and mothers, and I am therefore setting up my contributions today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What? Is that what I'm paying?- Oh, my God!]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] This procedure proves once again that the SPÖ and the ÖGB are being held hostage by each other. There is no such thing as over-participation. But that doesn't seem to be enough. SPÖ Members, instead of sitting here in the House, here in Parliament to debate – that has already been mentioned, but we have to mention it again now – demonstrate to Parliament with a "millstone action". Some time ago, you made a "action to reduce obstacles". Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They had twenty years and more to change something. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We make family policy for the benefit of the child! You do nothing to help but make motions for resolutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear mothers and fathers in front of the screens or in Austria! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The SPÖ's No to child care benefits would mean that 15 000 mothers or fathers would not or would not fully benefit from this childcare allowance. [[Abg. Swimmling: Let the grandma greet you!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They are against more money for the families, that is, 6 000 s a month, and thus a plus of 80 000 s a year. I emphasize: 80,000 s a year! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Greetings to the grandma!]] The SPÖ is also opposed to the increase in family aid by 100 S. You'd rather make a model that's not comprehensible. They are against the increase of the multi-child strike. We want the families to receive a 500-s higher multiple-child supplement. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Greetings to the grandma!]] We want more freedom of design and choice through the four times the limit of trust. We want a planability at the commitment limit, and we from the government party ÖVP advocate the compatibility of work and family. We are in favour of promoting re-entry into the profession, we want to make both of them compatible because we know that a society that abandons children is becoming more grey, tough and selfish. Studies show that especially during the first years of the child's mother's life, but also fathers want more time for their children, but at the same time do not want to lose the connection to their professional life. Hence, families need not only good words, but above all good deeds. Happiness in the family is not only a question of money, but also family policy is not only a question of money, it is also a social policy and a life policy. We would be pleased if you, dear SPÖ and Greens, would still change your mind, and allow the families in Austria this social benefit.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8378	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8399	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Family benefits, which are decided by the National Council today – child benefit and an increase in family allowances – are the central family policy promises of this Federal Government. With this we have begun to rerule Austria, and we realize it today. I am really proud of this performance, because we have done it in savings times and can achieve it in full consensus with the economy and with the family associations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, my thanks go to the initiators of the family people's desire, because their commitment, which has been laughed at by many, yes, has shown that if you want to express the truth, you can move something in Austria, if you have ideas, if you show ways, how to realize something, and if you also have the tenacity to represent these ideas against political resistance concretely and with all repressiveness. So thank you to all mothers, fathers, experts and scientists who have supported this family popular desire so sustainably and successfully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I had to smile a little, Mrs Mertel, when I heard that you have attributed all the good of this world in terms of family benefits to red chancellors and red family ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You weren't in the government! You've never been there!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – But I heard it! May I say anyway: The family tax compensation fund was introduced not by a red chancellor or by a red finance minister, but by Julius Raab and by Reinhard Kamitz – by tough marketers who had a heart for the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] There was far and wide nothing to see from a red chancellor. By the way: I would also point out that for 13 years the People's Party has placed the family ministers of this Republic – two are sitting in the hall: one is Maria Rauch-Kallat, one is Martin Bartenstein – and they also have an unimportant share in these successes; for this they also have to thank them. [[Abg. Huber: But no!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So that we understand ourselves correctly and that I do not fall into your extreme: In the past, of course, with the help and support of social-democratic chancellors and finance ministers, there have been improvements for the families – this is beyond dispute – but this quantum leap that we have made, namely Austria, to become the most family-friendly country in Europe, which is being achieved today, has become possible because two political parties, the liberals and the ÖVP, which have a lot of commons with regard to these goals, who have scrambled on sleeves and worked out something together. We have no competition of posters: Who's better, who's better? Together we are proud to have moved something important in Austria. And there we do not need to hide, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today's decision is a central signal that the Federal Government, the National Council, society, media families and children are important. I know that there are many forms of living together – that is clear, and this must also be strongly recognized in an open, tolerant society – but the family deserves and needs special protection, it needs material, but also spiritual, immaterial support. That is why today's decision is of course also a piece of social policy. They call it ideology. I say: It is social policy – and it is worth talking about, perhaps also challenging different views. [[Abg. Huber: This is false ideology!]] I am of the opinion that families and children are and remain central values and institutions – even in modern society today. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is mine and our social policy credo that a family at the beginning, when the family is founded, when the first children come, needs special support. They all grew up in families and often have children themselves. You know that's right. Who needs the support? – Not all – we don’t want a foundry policy – but some in very specific, central stages of life in which they need special attention. When a family is set up, then when the first child comes, one is quite vulnerable, there are problems on the labour market, often also with one's own family – not all children are desirable children; we know that – some circumstances of life are bitter and painful, and we simply want to take away burdens there – also knowing that more is needed in the present age than ever before. What Andreas Khol said was not cynical, he meant it rather painfully touched. And I have to say, If we want the elderly not to be excluded, then we must also do everything we can to allow mothers and fathers to choose their families in freedom and that the economy, but also the family fund, provide the material basis for this. This is important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Mertel and Silhavy.]] They are really hard on the argument – I know it – because even speakers of the opposition are painfully moved: That's just 9 billion schilling more cash for the families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's great, you have to acknowledge that! There is not "the Federal Government" – in order to say this clearly here too – but the family fund is mainly fed by the economy in solidarity. Budgetary contributions are also included, but this money is mainly from the economy. Where in the world is this: that small and medium-sized enterprises and the industry are so solid for a central concern of our world, our society?- Oh, my God! – Therefore, thanks to the economy that they are here and not criticised around like you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I now have the fourth SPÖ model in my ear – and I understand that you are having a hard time doing it. [[Abg. Swimmling: We're not having a hard time!]] First of all, it was said that you should delete the pension fund and give it a basic income without work. That's where I have to say: A "great" idea! What, then, have we not heard in the debate today, actually say those workers' representatives who have to make contributions to this? Is that a joint approach? Are you up for that? – I personally consider this to be extremely problematic. The second idea, which came mainly from the ÖGB, namely from the women's group, was: Let's make an income-related care allowance. – beauty faults: Low incomes get less, higher incomes get more, and those who actually need it – the housewives, the students who have little employment – get nothing at all. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How about unemployment benefit!]] Therefore, this model is right, I must honestly say, disappeared in the drawer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Then for a time it was said that the surpluses in the family fund were – these were SPÖ ideas; I would point out that! – not to give to the families, but to use them to reduce the additional wage costs. – I don’t understand that at all, I have to say honestly, because I want to help the families. That's what we stand for, and that's what we're doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is for us a question of justice, fairness and also of basic social policy. You have a right on one point – that is, I would like to admit – that it also needs to be concerned about childcare facilities if we honestly consider it to be compatible with the work and family. But you know very well the situation, ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs. Ex-Minister Prammer also knows: This is primarily the responsibility of the countries and communities, which save hundreds of millions, not to say billions, through the introduction of this child money. Under the chairmanship of Ms. Landeshauptmann Klasnic, the federal states in Grazer Burg have decided that they want to focus on this very topic – childcare facilities. They make this much more realistic! Under the wise and human chairmanship of Mrs Land Captain, not only is he spoken, but he is also acting there. – You can only criticize. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And beyond that – forget about it You do not; this is mentioned here, because then you are responsible –: In six countries, SPÖ is responsible for family and child care. [[Abg. Swimmling: And where does the money come from? Last-class!]] So take these openly expressed points seriously! The money that is saved can and should be quietly invested in childcare facilities. Then we would have everything: more money for the families, the freedom of choice for women, especially for the single mothers much more design possibilities and the better compatibility of work and family through childcare facilities. Vote, then you will get everything we should want together!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8613	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. The speaking time for the next round was set by common accord at 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8643	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs Haller, you know, this is the difference between you and us: I am personally proud to be an emancipated woman, and the SPÖ is very proud to be able to make emancipatory politics with me. That's the difference! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Obviously, it is not enough for you to do what you did for the Austrian families in the first 16 months of your term of office. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] A few keywords: Removal of non-contributory health insurance, student tax, pension reductions, ambulance fees. – The list is so long; I don’t have so much time to list all that you’ve supposedly done in the interest of the Austrian families in these last 16 months. They are talking about a paradigm change; this is already happening several times today. Yeah, he's actually taking place! You're going to get rid of the mercenary's money. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why "replaceless"?]] Tell the truth! Make They do not bocks, but tell people the truth about what is actually to be decided here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haller and Mr Achatz.]] They make it very, very easy. They make themselves and speak of freedom of choice. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... your thoughts! That's incredible!]] One of them says: Family or profession! I hear this more and more often: Family or profession. This is not what the people want from the young women in Austria. They want a family and a job. They both want to put them under a hat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What still needs to be blamed on you today for this child's money refers not only to the measure as such, but also to the like. And if you do not believe us, the opposition parties, then I would recommend you look at the assessment documents again. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:..., you have become very weak!]] That's what it says, among other things – I quote –: However, by limiting the award to 200 000 s and the absence of part-time leave, better qualified women are disadvantaged and fathers are no longer encouraged to take advantage of leave. - Quote. Do you know who wrote that? – The Ministry of Finance! Your Ministry of Finance has said this in the context of the assessment of the Child Money Act. But not even the Ministry of Finance is given hearings by the government parties. I brought a whole bunch of papers there; You just need to dig this up in your offices. There have been made by dozens of lawyers, by the board of lawyers and many others more very good, qualified opinions, all of which have struck the wind. But let us come to the facts again. It's just not true, even if you say it a hundred times here: For the most part, for about half of the former cardiac payers, there is no more money, but less! So far, everyone in this house would have to be able to expect to know that 6 100 S – and 6 100 S have now at least around 50 per cent of the cardiac payers – are more than 6 000 S. But you put the bill on your head and say: 10 percent increase! They delete the family surcharge, and this reduces the performance for many people. They're talking about poverty prevention. I'm really wondering: Is that your only answer to poverty prevention? What about the pregnant student? There's no child allowance yet. What after the child's third birthday – or actually one should say: two and a half years of the child's birthday – is a student? [[Abg. Haller:... another deadline!]] Is the student not poor anymore? What's she doing? What's she doing? What considerations do you make in this question? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She hasn't gotten anything yet! What did you give the student? - Zero!]] – We have presented a concept of need-oriented minimum security. The need-oriented minimum security would solve the problem. I'll tell you something. Not every student is poor. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's good!]] Whoever believes every student is poor, he's wrong. And not every housewife is poor either. You too are mistaken, ladies and gentlemen. When it comes to poverty prevention, it needs a clear concept, a concept of real minimum security, which is labour-oriented. And we've presented this model. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zierler: We are glad that we have a women's minister!]] They push – and that has already been said – women out of work with this division: here is money, because labour law. A young woman will wonder if after the two-and-a-half years in which she is with the child – and it has already been everywhere today that this is actually what you want: that both of them cannot be put under a hat – returns to their workplace and suddenly has to find that the job is gone. These are the truths about your proposal! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the truth, not the truth!]] And I also wonder what Mrs Papházy did in the meantime. I was also present at this event, which has already been quoted by Mrs Petrovic today. There Mrs Papházy said, yes, the free women have a very, very strong influence on the Minister of Social Affairs, and this influence will be so strong that this division – the protection of dismissal, the limit of merit and so on – will certainly still fall. Who's really gotten through now, huh? Ladies and gentlemen? Just family support looks different, and modern karenz law also looks different. I can really write that to you in the main book! Because of copyright dispute: I can act as an apologies. Not the liberals have won, the ÖVP has won. The ÖVP in Upper Austria and Landesrat Hiesl were the first to come with this ominous idea. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Grandruck.]] He has a second in the "busch": the family tax. That's what he's going through all over the country again. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have a suggestion?]] What other countries, such as Germany, are doing in order to get back on a reasonable, modern way is: first: an income-dependent care allowance, second: away from family taxation. That's where you start turning – back to the past! You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, go back to the past, no one else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They talk about Norway so often. Yes, in Norway the conservative government has introduced child money for over two and a half years. Just, you're hiding half of it. There you have not put the income-dependent care allowance out of effect. In Norway mothers and fathers can choose: the first 42 weeks 100 percent of income replacement or the first 52 weeks 80 percent of income replacement. Norway, which you always bring as an example, has also gone a completely different way. Only: What did the kid's money do there?In fact, we fear this also for Austria. The municipalities have leaned back and meant: Now there's this money anyway, you can pick it up. Stay at home and take care of your children! – And with this, childcare facilities have risen enormously. The young families there can almost no longer afford the childcare facilities. I promise you that this will be the case in Austria. Those people, those mothers, those fathers who need childcare, will no longer be able to afford them. Our path is another: a modern karenz law, a co-existence of the sexes. Together the best for the child – this is a concept for the future, and not to push the mothers back to the stove!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8902	Next item is the report by Mrs Zierler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8924	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Revered Federal Minister! High house! Allow me to start with a quote from Oscar Wilde, which after the last speeches seems very appropriate to me: The world's biggest rebellion is the woman in constant uproar against herself. – You have proved this clearly and clearly, ladies of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also a bit embarrassing sometimes if you always need to correct and perhaps even teach fellow parties. But if Mrs Prammer mentions that the cash will be removed without replacement, then I must reply: Yes, the karenz money will be deleted, but not replaceable. It is replaced by a much better model, so you can't talk about deleted. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Mertel, who managed to produce two historical fauxpas in one speech, said: The Freedom Party speaks of freedom of choice. – Mrs Colleague, you said: We are not talking about freedom of choice, we are creating freedom of choice! And we succeeded. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Collegue – or: Mr Comrade – Gusenbauer, who unfortunately is only present when he has a performance, and no more afterwards, has meant: They should think of women and not ideology. – He was written in the main book – to quote you, Mrs Prammer: We are thinking of women, and that is the new family policy in Austria! The SPÖ is very excited and has now suddenly developed a chaotic piece of work. She presents one model after another, according to the motto: The crowd's doing it! But that's not it. The SPÖ has had 30 years, has failed all family policy measures, has been saving families, has reduced family benefits, and the new proposal, also by Mr Klubobmann Cap in the press hour, reads: All the money in the childcare facilities! So once again the red ideology, the thought: How do I make it possible for women to give up their children as soon as possible? Mr Cap, the Taferl did not help anything you had in the press hour. You have taken up a very good idea from our Carinthian country captain, but a copy is always worse than the original. And so it's also with your model of the "Karenzgeld plus". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The model of the ÖGB women has already been addressed several times: income dependent, poorer, richer, richer, and those who have not worked – and this also says so inside – do not get anything. I would like to ask you: How do you define "work"? How do you define the work of women, how do you define the work of housewives, of mothers? - That's not a job for you. Therefore, according to their models and according to the policies of recent years, these women had no right to financial support. They did not have a right to karenz money, Mrs Prammer; this has been deleted. There is now children's money, and all women in Austria have a claim to this child's allowance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For example, Mr. Comrade Gusenbauer also lamented for the part-time absence. That's what I'm asking myself: Is he sufficiently informed about this? Does he even know the corresponding numbers? There were not even 4 percent of women who took part-time leave – and he also said that there is still this possibility. Or the Father's Care: All the SPÖ measures were for nothing. Excuse me, the word "for nothing" is not right here: They were in vain. Millions and millions of millions have invested in campaigns. Everyone remembers the half-and-half action. This cost a fortune, and the result was: 1.6 to 1.8 percent of the fathers went to Karenz. Today the poverty report has also been referred to again and again. I assume that you know the time period of this poverty report and who is responsible for this situation in Austria. And I hope you know who is the most affected: child-rich families, single-schoolers. And that's what we're going to be against! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Petrovic has criticized the lack of female names in the draft law. [[Abg. Kiss: That was her first concern!]] – Unfortunately, she's not here either. The interest in the discussion is truly limited by the opposition parties. I would like to be right to Mr Petrovic, but I would point out that a label on a paper does not provide support for the Austrian families. I do not think that it will really help the Austrians for months on end. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ in the government has neglected family policy, divided women into two classes, and is now trying – however, very unsuccessfully – to make the child's money maligned. I don't know any SPÖ woman in Carinthia – where the child money is already paid out – I don't know any SPÖ woman in Öblarn, where the child's money is already paid out, nor any greens who wouldn't use the child's money, who feel the child's money is a disadvantage. [[Abg. Jäger: One!]] I don't know, there's no woman who refuses this child money! If you had more proximity to the citizen, you would know the mood in Austria, then you knew how the family policy of this new government is taken up – you can also read a study in the "FORMAT" – then you knew that there is a broad back cover across all parties. But since you do not have the proximity to the citizen, I would like to read to you a letter from a young woman from Vienna – the name and address are known – who writes: Concerns of a single mother and many other mothers. I'm 33 years old, mother of an eight-year-old daughter, a two-year-old son. I welcome the introduction of child benefit, because I have the opportunity to stay with my children as I would like to. I know dozens of mothers who want the same. It should only last longer than three years. - Quote. [[Abg. Silhavy: But the lady doesn't get any more!]] She had big problems. Her child had to go to the kid's crib at the age of one and a half years. Her days were over. The child was bad, it had great problems getting used to. Carers were deducted, new ones came. Everyone has tried to convey his kind of education to the child, she writes. Otherwise, I could have my child at home. That is a substitute for very, very many women in Austria, for many mothers, and that has been a wish of this woman. Support us, do something for it! We'll do it. We have increased the financial allocations by 357 S per month. We have increased the period of reference, and above all, all women in Austria receive the childcare allowance from January of next year. We're not making a two-class policy! All women: Farmers, housewives, self-employed, minor employees, students; all women receive this child benefit. The FPÖ has fought for it for ten years – and has kept its promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9086	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9107	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Zierler, it simply doesn't get any more true, even if you repeat it a hundred times that all women in Austria receive this childcare allowance. Some of us today have tried to make it clear to you that you are saying the untruth here. It's just not right! For example, it is not true – as my colleague Petrovic has already said – that every woman gets it. If she deserves too much, she doesn't get it. If she still wants to divide it together and earn too much, she won't get anything. [[Abg. Kiss: What's going on now? Answer the question! What's she doing now? Answers, not just words!]] They always claim that every child receives this child's allowance. That's not true either. You know that when you read the bill exactly. Every child doesn't get the money! If, for example, there are twins or drillings, this family only receives 6 000 s once and not two or three times. And what if, within these three years, a family first receives a child through which the claim is based, and then a second child? Does this family get six thousand s twice? – No, Mrs Zierler! No, Mrs Steibl! No, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is that an additional request?]] She only gets 6 000 S. That doesn't mean all women get the child's money. Tell me the truth at last! Tell me that's not true! Tell me at last that what you're constantly saying is just not true! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think you've become victims of your own propaganda, so to speak. Klubobmann Khol has also said that every child receives every woman. Mr. Klubobmann! Your own propaganda is good and beautiful, but that you step into the steps of the liberals and say here: That's all they say! Admit that it's not true! Admit that not every child and not every family gets it! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Every family!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You said everyone could get it. I've listened to you very carefully. The Kan-Determining means that there are many exceptions: for example, if both earn too much. Or if – and that must be your concern – self-employed people who at the beginning of the year do not know exactly how high their income will be at the end of the year, by chance have a big job before the end of the year. They'll have to pay everything back? This is really very "social" and very "promotable" for the families! The Federal Chancellor also said that Austria would be made the most family-friendly country in Europe. Federal Chancellor! They have also said that you know that there are many forms of living together, that one must recognize in an open society, and that the family needs protection. You didn't say exactly what families you mean. But I suppose you mean a certain family image, which is also so anchored in the heads of the ÖVP and the FPÖ that you do not dare to publicly also promote a different family image. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Today, families are much more than father, mother, and some children. In the meantime, you're saying, single-schoolers may be families as well. I don't know if you really see it that way, but you might recognize this direction. In your minds, however, families are still primarily married couples with children. They should recognise modern families as broad as they are represented in this society, as it is, for example, in the report of the European Parliament, which is being discussed there today, on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] For example, it says that the number of non-traditional families and single parents in the Member States is constantly rising. They should recognize this and should not only recognize the traditional family image, but also families in which there are lesbian and gay parents. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And you're asking: How's that going? – You know that very well, and you probably know lesbian couples and gay couples who live with children who have their own children. What about those? Does the partner of a lesbian mother also have the right to child care, or is that not a family for you? Then say, No, families are only different, if at all, only married!Unknown term type: "%s".? Can this woman use the six months or not? – I would like to hear this answer from you. [[Abg. Achatz: Quite clear and conscious: No! Quite clear: No!]] Quite clear: No, no, no, – That is, you discriminate against families. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is to say, you discriminate against families, and you are quite clearly in breach of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which you too, Mr Bundeskanzler, at least took note of. [[Contradict with the Federal Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, sitting on the Government Bank.]] That's what it's called in Art. 21 – I may read it to you: Discrimination, especially – and then many are listed – on grounds of sexual orientation, is prohibited. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then it's not a family!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Then there are no families! It's about families!]] If you take this seriously, ladies and gentlemen, then there are families in which two women are parents, families in which two men are parents because they have children. There are. They also exist in this country, even if you may not want to believe it. I know some of them, and they have the same right to be recognized as a family, and they have the right to receive childcare allowance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] This is why: They discriminate, and there is not this childcare allowance for everyone. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Two women can't have children! A ridiculous argument! There are no two women as parents!]] Maybe I should read you a pass. I have already quoted the fact that this Charter of Fundamental Rights states that this discrimination is prohibited. The motion for a resolution, which will also be debated today in the European Parliament and which will be interesting, like the European People's Party, the Christian Democrats, have abstained in the Committee; I am curious whether the Christian Democrats will vote tomorrow, because it also says that discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is to be prohibited and condemned in the criminal or civil code, in every Member State. That is, if the European People's Party, if the European Parliament will vote in favour, it is once again the case that Austria, as a member country of the European Union, does not respect these fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to give you the opportunity to send a signal that you are still willing to respect fundamental rights in the European Union, I am putting in place a motion for a resolution on changing the right of holiday. Something quite simple: the right of vacation, which regulates care leave for sick family members. [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9332	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Ollinger, Mrs Freundes, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9357	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek, I must clarify an error: Not the child receives the child's allowance, but – it is called "child care allowance" – the mother or the father receives the childcare allowance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Each family or mother or father has the opportunity to shape income in such a way that the annual income remains below the limit of 200 000 S. So far, the income limit was below 50 000 S per year or 4000 S per month. The current system is a considerable extension. You must also remember that 11 percent of mothers or fathers have not yet received a pension at the birth of a child. The percentage will be very small, yes, it will be a promille rate of cases where there is a corresponding income that will not be abandoned and where therefore no reference of child care money will be possible. The right to pension funds has so far been linked to a self-employed employment relationship. That was the great social injustice. Students, students, housewives – and, as a rule, housewives with several children – who have two or three children are no longer able to take up employment, nor are they part-time. These women have not taken care of any other child, although they may have been in employment before the first child. I really must say that today's legislative decision is a big step, a milestone towards more justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A millstone!]] Karenz money financing was started in 1979, at the time with 25 percent of the family tax compensation, increased later to 50 percent and then to 70 percent. In the case of child care, 100 percent of the family allowance fund is paid. Thus it is no longer an insurance benefit, but a benefit of the company. It means family compensation funds! I have already mentioned that the compatibility of work and child care is now much better, because, so far, one had to get karenz money, one had to be below the limit. We have a lot of such cases. A young farmer, for example, who had previously been in a job relationship and then married, has not received any benefit if the unit value was greater than 54 000 S, so if the income was considered to be above the level of low-security. She paid all her contributions before, but then she didn't get any karenz money. And that was a real injustice so far. From a budgetary point of view, the pension fund has long been approved by the insurance institution. From this point of view: This is also a contribution for vulnerable persons. The poverty report repeatedly mentions that child-rich families often fall below the poverty line. That cannot be the objective of legislation! Children are such a valuable part of our society! Unfortunately, we have seen a very sharp decline in the number of children in the last ten, 20, 30 years. On average, there are only 1.2 children per family. Thank God there is a professional group I would like to mention here, namely the farmers who on average still have three children per family. To be no dying state is to live with it. For these reasons, in recent years we have worked really specifically in this direction. I recall the 1999 tax reform. At the time, it was a hard fight against the former coalition partner SPÖ for better consideration of children in tax law. We were helped by the Constitutional Court, which also found that children have to be taken into account in tax law. We decided in 1999 to benefit the children of 12.6 billion Schilling. And if 9 billion more schilling is added now, within three years it will be more than 20 billion schilling, which we pay for the families, for the children from the family compensation fund and from the budget. A family – and please remember – with three children will receive about 28 000 S per year in 2003 more than she has received in 1998, because we have raised from the third child in the family from 400 S to 500 S in addition to the childcare allowance of 6 000 S. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: With three children 5 300 S less!]] And in 2003 there will be a further surcharge of 100 S per month or 1 200 S per year for children from three years of age. The proposal by SPÖ President Gusenbauer: no pension fund for students, none for students, none for children-rich housewives, none for farmers, none for self-employed, but for increasing family support by 5,000 s a year is really not a step towards more justice. But this proposal should not have been agreed even in the SPÖ, because I have an issue here of the trade union federation, which you ask for a staggered karenz money: Whoever deserves a lot of money should get a lot of karenz money. So if you earn about 36 000 s, you'll get 15 087 s of karenz money. Whoever earns little is supposed to receive a much lower karenz money, and those who don't earn anything are not supposed to get any karenz money at all. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] However, we have also been concerned about how to improve childcare especially in the country. We have planned a joint action with the farmers and the Austrian relief plant. We want farmers to be able to take part in the acquisition by teaching themselves in a pedagogical way and to take up school children or smaller children at the farm, so to speak, a day-mother scheme. We will try to create additional childcare facilities across Austria, so that the woman can be employed at least in the form of part-time employment in addition to the child care allowance. In Austria we have a very positive development among the day mothers: Almost every year, the number of day mothers in Austria doubles. I believe that this legislative decision, which we are taking today in this House, is a very big milestone in terms of more justice for families and also a big milestone in that all women – or men – in Austria in the case of the birth of a child can receive the childcare allowance in the future. We are pleased – since we have been fighting for the farmers for decades and in 1990 as the first step towards part-time aid – that full social justice and equality can now be achieved in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9434	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9455	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add a few more things. There has been a great deal of talk about childcare facilities and the social-democratic group has come to the address of the Federal Government that this area is no longer provided by the Federal Government. I should like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, especially Mrs Prammer, to the fact that, within the framework of the AMS, there is a separate programme for re-entry women, which includes a comprehensive list of special measures for women, so that they can take a better foothold in their working lives than in the past, and that this programme provides for a childcare allowance for 16 000 child care cases in 2000 and today's estimates for about this year. This is about 115.8 million schilling last year and in this year about 120 million schilling of federal funds spent on extending the opening hours and improving childcare facilities. In addition, I would like to tell you that in 2000 the labour market service spent 120 million schillings on improving the situation of childcare facilities and in 2001 will spend 150 million schillings in order to put additional funding for re-primary women into work. So it can be said that both measures will together account for about one third of the volume of kindergarten billions available in the past for these purposes, because in the first year the kindergarten billions are known not to require billions of federal funds, but only 586 million, and in the second year only about 600 million. So I can see that although the federal government is no longer spending the same amount of money, it is also putting in place measures in its area, which, on the basis of the constitutional situation and federalism, would actually come to the countries and the municipalities. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that child care benefits are also an important health policy measure, namely the compulsory participation in the mother-child passport and an additional examination within the framework of the mother-child passport in the fifth year of life of the child, paid by the main association of the Austrian social security funds and the family compensation fund. The philosophy behind it is clear: Imprecise fatigue in the Austrian population needs to be eliminated again. There is an insufficient rate of vaccination in important areas, such as poliomyelitis, i.e. children's paralysis. It should also be noted that the entrance examinations in the context of the entry into school often come too late and, in the fifth year of the child's life, identify important, necessary health corrections in good time and thus improve the performance of comprehensive and for the whole life. I therefore believe that when you consider the whole package, the accusation that this federal government is thinking too short is clearly wrong. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the German model has been addressed here, it must also be stated clearly: Only if you take up child benefits in the Federal Republic of Germany for one year will you receive 900 D-Mark per month, i.e. just over 6 000 S. If you want to use the child money in Germany for two years, you only get 600 D-Mark for the whole time, that is significantly less than in Austria. In addition, it must also be said that there are clear and clear income limits in Germany, which differ in nothing from ours, i.e. at a comparable level. It is also true in Germany that when both partners devote themselves to childcare, only one of the two partners can be paid child care allowance. So it is not that if husband and wife stayed at home to care for their child, both would receive the child care allowance of 600 or 900 D-mark. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrian child care allowance is very positive compared to Germany, since it is paid in full for the full three years when both partners decide to care for children, i.e. 6 000 S, while the childcare allowance in Germany is significantly lower with 900 D-Mark for one year and for two years with 600 D-Mark than the Austrian childcare allowance. Both try – no comparison! We are much better here in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9516	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9538	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you have a peculiar view of an overall package of family policy measures: All that, where there has actually been concrete assistance to families in the past, measures that you have not abolished, like many others, such as the tax reform adopted in 1999 or the increase in family aid by 1. January 2000 has entered into force – all this is what you are getting out of today to start the attempt to weaken your package of loads a little. This is just an attempt, however, to be made by the Austrian population. In the last 16 months of your policy, there has been only burden on the families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Too bad you're not coming to television now!]] The Federal Chancellor stands down today and says: More cash for the families. – The Federal Chancellor knows exactly: 40 billion schillings have taken away the families in the last 16 months. Living – it's something important for families, for children to have a roof above their heads – has been massively expensive. They have not actually left out any area, not driving, neither the sick, nor the training, and thus the opportunities for the future. You've been massively burdened by families everywhere, and you can't disappear over that. I think you have already received the invoice for the elections in Vienna and in the elections to the Austrian University School. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a highly questionable issue that you are trying to argue here today, an issue of money that you have previously taken from the families in triple ways. There is thus an advantage for a very small part, perhaps for a short period of time. You could have talked about it, because in the past there was no student in Vienna who, if she had a child, would not have received any support – by the way, more than 6 000 S child care money from you. The Vienna student, who had a child, received 6 500 s in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this small area, you are creating this scheme, but at the same time it is also extremely damaging for women – a lot of disadvantages, especially as regards women's desire to be able to agree on child and work. I know that your picture of the family is none of the ones where women should have the opportunity if they are well qualified if they also want to put their wife in the profession to be able to reconcile work and child. I know, I know your publications, there is just the serving part and the ruling part. This is your ideology of division of work. I'm half-and-half. I think that is also more modern and appropriate to people's wishes. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Almost 650 000 Austrians who signed the Women's People's Desire supported the expansion of childcare facilities as a central requirement, but you ignore these wishes and concerns. [[Abg. Wenitsch: You didn't do anything!]] People don't want to get any ideological model grafted by you, they want to live the way they think it is, and therefore they need choice. And they only have choice if they also have childcare facilities. The live transmission in the Television is over, and the Federal Minister – and this also applies to the Federal Chancellor – leaves the hall, of course, because this is a subject that is not at your heart at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the liberals and the ÖVP:Where is Gusenbauer? Where's Gusenbauer?]] 650 000 people want to reconcile children and jobs, want appropriate measures in this direction, and you delete the kindergarten billions, you work in the opposite direction. You can't slip over that you don't make this money available. They draw up the funds from the labour market service, and this is about the means to help women get back on the job. They do not expand the courses that women should be able to get re-trained and to take up a qualified job again. Here you paint, here you shorten, this is your ideological model of family. That's not what young women in this country want, I assure you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And you have made a very important point in your action, namely, labour-law deterioration for women: There will be no termination protection for women. There's always a big talk here: Protection of families, protection of the interests of families. [[Abg. Wenitsch: Where's the deterioration, please? What has been so far, Mrs. Colleague? That's why you were chosen because you didn't do anything!]] That's not a protection, it's a balding, like in all areas. In the last 16 months, you have launched a social shack, a democratic shackle – the bill for it will be presented to you. Social democracy stands for a positive model of the family, for an open model, for a model that allows for partnership and also enables women to reconcile work and family as they think it is right, but not for your model, which is a ruling part, which is men, and a serving part. That's not what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9655	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9676	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker and all other speakers of the opposition have devalued and criticized this child care allowance, which is a milestone in Austrian family policy. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mühlenstein!]] Just, the criticism doesn't leave much. It is criticized that certain family benefits are reduced. I would just like to remind you, Mrs Bures, that everything has been shortened within the framework of the savings package in 1996 and 1997, at a time when you have put by SPÖ the Minister of Finance, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Social Affairs: The capital income tax has been increased, the turnover tax has been increased, the insurance tax has been increased, the wage and income tax has been increased, and the benefit has been reduced in its period of reference and amount, only to a large extent. The main criticism point of the opposition is the limit of merit. I have to tell you, it would have been better if there were no limit of merit. Then we would not have the administrative burden, it would be much easier, but it is not possible because in the past too much money has been spent in Austria, and a considerable debt has been built up. And the socialist finance ministers from Lacina to Edlinger and so on, who have worked here in the past, have cleared the family tax compensation fund, but not for family policy purposes, but for stopping budget holes. That's a fact! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Now we don't have that much money and have to work differently. I am glad, however, that this commitment limit is much higher than the one in the karenz money, because it is 200 000 S per year, i.e. 16 666 S per month. In the past it was only 4 076 s a month, which someone in the karenz was allowed to earn. This situation has now been greatly improved, and I must say that I agree. A certain professional group has been mentioned here, namely teachers. You can now also complete the teaching obligation below 50 percent. There will be a new definition of working time, from weekly to annual working hours. Then this profession also has the opportunity to use this new childcare allowance. The fact is, however, that there is a red-green government in Germany, which is also discussing a child's allowance, as it is called there. And Mr. Schröder copies the child care allowance imposed by our Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's not true! Unfortunately, you can't read even though you're Carinthia!]] Mrs Mertel! Child benefit as a service fee for child parents is the right approach. – So it has defined your party friend, Chancellor Schröder. That's it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In Germany, Mrs Silhavy, is now seriously discussed whether childless people should not be required more contributions to pension insurance as fathers and mothers in view of the pension rights they are entitled to. Discussing Your party colleagues in Germany! You, Mrs Mertel, know how benevolently child care money is accepted by the people of Carinthia. And now it is being implemented throughout Austria. I'm glad that's what happened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is now this brochure of the ÖGB women; it was also sent to me. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] If this is so criticized, I have to say to you: Those who criticize the limit of merit would, if it did not exist, be critical of the lack of a ceiling, I am convinced. In this booklet of the ÖGB women, the "Karenzgeld PLUS" is presented as an alternative to child care money. On the second page of this brochure "Karenzgeld PLUS": If a person earns 10,000 S gross, he will receive more "Karenzgeld PLUS" according to this model 2 794 S per month. And if someone earns 36 000 s, then he'd get 9 444 s more. – This is a distribution from bottom to top! That's crazy what you're planning here! That's inconceivable! And the students you've just been working for would not get anything, and the housewives wouldn't get anything. While the insurance scheme would remain fair, a balancing justice for those persons in Austria who have and raise children would not be produced, a fee would not take place. With the introduction of the childcare allowance in Austria, this Federal Government has succeeded in creating a stable basis on which further improvements can be built for the families, and in making our society more family-friendly. This means that the needs of families and the requirements for workers must be reconciled with the needs of the economy. Projects of the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations, such as the audit "family and profession" or the choice of women- and family-friendly enterprises, support this project, as well as the flexible offerings of training and further training measures that are now being made by the AMS in the course of the introduction of the childcare allowance. All these are benefits for young mothers, which promotes their education and training, increases their employment opportunities and facilitates them to re-enter their working life.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9754	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9776	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The importance this government attaches to family policy is recognized by the current presence of the members of the government here in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. And the SPÖ!]] – I talked about the members of the government. You're a little too early. But after the next elections it will be clear who's up there. Then we will be up there and make a good family policy again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the direction can already be seen by your actions, Mr State Secretary: The ÖVP/FPÖ government has managed to take away 43 billion schilling in a short time: Taxation of accident pensions, increases in fees, deterioration in the right to travel, the introduction of ambulance charges and so on. The speaking time is not enough to show all these measures and burdens. Mr Tancsits! I don't know what's so funny about taking away money from people when they're burdened. I do not know what you think about it, but I now know why Mrs Frieser meant that you should make an intelligence test before you are selected here. I understand now when I look at you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9823	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would ask you to be a bit more objective at the remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9839	Mr President. That was not my idea, which has been announced by Mrs Frieser over the media years ago. I just want to say that. And it wasn't clear to me all the time what she meant. I am just trying to understand what Mrs Frieser said at the time. [[Abg. Swimmling: But she didn't leave one either!]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, you have also managed to raise inflation. That means that people stay less money, but for that, life becomes more expensive. 43 billion schillings have taken them away, 9 billion have been resold – that is your family policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: In the European comparison, we are very good at what the inflation rate is going on!]] It reduces simply and simply to the fact that the families will be taken away net of around 34 billion schilling, and you will sell a mogel pack here! The interested parties already recognize that your "great throw" is only soap bubbles that crush very quickly. There are two options, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: Either you have not read this law, which you want to decide today, or you simply and simply say the untruth: Childcare benefits do not receive all women or all children. If you do not believe us as an opposition, I would like to refer you to a few comments. Office of the Vorarlberg State Government: ==References====External links==* Official website 12. ==References== Parents whose children were after 30 years of age. 6. In 2000, however, before 1.1. Born in 2002 and receiving a pension, the full amount of the allowance continues to be equal to the amount of the child care allowance. There is therefore an improvement in the provision of care to those parents who do not receive a pension. This inequality is rejected." – Opinion of the Office of the Vorarlberg State Government. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Catholic Family Association!]] We have a woman's captain in Styria, as you all know. The Styrian Government has also delivered an opinion on: "In accordance with the previous legal situation..., the family allowance is paid in the context of the insurance contract... The family allowance is not paid by the child care scheme. This leads to loss of income in the case of multiple-child families." So much for your poverty reduction, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP! Mrs. Landeshauptmann Klasnic will not want to be assigned to us either, I suppose. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also an interesting opinion from the Office of the Carinthian Government, which is probably not to be assigned to us either. The Kärntner Landesregierung notes that the karenz money account model, namely the possibility of being able to delay three months of karenz until the seventh birthday of the child, has not been taken into account in the Childcare Money Act. That means: Parents who want to save three months have to suffer from a deterioration in the current regime. – As far as the Office of the Kärntner State Government is concerned. The Austrian Bar Association refers to the fact that you have not adapted the working time regulations and the termination protection regulations and which deteriorations are due to them. The Court of Auditors also strongly criticises you in four points, namely in the different treatment of parents, in the new wording of the concept of income, in the financing of retirement periods and in the special scheme of health insurance. Either you have not read the opinions all, that may be quite, or you ignore them. In any case, these opinions are also very clear: It's just one thing you're talking about: It is about ideological, politically motivated retransformation and not about a family measure. You have to say that clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you follow our proposals, there would be a modern, open, partnershipal and above all family policy linked to fair opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9918	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9939	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Childcare money – as I think, all the very tired attempts of the opposition can’t stop – brings real freedom of choice for families for the first time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For the first time, there is no two- or even three-class mother society in this country. For the first time, child rearing is regarded as work, hence as working time and is also pensionable. For the first time – Mrs Mertel is not here – the money from the family compensation fund is also fully made available to families and is not foreign to purpose. I think you have to say that in this respect too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For the first time, the fathers are being offered a truly good offer to join the family in partnership, and for the first time, Austria is at the forefront of this regulation, primarily in Europe, which is a matter of family policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, there are many mothers and fathers who have contributed to this law. I would like to mention Ridi Steibl, but today I would also like to mention the pioneer for this idea, and that is Mrs. Dr. Romana Widhalm. Unfortunately, she died too early. She has driven through all the federal states and has spoken to us about ÖVP women and representatives of other organizations, so that this idea has come to be realized. It has done all the valuable preparatory work. I think it's good for us to think about her here and today and say: She was really the one who fought for it and took the first step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Many have then taken up this idea, such as the ÖVP women and the FPÖ, and also our Minister Martin Bartenstein – at the time still in another coalition – has made the proposal to the failure of the SPÖ: Karenz money for everyone. We did not only fail as a coalition partner at the time, but at that time we also had to read as a coalition partner on your election posters as the only comment on this proposal: [[Abg. Swimmlein: Especially in the elections!]] Women back to the stove! It was not fair how to deal with us in this partnership. At least now we have the right partner, and I believe that together we have really achieved a milestone in family policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In many negotiations, Minister Head has fulfilled all our questions and many more wishes. Thank you many times for that! I also have to say that the Socialist Party is very difficult. There's nothing worse. If you explain: Everything's bad! Then you have to tell me why. There are 9 billion more schilling, there are more people, both men and women, the period in which they can take advantage of this is longer, and there is more time for children. And then you come out and say, Everything's bad! That's the only thing you can resist. You have to explain this to us once: How can anyone be worse than now if there are 9 billion more for this referee group? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Then I would like to ask – perhaps someone can answer me: Thankfully, I received this proposal "Karenzgeld PLUS" from the ÖGB women. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This brochure says: "A must pay PLUS, then the discussions are over." I suppose the picture shows a pregnant woman, a SPÖ member, because it is also – well, Mrs Silhavy – that you are there: I would like to join the union. I want to know more about the ÖGB Women's Department. I support it. Mrs. Silhavy! It's a pregnant woman, isn't it? You already know your brochure? - Yeah, so it's a pregnant woman. [[Abg. Silhavy: Yes, I know our brochures!]] And on the next page the same figure says: Wow!, at least 8 427 S for mommy! Mommy, what kind of karenz money are you? – So I have to say that you should decide that women speak in this brochure, because as a woman, I don’t really like the fact that a woman and a child are the same figure in a brochure. If you've been talking about "take so much" today, you should, I think, consider such brochures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We take seriously the wishes of women, and we also take seriously that for the first time it should be so that women are not really excluded from family benefits; and I mean, we stand for that. We have also come to the speaker’s desk before the elections – including Rosemarie Bauer, who is no longer here today – and have repeatedly demanded that there be karenz money for housewives, for students. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Unfortunately!]] I would like to give an example here of a housewife with three children at the age of one year, four and six years – the father earns almost 450 000 S annually. – According to the old karenz money scheme, this woman receives zero Schilling for childcare! [[Abg. Silhavy: She does not get a big deal under this scheme on the basis of the transitional scheme!]] Under the new Carenz money scheme, this woman receives 180 000 S, and if you still charge family support for the children, then it is 392,000 S. I think that's something. If you want to agree that there is a bad situation, I do not think you are properly informed. The same applies to female students. [[Abg. You need the money to pay the tuition fees!]] They know many examples of students who have come into a very bad situation and who can really say to the child for the first time on the basis of this regulation, without having to rely on the support of their parents. You can choose independently in the future. Who are the housewives who today benefit from the karenz money? – These are not the women who get the first child, because they are usually God’s well-trained and previously active. It's the women who usually have two or three children. If you repeatedly point out the danger of poverty, I must stop that you will surely know from all the reports that especially the multi-child families and the single parents today are at risk of poverty. [[Abg. Silhavy: That was the opinion of the Office of the Styrian Government!]] That this is an essential step in avoiding these families being vulnerable to poverty, you can't say that here. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: 5 000 s less for three children!]] We know it's so with the young families that at the beginning the children are not the most expensive. Children cost more money, the bigger they get. We know that. All you have to do is say: In the first three years, care obligations to these children are greatest. We want and can solve this problem with this childcare allowance. This is our most important political goal. I also hope that the communities will invest the money they are saving themselves now in the childcare facilities, that they will really take into account the flexible work opportunities that exist today, that is, the situation of the parents. Together with the FPÖ, we of the ÖVP have taken a really big step and achieved an important political goal. We all know that it's not just a keyword, it's like reality when you say: Children's screaming is future music. In my opinion, the music of the future is a very good one.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10116	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10138	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Gatterer! You have claimed that there is nothing worse in this child care law. I don't think that's right. Rather, it is true that this childcare allowance will force women to leave the labour market in the future. [[Abg. Steibl: That you do not understand!]] Rather, it is true that this childcare allowance includes a lack of protection of termination – we have discussed this in the Committee – and employers have very good opportunities not to guarantee the workplace if the childcare allowance is fully used. [[Abg. Gatterer: What's worse now?]] Rather, it is true that this childcare allowance will be very heavy on pension and health insurance, and true is also, ladies and gentlemen, that this childcare allowance binds enormous funds and is based exclusively on families with children up to the third year of life. This is a criticism that we expressly want to hold. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: What is this word message?]] [[Abg. Steibl: Mr President! This is not an actual correction!]] Thus, for families with children older than three years of age, there will for a long time not be any shilling left to provide necessary support. This must be clearly and clearly highlighted and expressed. The criticism of the opposition parties to your model has already been articulated in many speeches, but not only are we criticised by the Social Democrats and Greens, but others too are not satisfied with this model. If, for example, the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce points to the massive burden on the family compensation fund created by child benefits and warned against increases in contributions to employers, the following should be added: The service providers' contributions to the FLAF are actually contributions from workers, because only workers generate and earn these additional costs in the truest sense of the word, so these contributions are actually employees' contributions. Thus, in reality, in the future, the workers finance to a large extent through their employers this child benefit, but this also for those who are not affected by any loss of income due to the birth of a child. That is what we think, in my opinion, is not social and fair, which is a pure redistribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: But you want 8,000 s for someone who doesn't work at all!]] Thank you for this note. Mr President, I would like to give you an example, and I would ask you to let me speak and then make yourself an opinion. I know a family in which he earns 20,000 s and she earns 15 000 s. Now a child comes, in the future the income of the woman falls away, she gets 6 000 s of child money instead. Altogether they had 35 000 S of family income, now they have 26 000 S, which is 9 000 S or 25 percent less. That's the situation you're dealing with. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Part-time career! What do you say about part-time leave?]] Another family: Only he, 35 000 S, deserves nothing, is supposed to be the same. They're getting 6 000 s now. They then have 41 000 S, i.e. 6 000 S and thus 17 percent more. I mean, it can't be fair that they get less and have a greater loss, while others who don't really need it get something to do with it. But here the views are divided. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: He didn't understand!]] If you did not understand, I must say that I can also give it to you in writing so that you can read it. From a social democratic point of view, it would be more social and just to strengthen those, so to give more to those who have a loss of income. The Federal Chancellor said today, specifically at 12.20 p.m.: This benefit of the childcare allowance has been achieved in full consensus with the family associations. In this connection, I refer to a letter from the Catholic family association of 20th century. June of this year, that is, a few days ago, which all Members received and in which strong criticism was expressed: Rights not applicable to each child. – Here it was claimed that every child will have it. Duration of claim: Single parents are disadvantaged. – This is our criticism, accepted and also held by the Catholic family association. Set-a-side scheme: There are two classes of mothers. – This is a strong criticism point. The protection against termination of only two years would be a disadvantage. – Our criticism. Her own Catholic family association, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, says and writes that. Mr Tancsit's view is gone, and Mr Christian trade unionist does not want to hear that, he does not want to hear it all. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Nuremberger and Mr Mag. Tancsits.]] But it goes even further: no valorization, no increase. Disappear from the family grants. – An destructive judgment. And here the Federal Chancellor of this Republic makes himself and says: Everything is accorded and out with the family associations. Ladies and gentlemen! The Childcare Act does not correspond to the social democratic ideas. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Thank God! We don't want to leave a million people on the verge of poverty!]] That is why this bill does not agree with us either.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10285	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10307	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we will then provide the SPÖ club with the number of hotline of the family ministry so that you can call from the SPÖ there and perhaps manage to recognize and understand child care money at some point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was one of the most important The aim of this coalition government is to give the Austrian family policy a new quality, to overcome the standstill in family policy and to end the setbacks. The implementation of our long-term call for family benefits has been possible, as the discussion of the last few days also shows, only with a party, namely the ÖVP. That is why this coalition is very important to the family, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 30 years of red social and financial policy have continually brought cuts in family benefits; it has already been listed today, so I can save it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] But one thing has not yet been mentioned enough, namely that the family compensation fund has been permanently removed by the red finance ministers to stop budget holes. These were funds that would have been granted to families. The result was a dramatic decline in birth rate. I have the impression that most are not yet aware of what this dramatic decline in birth rate means. We are far below the EU average, far below the level of the Western European countries. Another result was that many families have slipped to or below the poverty line. It's particularly bad – that's on the verge of it –: Young mothers who have fallen out of the karenz age after 18 months became special emergencies. It has been a shame to our society that young mothers who were happy with their child suddenly became a special emergency of this society after 18 months. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's all over now. Our answer to this is 9 billion schilling more for the families. Families and children are the foundation of our future, and therefore this investment is a good investment in the future. The opposition, of course, has a hard time finding arguments for child care in view of this positive project. It is not surprising, therefore, that the arguments of the opposition against this childcare allowance are becoming more and more absurd and that one does not frighten back from false reports. There's suddenly an increase of 18 plus 6 to 30 plus 6 months a bad situation – you have to explain this to someone in the final analysis. Or a quadruple of the limit of trust, a quantum leap in family policy – so far there has been a ban on the profession – is suddenly also a bad situation for you. The SPÖ's application for plus 5 000 S of family aid per year goes back to its emptiness because, again, a part, namely 11 percent of mothers and families, was still excluded from the insurance cover. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ's policy must be tied to a picture: They have managed to limit a child like this, for example, from family benefits. [[the speaker places the image of a infant on the speaker's desk]] Sage Please tell the Austrian citizens, tell this family why you have excluded this child or family from family benefits! The Greens now want to jump quickly at the end of the discussion with a populist request regarding the deadline scheme, but as we all know, it is not eligible for funding. The quality of the family policy of the Greens has brought Mrs Petrovic to the fore with her word-clave, because she meant that she lacked a few "inside" in the legal text. Ms Petrovic – tell her once again in plenary – your "inside" does not help any family or child. Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So there are no alternatives to be taken seriously to this day. They are calling for more childcare places. You really don't care about the falling birth rate. They want to control childlessness. This is a family ideology of the past, that is class struggle in family policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This is outdated and out, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrian families appreciate how important this new family policy is. I would therefore like to make one more of the many letters that have reached us and in which this is very fittingly formulated, to conclude. It writes here Mr. Alois W.: We children's-rich families thank you for this, as do all the young mothers who have gone out empty so far. Also, the former karenz payers will thank them, because they also get more. If they could already thank the little children, too, because they now have greater chances that their mommy can stay with them. Finally, the whole country will be grateful when more children are born again and have a somewhat calmer growing up at least in the first three years. Bravo! You did well, just like that. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== July 2001 is a good day for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10424	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10445	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weinmeier, on the development of family policy, I would say that a prominent politician once meant: "Learn history!" - That's the first one. Secondly, If you claim that the child you have shown is excluded from family benefits, then I must resist this: Who now brings the child care allowance – adults or children? As far as I know, the family allowance is a support for children, and all children in Austria are not excluded from these benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! Childcare benefits, child allowances, family people's desires, which we treat today, among other things, measures that, as outlined, should and should support families, people with children. However, it raises the question of whether all proposals on the aspect of partnership, equality and equal opportunities are taken into account. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Better than the karenz money!]] My impression, Mr Fallent, is quite different. It should be noted that the child's money has a certain model of society in mind and has established fixed roles. On the one hand, this form of financial support eliminates the condition of the majority of care, so it is not a child care allowance either. On the other hand, money is not paid out for each child, so the term "child money" is wrong. To the call of my colleague Kiss, the "Well and?" In connection with a statement by Mrs Petrovic, I would say that Professor Marin once called this money "Pascaremia", and I think that brings it to the point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The so-called milestone of this government emerges more than ever as a millstone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: You cleared it away today?]] It means less to many than a more than it was in the case of karenz money. Women are driven out of work and thus out of self-employment, it means an out-of-carriage for fathers, and it is an additional millstone for single-parents. I claim and state: Child money or labour security – this is the question, because both become difficult, complicated and impenetrable. Child benefits and labour law are not harmonised. [[Abg. Steibl: Because you don't understand!]] – Mrs Steibl, perhaps I do not understand, but why is the same in many opinions? For example, the Committee on Equal Opportunities in the Ministry of Finance, the Pharmacy Chamber, the Bar Association – all of them wrong?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: How did they rate the karenz money?]] Everyone finds that this law is not comprehensible that it is difficult and complicated. They're probably all wrong. Overall, the question of total funding is also being questioned. I would like to remind you of the opinion of economic fidelity. In my opinion, the so-called freedom of choice will become a farce. The compatibility of work and family will be difficult, and there can be no more talk of equal opportunities. The operators of the family popular desire are satisfied, where, as you meant, Mr Steibl, not all the demands of this desire have been fulfilled. We are not satisfied, ladies and gentlemen. We have also pointed out in a resolution what measures we call for by Social Democrats. A word about Mr Khol to finally clear out a Mar, even if he is not there: Working women are also mothers and housewives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are concerned with all children, because children and parents need infrastructure, service and service facilities as well as cash benefits. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The main aim of this proposal is to increase the family allowance by 5 000 s and to make it an important prerequisite for the reconciliation of work and family, namely the provision of adequate childcare. This request calls for the provision of a billion schilling over the next five years, because, ladies and gentlemen, children need love, what you emphasize, what we emphasize, and time. Children need parents who have sufficient time, money and qualified childcare facilities. Child benefit is not a family policy progress and promises effects that are not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10576	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, and is sufficiently relevant to the subject matter of the negotiation, with the result that the debate and the subsequent vote will be taken. The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10600	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The child care allowance, a long-term demand of the Austrian People's Party and also of the family popular desire, will benefit all families with grandchildren throughout Austria. It represents the provisional crowning of the family-friendly policy of the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The ÖVP is family-friendly because we stand firm with our families. The intact family was and is the foundation of our society. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: your idea!]] This government has set a milestone in family policy with the childcare allowance. With this family policy performance, the care and education of children are recognised as an indispensable performance of the parents in the interests of society as a whole. For the first time, with the childcare allowance, families have real freedom of choice, whether they want to take care of their young people or whether they want to use a care facility. It is therefore also an essential contribution to the better compatibility of work and family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Especially from the point of view of younger families, child care is a great success. It is particularly important that, for the first time, students, a group that has not previously been entitled to any financial benefits, receive a claim to this family benefit. Now they too have the freedom of choice to shape their lives according to their ideas, and to plan the safety, their life and their careers more easily. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us speak a few figures for ourselves. According to the main association of social security funds, care was paid in the previous month to 76,887 pensioners. This is the highest level in this year. In all, the number of Carenz money recipients from January 1997 has fallen from 111,698 to 76,887. So it is high time to counteract the steady decline in birth rates with the effective and genuine promotion of families and finally to acknowledge more fully the performance of families for our society! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The entitlement to child care benefits will be extended in 2002 to self-employed, female and female farmers, which will increase the number of members of the family by around 50 000. A total of almost 127 000 people will receive the new childcare allowance next year, according to a survey by Statistics Austria. The karenz money, ladies and gentlemen, is currently 5 643 s and is granted to single parents for a year and a half and a half and for two years. The child care allowance, on the other hand, will be 6 000 S and, if both parents take care, will be paid for three years. That is to say, the old karenz money has a maximum of 137 000 s for both partners, while the new child care allowance will be 216,000 s, bringing a plus of about 80 000 s. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Povysil.]] – So much, ladies and gentlemen, from the left, to alleged social injustice that you always predict and condemn. We have made a real expansion of the relationship, namely those who need financial security, such as students, students and housewives, we have introduced an extension of the claim by at least one year or one and a half years, and there is a much higher performance. In addition, 18 months of pensionable contributions will increase security and facilitate self-sufficiency. Due to the significantly increased yield limit of 200 000 S per year instead of 4 076 S per month or 48 912 S per year – this has been more than quadrupled! – will allow for a much greater freedom of design and choice, apart from the individual care of the child. Whoever, in view of these facts, is still talking about a bad situation for women and the families, who comes with unbridled concepts at the last minute, like Mr Gusenbauer and his comrades, and does not even know – he has not mentioned today in his speech – that the family aid will be increased by 1,200 p.m. from 2003 onwards, obviously wants to make a good point for all families in this country by force. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: When?]] – Starting in 2003. But the SPÖ can quietly show in Vienna what it does for the families! However, if I look at the comparison with the countries governed by the ÖVP, I notice that the situation in Vienna is rather sad. Just one example: The parents in Lower Austria do not pay a kindergarten contribution – unlike the parents in the socialist Vienna. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A good family policy must be aimed at ensuring that parents do not permanently sink by their obligation to support their children in their own standard of living. About 150,000 children currently live on the poverty line in Austria. It must succeed to bring these children and their families out of this situation. Childcare is an important step in this direction. Austria becomes the most family-friendly country in Europe. [[Call:The World]] The family is the germ cell of the state, the central element of our society. Their well-being should be a concern to all of us – far away from any small-cared party policy and bad speech as the left is currently running it so often.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10726	The next speaker is Mrs Perfuss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10747	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Since I am already the eighth speaker of my group on this issue, our position is of course already clearly on the table. I therefore gather: I think that everyone in this house believes that having children and raising children is a beautiful, fulfilling task. I would like to contribute to this discussion of my very personal experiences. I'm lucky to have two sons. It is very important to mention her age: One is 31, the other is 26, that is, they are really out of the tomb. I accompanied, led the children along with my husband on the way to adulthood, and I can still support and advise them now. [[Abg. Gaugg: And that despite SPÖ!]] I am proud of them, they have become very important partners to me, and we take a very strong part in the life of each other. But as beautiful as it was and is, ladies and gentlemen, the task of childcare and education was a very difficult task, although I have received support from my husband and my family. [[Abg. Gaugg: Despite SPÖ!]] And the difficulties – I know from my own experience – have been potentated by the more I have focused on my further education and on my professional activity. A few decades ago, there was very little help for mothers who were going back to work or wanted to continue their education. I was lucky that there were already initial opportunities in specific areas, and I was happy to use them. However, I have had to catch up with child care in my circle of acquaintances, because of the lack of offers from the public side. [[Abg. Gaugg: Now they get money for it and can pay it!]] And I remember that it was often very unpleasant – listen to me! – it was often very unpleasant to have to use this help, because in a private relationship it is very difficult to create very clear, professional conditions. [[Abg. Gaugg: I thought it was all so great! Who was the Social Minister at the time?- Oh, my God!]] That's where you'll agree. [[Abg. Gaugg: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is thanks to God in recent years in the field of family promotion, in the area of women's promotion, has changed a lot, and it has changed for the better. [[Abg. Gaugg: The introduction of child care money is another step, but admit it!]] And the creation of childcare facilities has improved considerably among the Social Democrats, but also under the EIA through the pressure on the countries. Mr. Federal Minister. I've listened to you very carefully. The responsibility in this area lies with the countries; I give you the right to do so. But, Mr Federal Minister, it comes to political will, and your political will goes in a completely different direction, namely towards conservative family policy. You can stand for it, that's your line, the heart, so to speak. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: yours does not go in the direction of family promotion!]] – Don’t talk like that together! Excuse me, but that's really stupid!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10864	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would ask you to pay attention to a proper tone in terms of expression!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10892	Ladies and gentlemen! My fear is – that is why I have done it so precisely – it goes back in the direction that I have previously addressed from my own experience with my children, namely that I have so to speak missed child care. Because you're saying it's all wrong, I'd like to give an example. I would like to address the example of Carinthia. Since the children's check has been in Carinthia, the childcare facilities have become more expensive. This has the following two effects: If the childcare centre is more expensive, it is less used, and if it is used less, it becomes even more expensive. This is, as it were, a spiral, and at some point the circle closes. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like a different situation for our young women, for our young mothers, than I found them at the time. But with your babysitting check become You cannot solve the problems of the families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10928	Next, Mr. Bundesminister speaks at the head office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10949	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Parfuss, I would just like to draw your attention to some of the facts that have obviously not been taken into account in the debate. For example, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that this Federal Government takes into account a great deal of concern for many women and very many families by significantly extending and improving the opening hours of childcare facilities. I should also like to point out that studies carried out under Mrs Prammer have considered the lack of opening hours to be the more important argument for childcare facilities. It is true that in many regions of Austria, due to the decline in the number of children, kindergartens are closed again, because there are fewer children and therefore the communities can no longer afford to keep the childcare facilities open for the small number of children that are now available. I should also like to point out that I have said that the labour market service spends more than 280 million schilling – in 2000; next year a few million more: almost 300 million – for this opening complex of childcare facilities. This is an important argument because the opening hours allow very many women to return to work, to part-time work. . I ask you, Mrs Parfuss, to take note of this before you, with your statements in this regard, make more of a nuisance to the public than that would be justified. Secondly, I should like to clearly address the example of Mr Riepl. – Mr Commissioner, you have predicted: Family income: 35 000 S the husband, 15 000 S the wife, and if she receives the child care allowance, the family has less than 9 000 s. What is the situation now, the situation you have to answer from the SPÖ? – Man: 35 000 S, wife: 15 000 S, woman in Karenz: 4 000 s less than today; and no limit of merit, that is, only a limit of 4 000 s per month, or just over it. – We have a commitment limit of 200 000 s per year to stabilise the income at the level it used to be. Mr Riepl! If you compare, then compare the same thing with the same and not the same thing with the same thing, not to say apples with pears. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why I ask you if political fairness still has some importance in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10993	The next speaker is Mr Knerzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11014	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think that's the 4th. It will be a great social and family day on July. I also believe that through our government participation, we can implement a large election promise today. I really would have expected more from the former SPÖ government. When I consider that in the time of the SPÖ government participation nearly 1 million people have approached the poverty line, I must already note that 10 billion schilling grants to the Austrian families cannot be referred to as "fall" and "griefance". I think that's where you really got out of your choice of words! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! With polemizing and non-help you have already qualified yourself "best" here. We think differently about this and have now also used the opportunity to really put on the lever here and do what many Austrian families have long wanted. I know what I'm talking about. I've been able to present my pilot project here for six months. From this point of view, I have often told you that none of the 63 families in my home town of Öblarn are outraged that this project would not be justified or that it would otherwise be negative. Once again, I can tell you that this 6 000 S grant measure is the right way for our families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I also know, Mrs. Dr. Mertel, that it hurts you very much, that we have recognized the situation correctly, and that, although everyone believed that SPÖ was in favour of social aspects in Austria, you have come to a halt. That hurts! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... Family benefits! Social benefits! Ask Mrs. Haller!]] If you had listened to your basic officials, you would have had to know that they always thought the SPÖ was the guarantee for the family, for family policy decisions in Austria. But you probably had your thoughts elsewhere, and now sit You are splitting up with us as a political opponent, without being able to add something or bring it to a positive conclusion. I'm actually sorry! You still have the opportunity to agree to our model child care allowance today. That would be a nice gesture, and many of your basic functionaries would wish for it. Therefore, I would like to give you this recommendation once again: If you want to do something for the Austrian families, you still have the opportunity to vote with the government parties today. I think you have to thank the responsible one. One of them is our Social Minister Mag. Herbert Haupt. I think he's been doing the best he can here. Mr. Federal Minister! I want to thank you again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should also like to thank the Minister for Finance, the Secretary-General and all those who have been able to make a positive contribution here. This family policy is forward-looking for our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11079	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11100	Mr President. Minister! For four hours now, we have been discussing a measure to ensure childcare in our country. My previous speaker thanked all those involved very much. In my opinion, this law, which we are negotiating today, should be called "wind money law". [[Abg. Zelot: There are no more diapers! Pampers!]] I think – this shows the federal government's family policy – that children count for you only until the third year of life and then are no longer in the perspective of the political discussion. I ask you: Where do older children stay in your family model? What about those children who come to school later? – They are negated by you, their families are charged with fees and charges! Individual representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ always argue when older children appear and claim their rights in our society, rather against these children. In this sense, I think, the measure we are taking today is also a very narrow measure. It is likely to be disposed of by the families of our country, just as this is done with disposable whirlwinds. The ÖVP writes on her homepage that she sees the family as a self-help group. I know only in the context of self-help groups that they are founded by people who have special diseases, special flaws, special disabilities. That is why I have to give this comparison a clear rejection. The families of our society are neither provocative nor ill nor disabled, but they want to be recognized as equal partners in society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As this spirit, this thinking in family policy, and how it is put on by the parties of government, seems to me this way: The one party celebrates a festival, a "family festival", in which it clumsily clings to the families, a feast, on which cake pieces are only distributed to some, while the cake pieces for the rest of the children – more than 1.8 million children – are thrown away. These kids can, as it were, look through their fingers! The other government party is just sticking a blue heart to the chest. One of the previous speakers also had this plaque. – I want to warn you! As far as I can judge this medically, a blue heart is without oxygen and can therefore no longer beat. It seems to me that the FPÖ family policy has also gone out of oxygen, so to speak, and this measure, which you will decide by the government parties today, takes away the oxygen from the families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zelot!]] We Social Democrats represent an independent care for women, even if they have family obligations. We are in favour of self-sufficiency for men, even if they have family obligations. This measure, which we are discussing today and which will be decided upon by you, will, however, lead to a decoupling of women from working life. Although 70 percent of the unemployed are paid into the family compensation fund and they finance this benefit almost themselves, they can write off the pieces of cake for the majority, so to speak. This freedom of choice, which you always speak of, is far from reality, because women can choose what they want: The cake or the heart without oxygen. I think the women want both family and profession. It is important for women and families that infrastructure and childcare are available. I would also like to ask Mr Klubobmann Khol that he refresh his knowledge a little. Children's homes and childcare facilities are not prisons, not institutions where children are "inlocked", but the children are very much supported there and prepared for life – in addition to the preparation by the parents. In my opinion, the infrastructure is also very important. For example, the cost of clamping teeth for children in our country should be compensated so that families do not have high costs in this area. [[Abg. Gaugg: That's the best!]] [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: You have rejected that! That's your rule!]] They have refused to provide support to families in the Family Committee. That's where you see it again: You're out of oxygen! As far as family support is concerned, Mrs Steibl in the Committee has argued that this is not necessary, and that then many more people would use dental clamps than is really necessary. I think that is very necessary! [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: This is your regulation!]] Finally, I would like to correct the Minister so that he can answer the letters better when families from Vienna write. It is true that someone who doesn't get a place in an urban day care home and is supposed to go to someone private, then gets social support as part of the acquisition of services, and that is also our responsibility and our view of social security. We want to divide the pieces of cake evenly between all families. Mr Westenthaler, I would just like to say that the Simmeringer election result has also shown that the Simmeringer families have given a clear rejection in the face of the Vienna elections of their family policy without oxygen. In this sense, I believe that this piece of cake policy must be given a clear rejection. We will therefore not agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11231	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11266	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Childcare money, toothbands, oxygen deficiency, cake pieces – I do not know, Mrs Colleague, how you stand on this important question at all, because I do not think there is any connection here. I am particularly pleased that the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria today is present in the entire discussion on child care money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This shows very clearly where the family party is at the end and who it is! [[Abg. She's in third place!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Children are making fun. Childcare money gives us great joy, very great joy, because at last – [[Call the SPÖ: But only you!]] You just need to listen! – no one is excluded anymore, because at last all those who receive a gross income of up to 200 000 S per year are really with them, no matter what task they carry out. If you have a problem with understanding: 200 000 S, which is four times as high as the current income limit on the benefit. That's why this model and this law is a good one! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With us, the child is finally at the centre of performance, and not any other things, because the child deserves to be supported. We have solved all the important issues in this context in an optimal way with this childcare allowance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ask the families with children where their problems lie! You will receive the following answer: For the first time, it is the compatibility of work and family. Secondly, it is the income situation. I mean, we've really managed to solve these problems, or you'd have told us today 17 times the same song from the "woman back to the stove". With this childcare allowance, we have finally given women the certainty of a safe income by means of an offensive measure, but also the opportunity to move more freely in their profession in accordance with their possibilities. They do not need to stop their work, but they can bring themselves in to measure at that time. That's it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Asshole: You have replaced the flock with the e-herd!]] In addition, the child care allowance – Mr. Schwemlein – will never be understood! – now also better integration into the pension system. – It has been good so far. You can't find a country where there has been a 48-month bill as a replacement time. That was correct. But that's gonna be even better now: We now recognize 18 months of these 48 months as contributions to compulsory insurance! And that's where you're opposed as social democrats?- Oh, my God! I wonder, Where is your social competence, ladies and gentlemen? This one is no longer present! They just talk more into the day without actually knowing what it's all about. Take a very, very concrete look at all of this – you'll definitely be easier to do then! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if you say a hundred times that all this is nothing: I tell you, if we make 9 billion schilling more money available to families, then that can't be a mistake! [[Abg. - That's right!]] [[Abg. Swimming: If you take away 40 billion before!]] When we take the money out of the family tax compensation fund – finally from there! – then that’s not a wrong decision! The Finance Minister of this Federal Government takes the money for the families. In recent times, on the other hand, the family compensation fund has been used to cover the debt of state finances. That wasn't the right way! – This our way is not only more correct, but it is also incomparablely better, and that is why we stand for it! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Scatter]] If you still have a problem with this, I'll tell you something: Read the German Federal Government's income report of the past time where you were with it! [[Abg. Sweamlein: Yes, Austria is the last place in Europe!]] There's inside: At risk of poverty are the families and the single parents, mostly mothers. – That is enough reason to finally act here, to take a legislative measure! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] We did that. You can be pleased that as an Austrian in this country, you know that there is a government that has a sensorium, a heart for the people who really need the help of all. That's us, that's this government, and you won't be able to agree with us in any way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Marking You are: The better is always the competition of good. If your karenz money was so good: The childcare allowance is definitely better! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Better!]] That is also the reason why you are trying so much to question all of this here. I could tell you a lot more, but time won't allow me anymore. [[Abg. Too much!]] Just one more thing: Are you actually aware that with the child care allowance we also value the health aspect of mother, child, family again? We are now calling for the examination under the Mother-Child-Pass programme again, because it is important that we expand the precautionary medicine in this area. – Look, this is a policy that can also be seen! You can't agree to that under any circumstances. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally: I believe that this is an interesting debate on a very important issue today. The decision we are making today is a fundamental, quite, very important, a forward-looking decision for the Austrian families!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11476	The next speaker is Mrs Freigaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11498	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Federal Chancellor! High house! I have listened very closely to Mrs Parfuss' statement, and I must say that I too have raised three children at a time of the socialist government. I have not done so well by far, I have not been able to benefit from such family benefits as is possible for women today. But I have to tell you, I'm gonna give it to these women! I commend the women that there is no more two-class society among mothers! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like them to be able to stay at home if they want, and I am pleased that we have succeeded in putting this true demand of the liberals with the government partner ÖVP into action. Mothers and fathers can now decide for themselves what the care of their child should look like. That is, they can decide for themselves whether to devote themselves exclusively to childcare or to using a mother or other childcare facilities. With the commitment limit of 200 000 s, we give women the opportunity to remain in the work process, and as a result they are also interesting as employed labour for the employer. Women who are dedicated exclusively to childcare are of course offered re-entry opportunities, because family work must not lead to exclusion from work. This child care allowance is an important family support measure, which can be financed from the family compensation fund, especially for single and young families with low incomes. As our childcare allowance is very welcomed by the population, the SPÖ peak and the ÖGB women have now also made their voice known. Mr. Gusenbauer and Mr. Cap are demanding 8 400 S for everyone. Here apparently the SPÖ tip does not know what the ÖGB women want. They have felt like putting their own model on their feet. How does this model look? – Mothers who are not employed fall through the rust – according to the motto: If you don't have anything, you don't need anything. Apparently the children of these mothers do not need good care. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Burket.]] According to the model of the ÖGB women, women with a gross income of 10 000 to 15 000 S would be 6 650 S – let this break on the tongue: 6 650 S! – less "cardiac money plus" than women with an income of 36 000 S. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This difference is not made available to socially weak people, but to women with an above average income. You need to think about it: Do you want to promote women with an above-average income?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Edler: What do you say about that?]] I just think that's terrible! - That's what I'm saying. I see the social policy of the Social Democrats as follows: Whoever has nothing needs nothing. Social weakness gets a little bit of something, and we absolutely need to promote the benefactors. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] - That's how the Social Democrats see it. As Peter Westenthaler said today: According to your politics, the rich would become richer and the poor would become poorer! In this context, I also wonder: How do you actually want to promote this child money model? How do you want to finance this? There is no money in the pot at all! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Edler.]] Do you want to do the same as you did before? [[Abg. Leikam: No money in the fund? – That’s a new insight!]] Do you want to leave the Austrians a sniper pile that we need to clean up afterwards? One thing I can say to you: Your "karenz money plus" model shows you haven't learned anything about it for the future. They're wasting money you don't have. On the other hand, we have created a child money model that we can also finance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We finance it from the family compensation fund. We are free... – Yes, that's great too! [[Call the SPÖ: "Super"!]] Finally, you see it! It surprises me: We sit here for hours and listen to your remarks, but it took so long until you finally see it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11624	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11646	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! According to the list of speakers, there are still a number of speakers who will speak on this item on the agenda. [[Abg. Sweam: Then let's get out of here!]] I did not find any SPÖ delegates among them. Apparently there are no arguments on the SPÖ side, or you are at the end of your Latin – or you have finally understood what this is all about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me, the childcare allowance is a milestone in this country's family-friendly policy. It's even more than that: It is a social policy policy for the future. As a member of this House, I am pleased that the ÖVP as a family party has succeeded in making the childcare allowance real for the Austrian families! Childcare is unique and exemplary throughout Europe. It is no longer an insurance service that is provided here, but it is paid to child care as such, because the education of children is an indispensable achievement of the parents who need to be recognized in the interests of society as a whole. What exactly does the childcare allowance bring to families? – Although it has been referred to here many times, I would nevertheless like to say one more thing: [[Abg. Swimling: Then say it again!]] More money, that is, 6 000 S per month, or 216 000 S – a plus of 80 000 S compared to old karenz money! Secondly, More time for the children. Up to 36 months or at least 30 months can be used – unlike 18 or 24 months so far. This is an important aspect especially for single parents. Thirdly, More mothers get to the benefit of the child care allowance, because now all are entitled to it, i.e. also farmers, students, students, housewives, self-employed. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Binder and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] The ÖVP is the first to take these groups into account. [[Abg. Swimmlein: No, the ÖVP is third!]] Every fourth woman over 30 years in Austria is housewife. These women, who could not have obtained a pension under the previous legislation, are now entitled to it. [[Abg. Dwarf: Third place!]] This was not possible with the SPÖ. Now we have managed, together with the FPÖ and with the Federal Minister Head! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Fourth: More independence and safety for women. 18 months will be pensionable contribution periods and thus facilitate independent retirement. Fifth, you open a bottle More service opportunities. A significantly increased yield limit of 200 000 S per year offers more freedom of choice and design in life planning. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's where the Minister Head shook his head! Why?]] The old karenz money has allowed only 4,000 s per month. Sixteenths: Family allowances will also be increased by 100 S per month for each child from 2003 onwards. Ladies and gentlemen! Our Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel has made family policy the heart of his government work. [[Abg. Silhavy: Now we know why the Red Cross is here today: because of heart failure!]] This is also important when considering that the birth figures in Austria have fallen dramatically. There are declines in all federal states! In Upper Austria, for example, the number of births has decreased by 14 percent since 1996. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the successful introduction of this childcare allowance, both in the government and here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the family-popular desire here, and in this context I may address the President of the Austrian Family Federation, Mag. Otto Gumpinger, quote: "The main requirement of the family people's desire was met by the introduction of the childcare allowance. Thus the family-popular desire has fulfilled 100% its purpose... The introduction of the childcare allowance is a historic milestone in family policy, and the family association is proud to have contributed to it." I am particularly pleased in this context as the Upper Austrian Member of Parliament, since in Upper Austria the family population has received by far the most statements of support, a total of around 64 000. I should like to stress here once again: With the introduction of the childcare allowance, a completely new principle is enshrined in family policy: For the first time, the child and his need for care are at the centre of attention, not the question of compensation for loss of income due to the obligation to contribute. This means that the child care allowance is a family benefit and not, as before, an insurance benefit. Finally, I would like to quote our Federal Chancellor: "A world with children is more colorful and life-worthy." The families are "the central element of our society." Therefore, our society needs to become even more family friendly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11797	The next speaker is Mr Hornegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11818	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For ten years we have worked on a turning point in family policy, first and foremost our head of state Haider and our family spokesperson Edith Haller. At last, ladies and gentlemen, the child care allowance is coming! There will be a freedom of choice that has never been possible for mothers until now. Ladies and gentlemen! This model was developed with the support of well-known experts and implemented together with our government partner, ÖVP. Mr. Schwemlein! Sit down! [[Abg. That's how you can talk to me in Salzburg, but not you with me!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] – ÖGB: "Stop!" – Your booklet has been printed like this! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the self-employed parents, self-employed women, farmers – what Mr. Schwemlein would like to represent in the Pinzgau – are also minor employees, free employees, students and housewives. I welcome the fact that this childcare allowance is financed exclusively from the FLAF resources. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Each Austrian working person pays 4.5 percent of his gross wage to FLAF, poorer than richer. Mrs Petrovic will not be present – no, she has already made her contribution – so I will address the question to the Green Group as a whole: Ladies and gentlemen! What would have happened if this limit had not been removed? Then what? What would you have done out there today? – You would have said exactly the opposite of what you have done here so far. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donabauer mentioned it: This childcare allowance is a very good measure. This is evidenced by the thundery weather that you, the opposition, are taking action against this. This proves to us that this is a measure that has been successful and will bring excellent results to the whole family! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to talk anymore, because it's all been said – I think I'm 30 or 32. Speakers, and after me a few more will come to the speaker's desk. Let me conclude by saying: With this family policy milestone, a courageous idea for the families is decided today. Please vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11884	The next speaker is Mr Kampichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11905	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the decision of child care money, the government proves to us that it thinks not only, but, above all, of election dates, but of generations. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Now you've talked into something!]] The government is therefore making changes for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In any event, today's decision confirms that we are thinking of the next generation and therefore make significant changes for future generations. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]] It is a proof to me that the government, if necessary and if it is good for the country, is also willing to act against the spirit of time. With this decision, ladies and gentlemen, the government is clearly on the side of the weaker. This action is characterised by a high level of social responsibility. The introduction of this childcare allowance also eliminates injustice: Injustice, above all, towards those who have so far been willing and will continue to be willing to raise children in the future. This educational activity, ladies and gentlemen, is now being valued. Finally, however, – and this has already been mentioned by many previous speakers – those who raise children will enjoy their own pension. Those who secure the generation contract with the education of their children are now also entitled to their own pension. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned that the introduction of childcare allowance also has an essential economic and economic factor. It comes at the right time, because through the childcare money, additional 9 billion schillings will flow to the market, which will have a very positive impact in view of the forecast flattening of the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Experts confirm that families have a relatively low income elasticity, so they have little room for choice in the family budget. Therefore, they will spend every shilling they receive in addition to this measure on things of daily need. That is, this money does not flow on savings books, it is not spent on foreign holidays, it is used for things of daily need and thus flows directly into the market. As the number of children in rural areas is still even higher, this money, in particular, strengthens rural areas in a very special way. Dear ladies and gentlemen! But this also benefits the government budget, because 2 billion schilling of these additional 9 billion schillings will be shown to flow directly into the budget. Here money flows from the family compensation fund into the budget in a regular manner. In the past, these funds were often estranged from purpose by being used again and again for budget corrections. Today, economic impulses lead money back to the government budget. Ladies and gentlemen! This government gives the families what they have to do with it, thus generating essential impulses. The government invests in families with children, and this investment is the best investment also in its own future!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11974	The next speaker is Mrs Burket. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11995	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything has been said about child care money today: Good, bad, true, untrue. Let me therefore make my remarks to ideological differences: For us, this child care model is an essential step in the context of a family policy that focuses on the human factor. This begins with childcare and ends with the accompanying of dying family members, which will be another important step in our family policy. The fact that we put people at the centre of our policies is one of the major differences between the previous government and the current style of government. To give the families security, instead of giving children first career steps in the Red Falcons the security of the family, to give women an actual personal choice between full-time or part-time or child care, instead of agreeing that they are sent back to the herd, and – in a logical addition to a family- and human-friendly policy – also the integration of the older generation instead of the deportation into old-age homes and, lastly, the possibility of accompanying dying close relatives – these are, in addition to all the necessary reforms, the main aspects of our family policy. If young couples today can decide to have children again, then they should know that in addition to this responsibility, in addition to abandonment and willingness to sacrifice – which always means parenting – our family policy also makes its contribution to facilitate this yes to the family. The previous family policy measures have exhausted themselves in state dependence. The aim was to put the little children into the nursery as soon as possible, childcare facilities, in the hort, later then the people into the community apartment and in the last consequence of course to the age home. The state control of private life in the form of all these benefits – in the case of benevolent behavior – was your model, and this was also at the expense of young people and their future through responsible debt making. Prosperity, behavioural conspicuousness – you call the "behavior" –, drug dependence – rising trend – so your family balance looks like! They understand that we are giving preference to our model.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12031	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12052	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Today's decision enables government and Parliament to achieve a truly historic milestone for families: ==References== In January 2002, all mothers and fathers are entitled to child care. As the chairman of the Upper Austrian utility farmers, I am particularly pleased that, as far as family benefits are concerned, farmers are at last equaled to all other groups of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We of the ÖVP have always put the intact family in the foreground – and the peasant family can certainly serve as an example. Today's decision will also entitle those population groups which have so far been excluded to child care benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! Since many figures have already been mentioned: If, despite these figures, you do not want to see that child care money is a major improvement, you have to call it a direct one of the little ghosts, otherwise the behavior of some here is really not understood. You really want to see the children from the SPÖ right after the birth in state care facilities, in hortens, in all day kindergartens or all day schools, so as far away from the parents as possible – then your socialist world is all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection and intermediate calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to encourage women and men to confess to the child, because children are the best investment in our future. With today's decision, the families win. Let us therefore decide together!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12113	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12135	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! High house! Social developments are progressing – despite all the Secretary of State and Women's Ministers. We must only allow these trends from politics, make them possible. And the new regulation on child money makes more possible for women than was the case in the past. I quote a recent SPECTRA study: Women are pushing the labour market. Over two thirds of our countrymen see a positive development in increasing female work. This is by 7 percentage points more than 1995. So far, however, the woman had to decide: either to earn it – or to give up the karenz money, either entirely or half of it. And there you don't need to wonder: There have been only 2,400 part-time workers; that is not more than 3 per cent – and that is ridiculously little, Mrs. Colleague. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The new system with 200 000 S of full pay is much clearer and much more flexible, and there will be much more women who will be able to do so. This amount of earnings also favours women with lower incomes, because women with low incomes – according to the income report, the 50 percent – are able to earn more; the next 25 percent would have to reduce less than with the old part-time scheme, and only best-earning women would have to give up or reduce even more. I therefore feel that this new child allowance scheme is fair, social – and it will also enable the combination of child and career.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12190	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12211	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear families! This is a milestone in the family policy of our country – but the summary of the contributions of the opposition members is relatively difficult to interpret. On the one hand, child care money is "bad" for you, in all bad, on the other hand, but for you is "a lot too little". So if something's not good for the families, for the children, I wonder how it can be too little. Mr. Gusenbauer, for example, said that there are now "less" in one case or another, but did not say that there was a maximum of 135 432 S to be obtained so far, but will be 216 000 S in the future. Mrs Prammer, on the other hand, claimed that karenz money would be removed without replacement. – That’s not true! We have integrated the full karenz time into this scheme, including the possibility to obtain childcare allowance beyond the karenz period. In short and well – and you can turn it and turn it any time you want –: ==References== In January 2002, there will be more money for more children, over a longer period of reference and in addition to 200 000 s at the age limit, and additional 18 months of retirement leave for those women who raise children and therefore stay at home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, the families in the very important care phase of children are much better supported than before. But this is also done in the fight against poverty.All the social reports of the last decades show us that child wealth is the main reason why people get into poverty. And this risk is now really being fought from the root. We also met the other model, namely: more money for those who earn more. – That cannot really be the answer of social democrats to a burning family and social policy problem! We from the government parties stand for a counter-model, we stand for redistribution: Redistribution of those who deserve to those who need it for child care, redistribution of the establishments to the boys and to the families. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I ask you from the opposition: Take this path with us – for the children, for our future, for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12276	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12302	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! What was really remarkable now is the openness with which Mr Tancsits – for the ÖAAB and for his party – has become known for the redistribution of the workers to the farmers and to the farmers. That was a mature achievement, Mr President! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: deaf grant for one! He didn't even hear what Tancsits said! I shall apply for such a grant for one!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it has already been said a lot today about this child money you will introduce, but let me nevertheless make the following statement: They of ÖVP and the liberals apparently assume that childhood ends at the age of three and a day. – On the other hand, we do not expect Social Democracy to do so! And that is also the basis for why we believe that there is a need for a different answer. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, believe that the childcare allowance should be a measure to combat poverty – which, however, is simply absurd, because poverty reduction can only be carried out through appropriate income policy or social policy – please make sure that when it comes to giving families and children a corresponding development, children are encouraged accordingly all the time they are financially dependent on the parents! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You take the policy you have pursued, especially in the field of education policy – think only of the tuition fees! – to give the families money away instead of giving it to them, and you give some families, namely those who just have zero to three-year-old children, 6 000 s of child money. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said clearly enough: Childhood does not end at the age of three, and therefore measures are needed until the end of this need for families. And that's what we've proposed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You should also be honest enough to say, first of all, who you are taking the money from and who you are giving it to, and secondly, to be open to you that not all children are worth 6000 S and that half of the people who are involved in this child's money will get less than it was with the karenz money! [[Call the ÖVP: This is stupid!]] Honesty is the minimum you could demand!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12390	No further words are available. I assume the agreement of the House, now that we have reached the end of the debate, we shall also have the vote on it – and then we will deal with the urgent question and with the 5th. Debates of the European Parliament As I see no contradiction, I will proceed in this way and vote separately on the various committee proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 716 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this resolution to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 92.) We shall also vote on the request of the Family Committee to take note of its report 716 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to take note of this report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to give an indication of this. – Decision-making shall be by a majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger and others on the amendment of the right of vacation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution on the subject of oillingers. – This is not the required majority; this request is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the draft law in 715 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law. Mr Oellinger asked for Article I(49)(l). 1 to change, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment tabled by Mr Ollinger for a sign. – This is not the required majority. That is why I shall vote on this part of the law as it stands in the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this part of the law as part of the Committee's report to give a sign. – I note that this has been adopted by a majority. As announced, we are voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of approval, I ask for a sign. – I note that the remaining parts of the bill have been adopted by a majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law at third reading to give a sign on this. . I note that the proposal was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. [[Long-lasting applause with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel is sufficient for the Federal Minister Mag, who is also sitting on the government bank. Head the hand.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: An applause like in the Soviet Union! The Chinese did that too!]] [[Call to the Freeman – towards the Abg. Edlinger –: What do you have against the Chinese]] We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 715 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their consent here to a sign. This resolution was adopted by a majority vote. (E 93.) Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Petrovic and colleagues on the use of languages that are gender-friendly. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign in this regard. – The Petrovic request did not find the necessary majority. Next, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer and colleagues on the increase in family allowances by 5 000 s per year and child, as well as the annual provision of 1 billion schillings for the extension of childcare facilities. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who's to pay for this?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign. – This is not the required majority. This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Family Committee to take note of its report in 717 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a sign in this regard. – I note that attention is by majority vote. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report in 718 of the supplements. In the event of approval, I may request an appropriate sign. . I note that this request was adopted by majority. This is what we have done with Agenda items 1 to 4. Question by Dr Alexander Van der Bellenund Comrades to the Federal Chancellor concerning reforms instead of cleansings (2629/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12529	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 2629/J. This question has been distributed to all Members, so that there is no reading. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12718	As the first speaker, Mr Van der Bellen is given the floor for the urgent question. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12739	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! "Re-government," it's called. "We want to abolish proporz and party book economy," said ÖVP and FPÖ. "We want the depoliticisation of public institutions," said FPÖ and ÖVP. That's what it was a year ago, a year and a half ago, when you started. And now? – Now we know what that meant: Headhunt you meant, headhunt in public institutions, in public companies. Headhunt, that's your foreign exchange of "rerule". [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Everything that is not blue-black in these institutions must be removed, cleaned and smoked. [[Abg. Böhacker: Such words are immense!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] All that is suspected of not automatically paraging the blue-black rulers must be smoked and cleaned. Everything that is suspected of not already fulfilling blue-black wishes in advance obedience must be removed, cleaned and smoked. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Smokered", these are the words of a professor?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The result, ladies and gentlemen, is not the promised depoliticization, but – quite the contrary! –: the total politicization of public institutions! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can achieve this with your policy, and for that you, Federal Chancellor, bear the responsibility – and not alone Your coalition partner FPÖ! Let us look, for example, at what is going on in one of the most important institutions in our country, namely in the ORF, and let us first ask ourselves how the relationship between politicians, Mr Gaugg, should normally look like you or me, and journalists. [[Abg. Gaugg: Correct, Professor!]] – It should look correct, yes. Politicians and journalists should now accept that they are dependent on each other – and that in a strange, uncomplicated relationship. Politicians want to get rid of their so-called message. What they represent is to be registered by the people – and for that they need means of transport: Newspapers, print media and so on. Journalists on the other hand must evaluate, review, estimate, select, shorten, not least shorten – in the print medium from lack of space, in the ORF for lack of time. These are important and essential tasks, and of course these assessments, cuts, assessments are not always based on the consent of the affected politician – that is clear – but in a normal, stable, solid democracy, one can assume that politicians understand this complicated, somewhat contradictory situation and meet journalists with respect and understanding for their activity, that an automatic understanding of the meaning of freedom of expression, freedom of expression exists in a country and that one understands that only then the voters or voters, the so-called Sovereign, can make his or her decision accordingly in a choice if before this freedom of information is given. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] So it is in a normal, stable, fortified democracy. Authoritarian politicians naturally do not stand up to this contradiction of interests, this possible conflict between journalists and politicians. Authoritarian politicians do not stop this, authoritarian politicians want to become the subject of reporting. They want to determine for themselves what is in the newspaper, what is reported in "ZiB", which is reported in "ZiB 2" or "ZiB 3". What is reported where, the authoritarian politician wants to determine. And we have a pattern case of these species here in the house. [[Abg. Brosz: Not right now!]] Not right now, that's right. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Westenthaler is stormed! He's probably intervening right now!]] Somewhere in the house he may be, Mr Westenthaler, the FPÖ clubman. He is the prototype of a politician who has this authoritarian understanding of dealing with media, with journalists and journalists. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The ideal of Mr. Westenthaler is obviously the following: The ORF reporter is coming, the sound technicians are here, the microphone is turned on, and the reporter says: Speak now! And the whole thing is sent one to one, no matter what is spoken of, no matter what length. Completely indifferent! Westenthaler determines what's important and what's not. That's his ideal idea. And for this, he struggles quite openly – that is to say, in a way, to give him a positive account – quite openly, by all means. That is why the daily interventions, which is why the abuses of journalists, are not averted from the attempt at personal diffamation, before the attempt to carry personal data to the public. This has not been done in this form, ladies and gentlemen, in the past. This is actually "rerule", but in a completely different sense than you originally announced. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What is going on here are comprehensive intimidation attempts against journalists of the ORF. Covering intimidation attempts! That's what I call headhunt. First of all, the free staff who can best resist pressure from outside, then the editors come along, and then the management of the ORF comes along. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Do you believe what you're saying?]] If anyone has still not understood the message of Mr Westenthal, then one billion will be accused. One billion is sued! Do you know what court costs that means who can afford it? – I don’t think even the FPÖ can afford this, but we’ll see. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Do you believe what you say, Professor?]] Indeed, it is amusing to see how opinions are formed within the FPÖ on this issue. Yesterday, 3. July, 8.11 a.m., Haider says: No case of the FPÖ against the ORF. One hour later, 21.21 a.m., APA: Westenthaler corrects Haider. There's a suit against the ORF. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A very liberal party!]] Very liberal party, says Mr. colleague from the FPÖ. - Today, 4. July, 12.09 a.m., Westenthaler: No deviation in the case of actions against the ORF tip. At 12.58 a.m. – the response speed increases – says Riess-Passer: It's not about complaints at all. And Haider doesn't see the meaning of the complaints. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] I'll see him. It is the attempt of brutal intimidation, the influence of freedom of expression, freedom of expression and thus the freedom of information of citizens in that country. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You, Federal Chancellor, are looking at this, you are silent. [[Abg. Gaal: He's silent as always!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: He doesn't do anything!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Now!]] Still. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He'll answer right now!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: I will answer then!]] The President of the Federal Republic has come before you. Today, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – I am taking this away from the APA – has expressed a great deal of horror at the intervention of the FPÖ in the ORF. He speaks "his highest respect" – I quote literally – "for the resolution" of the "cib 1", "cib 2", "cib 3" editors "off", who decided by unanimity a few days ago, not a few but 45. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Louter "Linke"!]] You want to tell us seriously that this is all "red-green mob"?- Oh, my God! This is otherwise your diction when it comes to demonstrations and freedom of demonstration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Federal Chancellor! I am excited what you are going to say in this House today about this restriction of freedom of information and freedom of expression in Austria. So far, you have not hindered Westenthal and FPÖ in their head hunters in the field of journalism. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Head-hunting?]] They left them free space. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What kind of expression is that, head hunter?]] And in the background, a law will be passed in this House tomorrow – I don't know if the FPÖ has ever done so at all – which does not intend anything but to install an ÖVP-faithful, government-reverential broadcasting. Whether this will serve your interests so much, let us put it down, but I am the last one to perceive your interests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That also bothers me about this thing: With Westenthaler – with all the political opposition you can only think of – you know what you are about. He's open in his attacks, at least in a way. You know what the FPÖ wanted if only she could. Thank God the constitutional institutions are still strong in this country. But that's clear. This is not so clear at the ÖVP. In my opinion, the ÖVP operates the same business, but much more silent, stolen, secretive, namely the underminement of free journalism and the demoralization of independent reporting in that country. [[Abg. May. Posch: Christian!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You will, Mr Bundeskanzler, but you will not get through with it. [[Abg. Murauer: This is really interesting that you want to judge this!]] You won't get through. The voters and voters are wiser than you believe of the ÖVP, whether in the front or in the back benches. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Murauer.]] You can continue your calls. The problem is, I don't understand them in the front. [[Abg. Murauer: That's the problem with you that you don't want to understand!]] That may be better, but I will read it in the Minutes with the greatest interest, Mr President of the back banks. Let us look at the second case I wanted to address here: the ASVG-Novelle, which is to be decided on Friday, and the redundancies of Sallmutter. There is an opinion here of someone who at least my knowledge is not suspected of being a member of the "red-green mob", namely Professor Bernd Christian Funk, ordinary professor of the University of Vienna, responsible for state and administrative law, in particular constitutional law. He has made this opinion not for the ÖGB, for the Greens or for the Chamber of Workers or otherwise for a "suspected" institution, but for the Chamber of Commerce. This opinion is also readable for laymen – I am not a lawyer myself – and intellectually accessible to every member of this House. I would like to quote briefly, because it really speaks for itself: "With the right of opposition" – these are the future veto rights of finance ministers and social ministers – "a substantial part of social self-government is put out of power and the main association is deprived of its independence in central functions and placed under the authority of the federal government. A justification for this serious intervention in the legally established autonomy of social security is not to be found, apart from a tax on power." Towards the end, it comes in full focus: "In constitutional terms" – I quote further – "the intended scheme is to be criticised for a number of reasons: 1. It constitutes a disproportionate and factually unwarranted intervention in the autonomy of social security. 2. There is a lack of constitutional determination of the right of opposition by the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations or by the Federal Minister for Finance. 3rd. Abstention of a review and legal proceedings is contrary to the fundamental principles of the rule of law." – Staple on: I hope you listen, Mr. Khol, next to your papers in a newspaper. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] "4. The legal relationship of tasks, competence and responsibility is distorted in an arbitrary way and replaced by power structures: the Board of Directors of the main association remains tasks and responsibilities with disturbed – because through opposition of receptive – competence, the ministerial level gains competence and responsibility, but – lack of legal verifiability – without appropriate responsibility." That means a little clearer: Willow! The vote will be taken on next Friday with the votes of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. And all this you want to sell us as a "new government"?- Oh, my God! Now I look again at Mr Gaugg from the FPÖ, who I once thought was at least an energetic representative of the interests of workers. [[Abg. Böhacker: And now?]] What happens in the main association, Mr Gaugg? That's what you're representing? – Workers' interests will certainly not be able to be more clearly represented there. On the contrary! [[Abg. Gaugg: Who's telling you that?]] The only thing that happens is that nothing can be decided against the EIA. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And that's what you're buying for some lost seat for a liberal or a liberal? That's really incomprehensible to me. Have you ever noticed that you are giving social security into the hands of the ÖVP? What did you get for it? [[Abg. Nuremberg: The ÖIAG!]] [[Abg. Oils: The vice chancellor!]] What is worth putting the interests of employee representatives at risk here? [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For these novelties, which stand alone in the party political interest of the ÖVP, you first take serious constitutional breaks into account, Mr. Bundeskanzler, and second – and this is what I wonder about – you take the most serious damage to the social partners as an institution into account. I am still well aware of how Mr Khol here at the speaker's desk has conjured the benefits of the social partnership – at that time something about the criticism of the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] [[Abg. Gaál: Now he steps them with feet!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Social partnership new" is now called the whole thing!]] "New social partnership" is that your name? [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a new quality!]] All you do is you've set an avalanche in motion, an avalanche whose standstill is in no way to be seen. That's what you've set in motion. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] No one knows where this avalanche will stand, and tomorrow's demonstration of the ÖGB, which we Greens fully support, is just a small symptom of what you have triggered here. The breaks of trust within the social partners as an institution will be so easy not to start again. I should like to look less at Mr Graf von der FPÖ than rather the colleagues of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who you look at is Wurst!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That doesn't make it any more true!]] It is not true because it is true, Mr Khol. Something true cannot become more true. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In this oral presentation of our urgent question, I confine myself essentially to these two areas, the ORF and the social security or the social security institutions, because I believe that they represent the worst cases of what we see here: Head-hunting. But all of us are still in the head, which has taken place in the area of ÖIAG in recent weeks and months. That's where I've got to ask you: You're serious about selling this to us as a new government? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Sure!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course!]] That's Ural government! I only take the case of Grasser and AUA and Ditz. The Minister of Finance has the Board of Directors of ÖIAG and AUA's Chairmans of the Board of Supervisors on the media that he has to remove AUA's Board of Directors. – Mr Khol, does this not happen to you from the 1960s, 1970s and still from the 1980s, where SPÖ Minister, whether it be the Federal Chancellor, or another responsible minister, has always intervened beyond share law, have tried to enforce their wishes? And now, if your coalition partner, the FPÖ – in this case the Minister of Finance Grasser – does exactly the same thing? He obviously doesn't know the share law, and if he knows it, it's all bruising to him. The Minister of Finance has no legal means at all to intervene here, and he must know. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, he knows!]] Nevertheless, he does exactly that. That's what you call "rerule," that's what you call depoliticization? What is actually happening here is exactly the opposite: the total politicization of public institutions and public enterprises! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13335	In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Federal Chancellor will now speak. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13357	Mr President. High house! I'm just not sure if, given the number of questions – it's at least 24 questions and to answer the statement of reasons of the opposition leader Professor Van der Bellen – I can come out with 20 minutes. I therefore take out the right to a detailed reply, and I am sure you understand this, because you have almost ironically held me up, I am not saying what is actually natural if you give your statement of reasons. I will now give you all the more detailed and, as I hope, satisfactory answers. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Yes, I am responsible for this federal government, I am responsible for a wealth of reforms. I am in favour of this, and I am happy to explain it here. We have now made three budgets in one year, we are on our way this year with seven-mile steps towards zero deficit, we have just decided on the money for children and depoliticized the ÖIAG. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] The umbilical cord to politics, as you yourself have correctly reported, is completely apart. Neither the Minister of Finance nor I nor anyone else can do something else under the law and in accordance with the law, but at best say his personal opinion. A greater compliment than that you could not make us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I welcome the fact that, in hard negotiations, we have negotiated a financial compensation for four years with the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities in a cross-party manner, that we have put out of dispute the funding of hospitals with all the countries and local authorities, including private hospitals, for some private operators, by the way, better than in previous years. I do not want to thank all those who are now involved in the speedy progress of state reform. But I also say that there can be reforms not only in the field of government and politics, but also in other areas. You mentioned exactly the three wounded points where at the beginning we had very serious difficulties: This is the ORF, because there is not enough media diversity, no private television, no foundation construction that has restricted the access of media tycoons to the ORF, has given too little distinctions about journalistic freedom and independence, but also the commitment to it. There has been too little desire for reform in the social security institutions, and I insist that I understand "head-hunting" in such a way that we have to go hunting for the best minds to change this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Huber: Against the best heads you make hunting!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I reject, Mr Van der Bellen, with determination, those regulations which otherwise do not actually correspond to your personal style. If you're talking about authoritarian politicians, if you're talking about submining or undermining free and independent journalists, you need to talk about another country, Mr. Deputies. Austria is not what you described here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Huber: Then talk to the journalists! Why don't you talk to the journalists?]] I would also very much recommend that you deal with accusations such as "serious constitutional breaks" more cautiously, otherwise you will be very quickly rid of the image of a balanced and very balanced opposition politician. Personally, I'd be sorry, Professor. [[Call ironic astonishment at the greens.]] I'm on it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever accuses a serious breach of the constitution, ladies and gentlemen, must know what he is saying. And now I also say quite openly: They have discussed boundaries and have also analysed them, which I can quite share. Yes, it is true that, of course, every politician wants to place a message, a message, and it is true that it is the task of an independent journalist wherever he stands, whatever attitude he has to examine, weigh, choose. And this doesn't always have to be pleasant for the politician who believes he has planted a slightly different weighted message. But I also tell you where the problems lie: in the extreme, yes unbearable reduction, which is taking place in the public-law ORF today. In the most important news broadcast of the country, in which "Time in Figure 1" has been shortened, shortened, shortened, so that today an incredible battle for fractions of seconds is taking place, in which any discriminating discussion and objective information for journalists has become much more difficult. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: And now the government determines how long to be reported!]] That is not the fault of the Federal Government, Mrs Petrovic, because you would rather not take care of us! We want to create more spaces here, a deeper and wider information, certainly not less. At least that's my intention. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same is true of the ÖIAG. I'm telling you, it used to be that privatized. Only: Where did the privatisation proceed? They have been used to pay interest on the old debts of the ancient state-owned industry, for misspectulations and so on. That was a very dramatic situation. But we now have within a few months – and for this we have to pay tribute to the new management and the new Supervisory Board, thanks to the Republic – within a year, the debt level has for the first time been pressed from say and write 86 billion to now 28 billion schilling. Two thirds of the debt is gone. This is a huge success of this ÖIAG strategy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There has never been that in this form before. It was at this time – I have carefully asked myself in the preparation of this question response – in the relevant institutions – you have also asked for it in the explanatory statement – Headhunter, staff consulting offices have been switched on, 250 people have been examined, evaluated, presented in objective hearings. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: By party membership!]] If you see the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG today, this is a group of executives in Austria and outside Austria who are responsible for 120 000 people, who give them work and bread, and who stand for a volume of sales of 400 billion schilling. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It never happened. [[Abg. But who were the headshunters?]] There are no more ministers inside, no more political fellows, these are professionals who understand their business. And we're proud of them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second objective criterion, Mr Wirtschaftsprofessor. You are not a lawyer, but you are a good economist and therefore know that a very objective criterion is always the market assessment. What is ÖIAG's view on the market today, on the capital market? Compared to February 2000, when the Federal Government took office, the stock exchange value of the companies at that time increased by 54 billion, from 94 billion to 148 billion schilling! An increase of 54 billion schilling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now you can say that there are, of course, some sales inside. Okay, let's just... [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Listen to me! Don't laugh so funny! [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You think you can tell Parliament every shame!]] Calculation If you get these sales out, you will still be able, Mr Gusenbauer, to an increase of 15 billion Schilling. That's more than your predecessors have ever brought together! So thank those who shot the ÖIAG. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These are not propaganda data from this federal government. That's the unspeakable market. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Who decides?]] The market! The market decides! The stock exchange value of the companies with the old shares and without the old shares, choose it: either plus 54 billion or plus 15 billion, at least a great success of this ÖIAG new policy! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You don't even know the exchange rates!]] And that's recognized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You can tell this shame at home, but not in Parliament! It's not understandable! That's where the plants are ruined, and you're telling us this shame! This is a negligent assessment of Austria's economic location!]] I am also referring to the reforms in other areas, whether it is education or whether it is administrative reform. One who is completely independent, one who is not at all particularly inclined towards this federal government, Professor Wimmer, professor of public law, former Social Democratic top candidate in Innsbruck, has said the last time, on the occasion of the administrative reform dialogue – some witnesses are here among us –: In the history of the Second Republic, there has never been such a networked approach that federal, state and local authorities, including the social partners, work on such a common impulse. - Quote. And for the first time, he hopes that this could really work in the autumn. – There cannot be a more beautiful compliment on the desire to reform this Austria. And we didn't order it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the end, the main association – I am going in a little more detail there – will be the same as the pension reform: At the beginning there is a big discussion, often very emotional, and in the end it will all accept because it is a right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now I also say quite openly to you that we have long tried to reach an overall consensus with the social partners, and I really do respect all those who have worked here, because it is not that simple. I also know that all those who negotiate with us or talk to us occasionally have to be blamed by their own people: Why are you talking to this federal government at all? But I tell you, the reforms that are now in the health and social field – and much of them in consensus; evaluate for yourself what is in consensus, I give back my view of things – first of all bring down a reduction in levels. Today they have five different levels in the main association. That doesn't make sense. You have the Bureau, you have the Board of Directors, you have the Control Meeting, you have the Annual General Meeting, and of course you have... [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: And now the covenant on self-government is determined! Great!]] No, I can only say that you have five concrete levels today. We first reduce to three levels, from five to three. And because the parity has been criticised, I tell you that we are actually bringing together three bodies: the old Bureau, the Control Committee and the Board of Directors. In reality, this is exactly a parity. Today, in the Control Committee, the service providers have the majority and the members of the Board of Directors. Put it together, come on a parity! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: This system is not Austrian-specific at all. Today, they have talked about Germany in the framework of the Kindergeld-Discussion. Well, how is social security organized in Germany? In the preparation for this request, of course, I have also come to know about this, and I have called myself: Since 1949, the general local health fund in Germany has had a parity of employers and employees, a six-year term of office, and – you hear! – the Presidency shall change annually. No problem at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo!]] Today there is red-green there, earlier there was a big coalition, then CDU/FDP. This has proved to be a good thing. [[Abg. Oils: Hasn't proven itself! This has not proved to be the case!]] Literally quoted by Mr. Knieps, that is the Federal Managing Director of the AOK's main association – ladies and gentlemen, I have a microphone, I'm louder –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Petrovic]] It's a peace order. Party policy does not play a role here in the daily business. - Quote. That's what we want: Social partners, parity, equality between service providers and service providers, but not that one can give one advantage to the other. We suggest that – evaluate it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a list here; Herbert Haupt and I have been negotiating with the social partners for hours on all these issues. We have the lists of consensus and dissent everywhere. What did we end up arguing about? – I can't believe this: The President's parity was controversial, i.e. the question of whether the President should change between employers and workers. That was controversial. We have opted for the German model; there they do so, and it works. I add that because you also asked: Where does such a system exist? – There are good examples for this. [[Abg. Silhavy:... Choose with us!]] The second dispute was inconsistency rules; I also say that openly here. We have essentially agreed on two of three rules of incompatibility, as far as I have understood. I may have understood this, but I am now saying this out of my subjective feeling. Therefore, no carrier supervisor – whether from the local health insurance fund or where the SV – is sitting on the board of directors – was actually consensus about that, and this, of course, eliminates top officials today. We were of the opinion that no political representative should be represented at the top level on the Board of Directors – and only there. This is incompatible – neither the National Council nor the Federal Council nor the European Parliament. I understood that this would be a possible consensus. The third inconsistency, which was disputed, was that this was incompatible with the executive bodies of collective bodies, i.e. presidents of state chambers, trade unions, secretaries, executives. That was controversial. These were essentially the contentious points we talked about. Then you added: How to formulate existing veto law? – I will come back to it in the course of the detailed answer. What we want to achieve is essentially: more self-management and less political influence. Don't forget, it was agreed between the social partners and the government's leaders that ministers should refrain from having essential rights that they have today. Today's Director-General of the main association has not been appointed in the consensus of the social partners – I would like to say this very strongly. No one has said that it was illegal, but he has not been appointed in the consensus of the social partners. It was a ministerial decision alone, because the control committee did not give a majority to do so. The whole thing was done without tendering, without public tendering, without service checks, and equally pragmatic and unannounceable. [[Abg. Murauer: These were other times!]] Is that a system in the 21st century? A century makes sense? Today's Presidential Members are appointed by the Minister of Social Affairs. In the new construction, the Minister of Social Affairs has nothing more to talk about. [[Abg. Vergestnichtsch: Mr. Federal Chancellor! That's not true!]] It shall not appoint either the President or the Vice-President or the Management Board, which shall be the sole responsibility of the Board of Directors. [[Abg. I have a veto right! At any time, Vetorecht!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Chief.]] I'll go into it then. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a very interesting solution, a bridge that leads to a modern health administration and social security, and not a depowerment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the individual questions you have asked me. The first question relates to the construction. As mentioned above, I am concerned that we come from five levels on three levels. A long-term strategic body, in which many are represented, many NGOs or civil society organisations, as well as, of course, the actors of politics and the social partners, is expected to be new – on which consensus has also existed. These are intended to eliminate benefits and funding from the day-to-day dispute. I think this is one of the very big breakthroughs in the previous talks. In my opinion, Mr Professor, you should also be freed from the fact that everyone in the Annual General Meeting or elsewhere is assigned to party politics. The political parties – the federal parties – did not send any representative anywhere. The new Board of Directors guarantees that minority groups will also be able to move within self-management. I would like to say the following: If one takes democracy seriously – and I am very much in favour of it – then one should also urgently question some democratic deficit in the past. Or do you really think, Mr Gusenbauer, because you've been shaking your head again, that, for example, the ÖGB of the Public Service Trade Union has abstained from a mandate in PVAng, although the GÖD has a right of posting for contract staff, only so that political arithmetic is true? [[Abg. Bures: With what you say, you can only shake your head!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think this is fair, that is not all right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say quite frankly to you: There must be no monopoly here. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why do you deliberately tell us the untruth?]] It is nowhere in the basic law or in the constitution that, for example, the interests of the service provider are exclusively represented by the economic association or the interests of the workers exclusively by the socialist group. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why do you deliberately tell us the untruth?]] There is a plurality at all levels, and it should also be visible, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second question was: What so far blocked reforms are to be implemented with the previously existing innovation? – May I have some very interesting... [[Abg. Edlinger: This leads us to have by... majority!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] May I perhaps mention some very interesting points? [[Abg. Edlinger:... Social insurance!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The truth is unpleasant, but reasonable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Elections too!]] For example, there is still no uniform computer system for all carriers. Now it is achieved that we finally get a cross-border controlling. It will no longer be located at the Minister's office, but it will have to work towards the Board of Directors, that is, self-government. This is a strengthening and not a weakening of self-government! Or do you really think it's optimal that we still have a Handician health certificate seat economy today? Will not the – now finally introduced with pressure – chip card be possible for all modern electronic accounting and processing? – These are things that health politicians from all political camps have demanded for years. We're just doing it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I will also tell you openly what I want to prevent. I want to prevent the ideas that have been expressed by some. I'm not going to mention any names here, but the following things have been said over and over again: Once it was about a tax to finance, i.e. a 5% supplement to the capital income tax, then it was a tax on alcohol, tobacco or transport, then it was at all a contribution increase of 0.3 percentage points, and several times even an increase of 1 percentage point has been required. [[Abg. Nürnberger:... don't hear anymore!]] Do you know what that means, Mr. Deputies? – That means: [[Abg. Nürnberger: Ambulance fee...!]] 15 billion schilling of increase in contribution. Not with us, deputies. Not with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore believe that it is not a matter of political control at all. On the contrary, it is about self-management – but pluralistic and wide-ranging – being able to nominate those officials who actually implement this reform concept, which we also expect substantial savings in administration to be possible. In other words, you also have to talk openly – if it is objectively viable – about the combination of carriers. Where is it written that, for example, in connection with the harmonisation of the rights of employees and workers, as we have largely implemented them, cannot PVAng and PVArb be put together at some point? – That makes sense and is in the interests of the insured, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Protest: Where is it written that we must separate farmers and self-employed?]] This is, of course, objective to examine, Mr President, and there must be no taboo, neither in the one or the other. I expect the new representatives – including social security and social security – to implement this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I answered the question of annual rotation. It has been practiced with great success in Germany for over 50 years. We are clearly orienting on this case. Now to the so-called Veto right: Mr Delegate Professor Van der Bellen, I took the ASVG and would like you to visit § 448 para. 4 and 5. [[Abg. Oils: We know it! We have it in committee...!]] There you see very clearly today the following: Two supervisory representatives now – in the future also two supervisory representatives; the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs may object if a legislation is infringed; the representative of the Ministry of Finance may object to decisions relating to the financial interests of the federal government. In addition, § 449 states: Supervisory authorities "can extend their supervision to issues of expediency; in this case, they should be limited to important issues and" should not unnecessarily intervene in self-management. "The supervisory authorities may, in the exercise of the supervisory right, repeal decisions of the administrative bodies." – That’s the law in force! What we've done is essentially a similar formulation. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No!]] Yes, of course. But we'll still be... [[Abg. Nürnberger: Is there a remedy against that?]] – Why yell You're like that? I just want to answer it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] We want to clarify this in the sense of the discussion that has taken place in the last few days, so that this is essentially maintained: that, in the event of illegality, the Ministry of Social Affairs objectes, in the case of the financial interests of the federal government and in the matter of the expediency, the Ministry of Finance, and of course, there must be a remedy. We'll do that. This will be completely undramatic, because it's done well and because we're going to do it that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On question 7; who will now be in the new management – you know that these three to five members will include – inside: It's called a name I don't even know. I can't preface either. There will not be a member of the government here, nor will the Social Minister who has had it so far. It will be the Board of Directors – for the first time in history! – public writing. Everyone can apply. Headhunt means here: Hunting for the best heads – which it can, should come into this area! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] On question 8; Reform of the ORF and interventions: I really can only talk about those things that concern me. I myself was honestly affected by the criticism of the "cib" editors in two cases that concern me; there are only two cases. I therefore invited the two representatives of the "time in the picture" - it was Mrs. Danielle Spera and Mr. Wolfgang Wagner. There was an excellent, objective, good conversation. I have also explained my reasons for this in two specific cases. Of course, it was about shortening – as you said – shortening and reducing, and there are differences. Question 1 – I was asked about the so-called SPD key request to Europe – on the verge of another event on this request, which I had not known at all. You know this new exercise: Before you see anything, you have to comment on it. So I was extremely careful in a long interview, and I said: According to what I have heard about the agencies so far, some of the ideas of the SPD – subsidiarity, competence catalogue – are quite Austrian priorities and interests. In other areas, such as making the European Council a second chamber, we do not view this as a danger to a European superstate. Only this last half-rate was sent out: the risk of the European superstate. – It wasn't wrong, I said that. I believe, however, that I have the right, on a delicate issue that is considered to be relevant across Europe, to also value it – and more than that – that I want to be heard in the entire differentiation of my argumentation. Or you leave it – I do not have to happen in this context. But if you want an opinion from me, I must also have the right to put my accents in that way, and then that must be more than half a sentence that you want to play on purposely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It wasn't about party intervention. Whether I happen to be more or less for a few seconds – believe me, that's totally uninteresting! [[Abg. Oillingers: But you'll find more for a lot of seconds!]] It was not a party political advantage, but I was concerned about a state-politically important question, about an Austrian position I had formulated more balancedly than I recognized it afterwards. Second: We have organised a dialogue on the future of the European Union, and many of you have been there. I asked a question there: How is this, among other things, with an obligation to assist in the case of defence? – The interesting thing was that in the discussion there was a remarkable opinion – the first, by National Council President Heinz Fischer – in which very precise differentiation was made: When it comes to defense, he could imagine that. I interpret this as a personal opinion; more can it not be in such a dialogue either. Others have not made any comments on this at all. In the end, I summarized once again, and I welcome the fact that we have come to such an improvement in the discussion. I also mentioned this in an interview. Because of this, an impression was then given as if a massive advance had come from me. It was not wrong, it was correctly reflected by Austrian radio; I only drew attention to this: The really interesting one was not my question, but the answer that some have given. I think that would have made some sense. Perhaps we could occasionally need this more materiality. I wasn't talking about a couple of seconds for me or for my party. I believe that such an objective discussion will also be possible with the "ZiB" editors. But it has to play in a form – and I also take a nose – that does not justify the word "manipulation", but on the other hand it does not justify that one now knows a submination of the free journalistic activity in the ORF. That's how I want to keep it in the future: Freedom for journalists, but an honest dialogue, because we are actually working on two sides and everyone with best powers wants to achieve something good for the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In question 17, I have to say that it really does not concern my field of execution. I can only say here that I believe that we should be particularly careful about journalists, because they also have to be sensitive and because they often get this feeling: If one of us politicians says something in the emotion – perhaps even understandable – this is immediately interpreted completely differently and gets a completely different connotation. Therefore, this is our common answer – from both political groups of the government parties – tomorrow at the ORF Act: an explicit anchoring of journalistic independence, the right to independence and the obligation to independence, the foundation construction and the structure of liability for supervisory or Stiftung councils – which clearly also means that less political influence may exist in the coming ORF. The ORF Curatorium of the year 1996 belonged to say and write to 16 politicians, 16 politicians, press representatives or party employees. They've got to get out of here! This will make the ORF more free, it will make journalists more independent, and it will hopefully make the program better, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On question 18; why not hold secret votes, but open ones: That's a question of what we want. As in a Supervisory Board, if we want to have a body that assumes liability – it was actually out of dispute, and that was already out of dispute in previous discussions about the ORF law – then this liability provision corresponds to the fact that an open vote is actually taken. Under the terms of liability, secret votes are not allowed. I quote the comment on the share right of Schummer/Jabornegg/Strasser: "In the case of shares, secret voting on the basis of the liability of the individual Supervisory Board members for their voting behaviour is certainly inadmissible." By the way, I would point out that the secret voting behaviour in the public sector has very often given rise to criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Is this a foundation or an AG now?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is that an AG? Foundation or AG?]] I believe that transparency in the ORF must be a criterion that makes absolutely sense. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Where is Westenthaler?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Stiftung, AG or Westenthaler?]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Where is Curator Westenthaler?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The next question relates to the independent Federal Communications Senate. It is clear to me that the former green curator Schennach, who has to come out of the ORF curatorium because of the independence provisions, has particularly campaigned here. It is true that we have now nominated three judges and three non-directors, precisely according to the law, namely highly qualified people. They have the right, on the grounds that an applicant has been notified within the time limit, so that proper nomination by Oberlandesgericht and OGH has not been possible. The two Presidents have therefore extended the deadline without my approval, and they have been able to obtain a sufficient number of independent judges within this extended period. In the application, the President of the Supreme Court also took into account the judges mentioned in your statement of reasons, but subsequently did not recommend him for this activity. The Federal Chancellery has in no way interfered in these autonomous processes of the President. The President's proposal, as stated by the law, was taken up by the Federal Government and presented to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. To the ÖIAG; You have asked questions 20 to 22. However, they quote things that are not quite true. If you know the entire text of the interviews and statements – I have made contact with Mr Ditz and Minister of Finance Grasser – I can inform you on the basis of this information: The Federal Minister for Finance took part in the general meeting of the ÖIAG on 22 February. ==References====External links== He welcomed and stressed the excellent economic current account. As the top owner in the ÖIAG, he expressed complete confidence to the Supervisory Board. I would like to say here strongly that the Federal Government is acting solely in accordance with the Stock Exchange Act and the ÖIAG Act. [[Abg. Oillinger: We have noticed in Telekom's privatisation!]] I assume that the economic and human decisions of the ÖIAG are made exclusively in accordance with the legal provisions and obligations. The Federal Minister for Finance has clearly indicated that he does not appoint or appoint the ÖIAG Board of Directors; this is exclusively competence of the ÖIAG Supervisory Board. By the way, the new Supervisory Boards will no longer be appointed by ministers or by the government, but they will be appointed and revoked themselves. This new mode ensures the depoliticisation of the Supervisory Board absolutely. In the past, this was different, since the appointment and appointment of ÖIAG's Supervisory Board members was directly with the Minister of Finance, and therefore, of course, a corresponding political influence was possible. By the way, I would like to tell you once again that five to ten generally recognized entrepreneurs from the business sector – managing directors of commercial law and individuals with long-standing experience in economic life – were "screened" by Headhunters. Every claim is therefore absolutely inapplicable... [[Abg. Oillingers: All from the paper industry!]] But not at all, look at it! Do you think Mr. Hubbert or Mr. Achleitner is from the paper industry? – Widen your eye, Mr. Ölllinger, then you will also discover other industries and other companies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: He doesn't know her at all!]] "Summary and assessment: Why was the old proporz represented by Viktor Klima and you worse than the new one?" – The only proportion that exists now is that in the Federal Government. We each have six ministers and two State Secretarys; Vice chancellors and Federal Chancellors are as well known and divided as well. I have remained the same; with Susanne Riess-Passer more goes on than with Viktor climate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14222	We are now going into the debate. Each group has a speaking time of 25 minutes. Individual speeches shall not exceed 10 minutes. Mr Pilz is the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14265	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a general reassurance report: An employee of the Green Parliament Club told me about 10 minutes ago that Ing. Westenthaler in the heating cellar of the house has been sighted. He is unharmed, with best health – and has already returned! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler stands next to the rear rows of the Freedoms and raises the arms to a questioning gesture]] Westenthaler has appeared, I greet Mr Klubobmann of the Freedom Party with some delay in this debate, but he must already say that he will not be the main subject or the main person of this debate. [[Abg. Neudeck: He's been sitting back all the time!]] It's about something else. It is about the only correct answer to the question or the only correct, objectively really neat answer that the Federal Chancellor has now given. This one said: I, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, stayed the old man, I didn't change. [[Abg. Donabauer: Thank God!]] – Yes, Federal Chancellor, we did not ask you to do so, but that is true: You've remained the old man! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] And I'm sorry we both can't say anything better about you together. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But he looks younger than you!]] What does "government new" mean? – First of all, that means: On the verge of a state visit, the Chancellor in the Federal Republic of Germany has a strong appeal to a journalist of the ORF and accuses him of international guests and the general public of manipulation. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was the Kreisky, that's been a long time!]] To this day, the Federal Chancellor has not apologized to the affected journalist. [[Abg. Neudeck: He doesn't live anymore, Kreisky!]] "Regovernment new" means that not any employee – in this respect there is a small mistake in the opinion of the ORF Editors' Assembly – but the Minister of Agriculture itself has called on the ORF Summit once again to intervene for the Federal Chancellor, himself and his party. That is to say, "government new": in the time of the BSE crisis, a Minister of Agriculture with the hot wire in the middle of the ORF! The Federal Chancellor doesn't have to do it himself, there are other members of the government. [[Abg. Großruck: How do you know that?]] "Re Government new" obviously also means: The Minister of Finance calls on the head of the ÖIAG to deliver to him the heads of the AUA Board, and also says what happens if the spokesman of the ÖIAG board does not make it; then he himself is on the line. It is clear that the new rules at the head of this federal government and in the still state-owned industry are being intervened. "Regenerate new" means that the clubman of the percent stronger party on the verge of a discussion tells the head of the "ZiB 2" editorial that he has obtained his contract of service and knows exactly what one can do with this service contract. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Unheard!]] – If this is not a personal threat of the highest quality, then the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party should explain to me what they are under a threat, what they mean by intimidation and what they understand by harassment! [[Abg. Nürnberger: (in the direction of the Federal Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, sitting on the government bank)]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel has been in the world politically for a long time and has not yet found a proportion in Austria. He has not found any proporz and answers some questions we have asked in a way that makes it possible that he really lives in a different world. On the question of why Sallmutter has to go and why, for a three-quarters year, the head of the President of the main association of social security institutions has been called upon, the answer comes: because we want to implement reforms ; and on the question of the reforms there is the note: [[Abg. Kiss: 'Cause he doesn't do anything!]] We could connect the computer systems. If I want to connect the computer systems, I naturally have to remove the president of the main association. Without the removal of the president of the main association, it is well known that no computer systems can be connected to each other. [[Abg. Neudeck: You were against it...!]] Federal Chancellor! Learn strong and weak current technology, and let yourself be by the ing. Westenthaler explain the secret of electric wires! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] I'll just stay on the point of social security systems. I take away from the "standard" and other media that the financial crisis in social security institutions – and not only in the main association – is perhaps even more serious than many experts fear. [[Abg. Gaugg: Then the Sallymutter can't be such an expert! Either there are those responsible or not!]] Perhaps – and there is also a responsibility of social-democratic officials, of course! – it is necessary to take decisive measures in order to be able to obtain a system that is essentially good and worth obtaining in the core of the year to the fullest extent possible. [[Abg. Gaugg: Come on! Leave talents there, like the "consumer"! What did he say, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board?]] If we stay with the picture of a fully occupied bus, which is out of control and goes to a abyss, I do not understand the government proposal, according to which only the handlebar is removed and said: Then it'll be all right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to leave the valuable system of Austrian social security insurance with certainty! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's get back to ORF. – Ladies and gentlemen! It's true there's a fight for minutes and seconds. That's our problem. But good politics lives on the fact that it arrives publicly and that it is also publicly understood and sometimes appreciated. But if you go home with political shopkeepers, you have to put pressure on journalists to report positively on them. Only if one is not able to explain and defend one's own policy in all public, then one has to put Ultimates in discussions – for example in the ORF – that say: I'm only questioning when no one is in the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Federal Chancellor! Did you really need to put, for example, an ultimatum of this kind in the context of the " Subject" programme for the discussion "One Year of the Federal Government": Riess-Passer and I will only come if we do not have to discuss with the opposition!Unknown term type: "%s".? The Minister of Justice also acted by saying: I'll only come when no members of the opposition are present! [[Abg. Neudeck: It’s about an objective discussion – and not about polemics!]] It is on another sheet that the ORF sometimes adds such extortion attempts. That's bad enough! But you, Mr Bundeskanzler, should distance yourself from imposing such a dissent culture on this country! There has, of course, been an old proportion, and the defenders of the new proportion will still shrink on the old proportion for a long time today. If you ask me who intervened most temporarily at ORF, I don't mean it was Peter Westenthaler. Andreas Rudas is probably still in the lead. Much speaks purely of quantity for that. But no one has been able to imagine the quality of the current interventions until the start of this government. The old proporz consisted in a system of filter-like integration as far as possible. Everyone got something to keep him or her quiet. The new proportion, on the other hand, is the takeover of power by half the parties of this Republic to exclude the other half of all design, determination and control processes as far as possible. [[Abg. Gaugg: That's good!]] The old proporz was bad enough, but the new one is much worse! Yes, Federal Chancellor, you have learned from old pride! You have replaced the "Rasier brush proporz" and the felt proporz with the proporz of lead pipes! It's not tied up, it's hanging up! Resistance nests are cleaned, people are pushed out, it is simply and simply politically liquidated. That's how it looks in this Republic! Don't invite you to dialogue tips! Do not always talk about dialogue if you are unable to deal equally with journalists, workers' representatives and colleagues from other parties! Saving You can get all the dialogue offers if you are not dialogable yourself! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] One last: Of course you have problems! Of course, there is a problem for a German chancellor, in which more and more people feel that he is actually only interested in how he sticks to the chair.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14533	I ask for the final sentence, because now not only the voluntary but also the legal speaking time has expired!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14565	Thank you, Mr President. – Mr Bundeskanzler! Your personal interest cannot stand above the interests of Austrian democracy! We are a minority today, but we are drawing your attention as a minority in this House: The institutions of the Austrian rule of law and of Austrian democracy will still be stronger than your attempts of authoritarian turn.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14596	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. At the same time, this is also the business time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14628	Federal Chancellor! I understand that after you had kept the political trappist vows for a long time and remained silent in your workroom, today you needed to make a little statement. You told us something here for 35 minutes. But did you really tell us something? This question arises because the "Oma-Relaxation-Rehetoric", which you used to explain to us here the most immense processes of democracy reduction and the economic-politically dubious methods of this government, is not enough. Such a calming rhetoric that we don't know what really happened here in this country, you can't develop at all! And it's our job to point this out today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I heard you say for the x-th time today: We clean the ÖIAG and the ORF of these secretaries. – For a moment I was thinking and thinking: Does a professor of economics speak to me here? Or is the former Director-General of a bank, who has now become the Federal Chancellor, the speaker of these sentences? Then I kind of remembered: Were you not also a secretary at the Austrian People's Party Parliamentary Club? Were you not the Secretary General of the Austrian Economic Federation? You have actually worked in this office via a classical secretary's career! But no matter what. In any case, you have developed a talented tactic that you are German chancellors today with 27 percent of voters! If I compare what you said to us and the disdain of your words – and all the secretaries sitting in here, up to the rich freelances at the FPÖ, should now have even a broadcast break! – then I would like to suggest: You should think about what that means! – Behind the grounds of exclusion according to ORF law and the grounds for exclusion with which social security is worked, in connection with which individuals consider who has no competence and cannot bear any responsibility in this country, is in fact political arbitrariness and non-economic competence; and 27 percent are not a truly captivating electorate either! This is unheard of, and you should point it out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You are the inventor of the key word "less state, more private" which you repeatedly cite, and you say again and again that private economic considerations are increasingly to be guidelines of politics. – If I look at the stock exchange of Telekom and its result, I have to say: If you were a private company, you would no longer be in charge where you are today! That's where it'd be done! In view of the decline of the ÖIAG shares last year, which means a minus of more than 38 billion schilling, it is clear that you are no longer where you are today. [[Abg. Neudeck: Were you consumer co-operatives?]] That's why I'm asking: What kind of private economy logic are you doing here? Federal Chancellor! You and your most important economic policy advisor, Prinzhorn, who, according to the Minister of Finance Androsch of the time, is in the economic death room because he was so unsuccessful in his industry and who was only revived with a paper machine so that he could continue economically with his companies at all – truly a "duo infernal"! – want to tell us something about economic policy! I mean, it is quite threatening, as you do in view of this data development – I am not talking about the inflation rate and economic growth at all, and that we are already at the EU average in terms of income development and growth – to lead this country in bad times! You have to see that! And then make yourself up and talk here about various secretaries who are incompetent, and talk about the 30 years of Chancellorship of the Social Democrats, of which You were with me for 14 years, as if all of this were nothing but nothing had been done. Perhaps this is also an assessment of your work, because you were a member of this government and have the most indebtedness to answer! What bothers me, however, is that you also want to scatter sand into the eyes of the Austrians. That's why our current campaign is called "SOS Democracy"! Indeed, it is intended to reduce and reduce democracy on seed pouts in this country, and our task will be to point out that we will resist it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What you are planning with social security means that a vote of the workers' chamber elections is to be reinterpreted by a law so that then there is a majority that is accepted by you and your coalition partner. The scream in the media and on the part of your party that would have started if such a thing had been tried under the constellation of another government in another area, I would have liked to hear that! Now you are taking an unforgivable step against democratic culture and also against our democracy. And if, on the other hand, a demonstration is rightly demanded in which concerned Austrians want to take action against this democracy, then a campaign will be dissolved here, which actually discredits the right to demonstrate. [[Abg. Witchlands: You've gotten the people up!]] With this in mind, I ask myself: Where is democracy to take place in this country? In the way you deal with us here in Parliament, do you occur a few hours earlier with any amendments or templates here? Or by discrediting the right of demonstration or by making an ORF law, according to which you then determine which broadcasts on which topics may be broadcast with which discutants in which place and at which time? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] In fact, you are starting to try to reduce the scope for action of the opposition, the dissident and the concerned Austrians, and that would only be more effective in it if you decide at all that the next parliamentary elections will be suspended and will only be elected when it is yours and You have a secure FPÖ and ÖVP majority! That is why we carry the plaque with the title "SOS Democracy" because we see danger here in delay and because it is necessary that the Austrians, on the other hand, develop a legitimate political resistance within the framework of our democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! Where is your most important alliance partner, Klubobmann Westenthaler, today? I am not asking you this because he is leaving me, but because I believe that he would be in the right place in this debate today, in particular! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Tomorrow's early enough!]] No, no, no, He is one of those who tries to engage in the discussion of ORF's management in the form of starting a criminalisation strategy in the media, such as pre-conception elements, as is customary. I mean, it speaks for the FPÖ, that once Haider says that it is not accused, that then Westenthaler says that it is very well accused, and that in turn Riess-Passer says that there is less complaint. – I do not know what will come out of it, but only to the fact that attempts are being made to criminalise misguided management in one of the most sensitive areas, namely in the most important media company in Austria, I would expect you to make a statement that you are critical of and ultimately condemn it. The good Westenthaler took part in a total of five meetings, in which it was reported about this contract VÖZ – ORF, in which it seemed to have suffocated and was unable to ask the question of what this contract looks like and what it determines, and also to stand up to it. This is a return coach now, because at ORF one no longer understands why in recent times not only Westenthaler intervenes in principle, but even Westenthaler intervenes for Westenthaler in order to have less Riess-passer and less Haider, but more Westenthaler! This is his political and spiritual attitude behind it! Therefore, I expect a German Chancellor of this Republic and party chair of a party that is in a coalition with this party, that there are clear words against this attempt to intimidate journalists and influence one of the most important media, namely the ORF. You say something here, but in fact you are silent! The 35 minutes of speech were quantitatively remarkable, but they did not really help us on this point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! It would be time for you to consider whether the path you have taken is really responsible for Austria! It is therefore time for me to look at all these areas, such as ÖIAG, ORF, social security, universities and justice, and to consider just about how justice has dealt with FPÖ's peak scandal, worrying about democracy in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Get everything down!]] I am concerned about the democratic culture in Austria, but I am also concerned about the political development in Austria. I am worried if you continue to discredit the right to demonstrate that there is also a polarization that nobody wants! We love our democracy! Generations have fought for it, and we will continue to fight for it! "SOS Democracy"!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14756	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Nazi book-stabler!]] The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14785	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neoklubmann of SPÖ has dealt with the career steps of our Federal Chancellor in a very detailed way. – I would be personally interested only if Cap had been deposed as a Central Secretary because he intervened too little or too much for his then master and patron, Mr. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, at the ORF! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] It is well known that you, Mr Cap, have suffered a political total crash under Vranitzky. However, since the Moscow faithful in the SPÖ have the say again, you've been going up a little bit. I have to say: If Cap Klubobmann becomes the SPÖ, then the staff cover is damn thin! The "SOS", which some of you carry, I interpret as follows: Protects Austria from these socialists! – I associate that with this "SOS"! I can tell you: You didn't understand your task! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] You have not understood your task in the past! Their words always culminate in the fact that all the laws of this government are against the trouble of the Greens and the Reds. – You must not take yourself so important! The laws we decide here serve the benefit of the people of Austria. Take note of this in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am glad that a former ÖVP vice chancellor is no longer invited to sing the Socialist International in Austria. This time, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, thank God! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] I am thinking now of the influence you have taken and of the abuse of power you have committed in your time of government participation as a larger government partner in this country: They took everything hostage, which was only possible, up to the ORF tip, where, of course, it was only "consulting influences" when a secretary of the SPÖ called. If this is done by someone who does not belong to the SPÖ, it is called "forbidden intervention". – The interpretation is not permitted! I am telling you now – and particularly Mr Cap, who has been in SPÖ for many years – that you will know very well that you are organizing a demonstration because poor Mr. Sallmutter is now no longer President. That's the reason! And I'm asking you: Where were your demonstrations at the time when, for example, the savings packages introduced the burden on the population in the form of self-maintainment in many areas of social security and the like? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I can also tell you: This main association has been abused by you! It served not the workers, nor the employers, but only the self-sufficiency of the officials. And you didn't ask the voters at the Chamber of Workers whether they wanted Mr. Sallmutter as President! Finally admit that Mr. Sallmutter was a lupen-clean post-chacher! Why not take the chairman of the railways' union or the chairman of a beekeeper's association or somewhere else? – I say: Mr Sallmutter was therefore taken so that he could not stand in the way of Mr Verzetznitsch during his re-election as President of the ÖGB! That's why you sent him there! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So tomorrow, strangely, congregations are held in many cash offices. These were called in expressly. Members of the main association were invited by other carriers by express letter, because it is said that on 5 July the following year the members of the main association were invited by other carriers. A very urgent meeting will take place on July. Do you know what that is? – This is abuse of contributions! In this way, the costs of travel can be paid by those officials who will be in front of Parliament tomorrow at 5 p.m. That's your understanding of democracy. Shame! That's really adventurous! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you: That's it! This is your abuse of democracy! There will be meetings, so that your lot may get a little bigger out there! The question of the selection of functions in the main association is repeatedly criticized. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you suffer from high blood pressure?]] No, not at all! But when I see you, I see red, dark red! Moscow-red I see there! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] The shawl sound that you as party chairman and clubman – You're both, he's just more business-leading – giving of himself, leading you to become a little more powerful so that you can understand, Mr. Gusenbauer! Otherwise you don't understand! They live in a sublime world that has already disintegrated in Moscow, only with you will everything that used to belong to Communism gathers. You do a common cause with Communism! They make Randale in Salzburg with the Communists and with the anarchists. – Mr Kogler is of a different opinion, but that is the way it is! – And then the accusation comes from one – as he calls himself – bourgeois representative who is close to the Greens, who says that he does not understand the police, why she does not fish those 20 randals among the 919 demonstrators who are with them. At the same time, he stresses how evil the police are to these demonstrators. And Mr. Pilz will still remember how he ran through Vienna in the opera ball demonstrations. That's you! You know exactly what cops you've had your appearance with! – This is the view of the Greens in these things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Do not pretend to be the one who calls for respect for democratic rules!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14874	Mr Gaugg! I already have a whole list of expressions from your speech, which I have asked myself whether this is going or not. But if you accuse a member of the house of "sucking and ranching" through Vienna, then I would like to ask to find another language! [[Abg. Gaugg: Before! It was before!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14900	Good. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the liberals and the Greens.]] We are often talking about intervention by our clubman. – I say to you: There has been a "Euroteam" report in the ORF, in connection with which the Federal Chancellery or the Federal Chancellor himself intervened, that the contribution is reduced by 8 seconds, because it contained something that Mr Klima did not fit. Perhaps your obedience, Mr. Cap, or the ORF, was coming ahead. Anyway, it wasn't sent. That's the problem you have! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Your boss is here now!]] For the accusation relating to the question of the ÖIAG, which is really amazing: Of course, mourning is just happening. You old socialists follow the sacred times when the VOEST and the "consumer" had everything done with a single call! The only qualification a candidate had to bring was the red party book. - It's over now! That is finally over for the benefit of this country! A two-thirds reduction in debt in a year is due to recognition and not the criticism you are constantly making! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Stop! The boss's here!]] Finally, I have a wish: The Federal Chancellor spoke about the fact that professionals are sitting in the ÖIAG Supervisory Board. But you can't even have something! In the Supervisory Board, professionals who have proved economically that they can do something. – I hope that the same professionals will also be involved in the question of the main association, so that those who are socially insured there will also have a good future!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14958	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. They are available for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14983	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg has found that I was "sucking and ranching" through Vienna. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I almost think that's true!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In fact, I note this: In no second of my life have I been "sucking and ranching" through Vienna. As proof of this, I suggest that I have not behaved like a Carinthian freeman in any second of my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15026	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European It's stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15048	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Since so much has already been said about ORF in today's debate, allow me a preliminary remark: I think it's a lucky case for the opposition that these urgent ones are not directly transmitted by ORF on television. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This would be a clear and clear victory for the Federal Chancellor and for the two government groups. You're lucky the ORF doesn't transfer this directly today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Anyone who considers this neutral sees that between your reasoning and the German Chancellor's answer worlds lie in expertise, argumentation and detailed knowledge! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Van der Bellen! You are an economic professor, and you have had my greatest appreciation for many years. But now I have to tell you: At today's emergency, I had a strong impression that the method predominates that, even if something is not true, if you say it often enough, something will already hang. Mr Van der Bellen! I always say, Politics has two faces: a fascinating face in the sense of politics as a future design and a very ugly face in the form of the day hack and the flat-rate diffamation. You, Mr Van der Bellen, are standing today with this urgent, by flat-rate diffamation for the ugly side of politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You used a key principle in your justification of the urgents at the outset, namely that the policies of the two government parties still exceed the party book economy of the SPÖ. This keyset has two interesting components: First of all, we agree, Mr Van der Bellen. – there has been a SPÖ party book industry in the last 30 years of SPÖ domination. You are right, on this point we agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] This key principle, however, still had a second component, namely that the policies of this Federal Government still exceed the latter, and for that you cite many examples. For example, ÖIAG: Mr Van der Bellen! The Finance Minister of the Government has appointed a new ÖIAG Supervisory Board. And if you are honest and your allegations are not just lump-sum accusations and diffamations, then now come out and tell me which members of the ÖIAG Supervisory Council have been appointed on the basis of the party's book and not on the basis of their competence! Come on. Mr Van der Bellen. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Van der Bellen, for his excellent report. Come out, trust yourself to do that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I say consciously that the accusation is: instead of qualifying party book. – If you are qualified, you can also have a party book, but if someone is not qualified and has certain posts, as was the case at your time, Mr Edlinger, then the party book economy is in the negative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why I ask you to: Come on. You come here and call me the names of those who have a party book, but no qualification! [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Otherwise, we consider your claims to be a flat-rate diffamation. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say: I am glad and grateful that industrial calibres and entrepreneurs such as Cornelius Groep, Veit Sounde, Veit Worger or Alfred Heinzel were willing to go to the ÖIAG Supervisory Board and that they were willing to bear responsibility for the industrial future of this country. Thank you and the recognition of this Republic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor has already explained how the balance sheet looks: From 87 billion debts on the occasion of the takeover of the office, there was a reduction to 28 billion now. That means we have 60 billion less debts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr Edlinger! I know your "alternative"! Their "alternative" would have been that the taxpayer should repay the debts! Who's to pay it back? – Haven You're a rich uncle from America? Her philosophy is: It is not the ÖIAG that is supposed to sell, but the taxpayer is supposed to pay it! That would mean a tax increase of 60 billion schilling, Mr President. That would have been your policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's come to the main association now. In the speech of the Federal Chancellor, I have heard several calls from the SPÖ series: "Unmistakable!" Mr. Edlinger, too, has "Inconceivable!" Called. I'm asking: What is inconceivable? – Of course, it is inconceivable if, for the first time, 99 percent of Austrians are socially insured at the main association, because of a legislative reform, it is not necessarily a socialist trade union president. This is inconceivable for you, Mr Edlinger, because your mind is: I told you! We are the party, the party is the state, and the state belongs to us! That is why it is inconceivable for you, Mr Edlinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is happening here is politically hygienic and incredibly important for this republic – incredibly important! I'll tell you something. A new management model is introduced by the legislator, which meets the following five criteria. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Blue, Black, Blue, Black!]] Firstly, more professionalism. – Mr Cap, it stops the double track between Obmann, Obmann alternate and another Obmann deputy, a Director-General, a Director-General, and three more directors. That's gonna stop. There is a clear separation of competence. Secondly, more self-management. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Blue, Black!]] – The Minister no longer appoints the Bureau. The self-administration itself appoints the Bureau. Thirdly, more fairness. – As you talk about partnership so often: It's fair to say: Two partners: fifty-fifty! that not from the outset is one always in the minority. Fourthly, greater transparency on the basis of the incompatibility rules. – You don't need to ask again when Sallymutter speaks: Does he now have the hat as a trade unionist or as the head of the association? [[Abg. Oillinger: What kind of hat do you have on?]] Fifthly, no more pragmatized Director-General, Mr Oellinger, but more performance and more motivation; Four-year contracts as an incentive for professional managers instead of political officials. – This is "rerule"!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15201	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15222	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! "Regenerate new" clearly means that the Federal Chancellor only answers the questions in a more italic way when he answers the question and no longer goes into it in detail. Federal Chancellor! I would like to read to you the first question – you know it, but you did not answer it. I would also like to read to you the third question, but have little time, it is: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Read it you like, you have proved it in the Committee!]] "... Should the structures of the other social security institutions be "reformed accordingly" according to the model of the main association?" – Reply Please ask these questions! We asked you something and we also have the right to receive the answer. "Re Government new" clearly means – and it has been made clear from your speech – that in the Prinzhorn sauna or in the common tree case it can be decided on the most important industrial policy interests of this Republic in the circle of friends and that this circle of friends has, so to speak, established a self-referenced system in which one praises it and the other there. Of course, this has nothing more to do with party accounting, but that is simply and simply a friend economy. If you like this term better, I'd like to use it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] "Regenerate new", Mr. Bundeskanzler, describes the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" – which is certainly not an organ controlled by Red-Green – as follows: "The approach smells like "Austria old", the opposite of what the government has promised: "Austria new." – "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" of 3. July, so it's new. "Re Government" – you explain, Mr. Federal Chancellor, how you reduce the deficit of social security – that is the first question – by wanting to eliminate the president of the main association and that, although the ÖVP has lost the national council elections and the workers' chamber elections, in this new body of self-government, which has previously called "verbandeconference" and includes 27 people and will include 38 people in the future – an example of a "slender" structure as it obviously aims at this new federal government – double your number from 11 to 22. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] The number of people assigned to you or ÖVP doubles from 11 to 22. It's "regulatory new." Ladies and gentlemen! "Regenerate new" I return to the deficit and I would like to read a short section of the "New Zurich Newspaper", which reads: "The mediocrely interested layman could have been given the impression for a long time, and existing and foreseeable financial gaps could be stopped with a slimmer administration. However, in view of the cost of a future health system, administrative costs are rather ridiculous." This is not our opinion, but it comes from the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" and, by the way, is also confirmed by a health economist you like to employ, namely the former liberal hanging sign Christian Köck – and yet do you go this way? You can only say what the "Kurier" has called: "Sallmutter away soon, deficit remains." – This is the result of your policy. And you could ask further how in the "standard": "And who's next?" That is what you are characterizing: no reform of content, at least none that can be seen outside; and what you intend to do behind the scenes, namely to change other structures Party-politically, we do not even find out in the answer to your questions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! Because you've been so elegant about the question of veto: It is not the benchmark, I already know, but I would also have liked to know from the ÖVP economic representatives whether they are taking their own promises quite seriously. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Chancellor! Since we are also interested that you take into account what you originally announced, namely a democratization of self-government or social security, and since what you are doing now is the opposite, we also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then, if you take this seriously, we could at least recognize a little hopeful.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15330	The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. We are continuing the debate. Mr Edler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15354	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Col. Stummvoll, Mr Gaugg: My own praise stinks, pride comes before the case! [[Abg. Dolinschek: You liked it!]] You have described it as if everything in the country was all right, as if only you had managed the land in the last few months. – That is not true, ladies and gentlemen! You have taken over an Austrian economy in the upswing, because the government has begun climate change, you have reaped the fruits. But today you are facing the zero deficit, you do not know further and know exactly what difficulties you are facing. Mr Gaugg as a frustrated anti-union founder has spoken here, it is always about his own frustration, he always twists everything. He also called into question the right of demonstration, the right of assembly in principle, but we, the social democracy and the Austrian trade union movement, do not let us: We are in favour of the socially weak, we are in favour of the colleagues in the world of work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent Greens have been very up-to-date, and many things have already been mentioned. The Austrian population is already on holiday, which it wants to enjoy peacefully, and has no interest in what you are "doing" from the government side here. In reality, they do not make reforms, but do a headhunt. They want to have a critical government person, Mr. Sallmutter. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, that's what you're talking about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your reforms are punching works, you have to take note of that. They almost didn't make any essential laws. You've had to bring some laws back. The Constitutional Court has repealed laws for formal defects; we have repeatedly experienced this. Need to do that They're not proud at all. What to understand Are you under reforms in social security, the ORF, the ÖBB, the post office, Deutsche Telekom or the AUA? – This is a purely political overcoloration and not a reform, ladies and gentlemen! Tell the truth what you are planning with good Austrian social security! The Federal Chancellor has also referred to the Federal Republic of Germany, where there are very different conditions of insurance which are not comparable to us, with the solidarity insurance, compulsory insurance. You want to introduce a private insurance obligation, and to do so, ladies and gentlemen, we say no! This is not in question for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's just look at the costs. I would like to give an example: A single earner with an income of around 44 000 S, his wife is at home, with two children, pays for social security a monthly contribution of about 1 500 S. In Switzerland, due to the obligation of insurance, mostly in the context of private insurance, it would have to pay around 4,000 S more. We will not go this way, ladies and gentlemen. They want to intervene by means of an opportunity legislation, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, one of my teachers, a man, an Austrian who had already joined democracy in 1933/34, in 1950 in the resistance, in the defense of Austria, in the Austrian trade union movement, said in a debate that we should be careful, because in the case of austrofascism it has just as started. Therefore, my appeal to the Federal Government: Watch out with your event legislation! [[Abg. Böhacker: No applause!]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== At 5 p.m. on July 1st, a large demonstration at Ballhausplatz. There will certainly be hundreds of thousands of people, and we have always peacefully organized this by the ÖGB. We have also organized the light chain, which Mr Westenthaler meant at the time: That's the red mob. It is unfortunate, Mr President-in-Office, if you see it that way. They will not experience a trade unionist, no official who will not bring his colleagues to a peaceful demonstration. We're talking about the matter. But the trade union movement has to be granted – and this has also been said – that it is also considering what trade union measures can be taken after this demonstration. [[Abg. Adornor: But not under compulsion!]] Mr Tancsits! You laugh! Here you play the parademan, the representative of the economy. As a workers' chamber councillor, you're the parade trader. You should finally know what you're up for. Are you in favour of the workers, or are you in favour of the economy? – Ask your colleague Dinkhauser, he will tell you! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we wear this sticker "SOS democracy" today – Mr Cap has done this – then it must be said that it has grown too. It is legitimate to express that we as a Social Democratic Party are not only afraid of this development, but also that many other people in Austria are afraid. Please consider what you're doing here! Federal Chancellor! They mentioned the social partners. The social partners would have probably found themselves in further negotiations on the reform of social security. Many conversations are necessary to this end. It was – as President Leitel said – first of all about the reform and not about heads. But they are about heads and not about reform. That's the situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, it is to be said: The FPÖ has agreed to represent the "little man". [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] You have received the invoice at the Vienna election. For you, this is only more of an election topic, because in reality you do not represent the "small people" in Austria anymore. Federal Chancellor! The ÖVP bowl has launched a process movement. Your head of state Pröll keeps you in the wheels, which is recognizable. I think you're insecure. You are annoying, but when it comes to making a decision, you have resigned. I address the following words to you, Mr Bundeskanzler: Your policy has failed. They are caught by a very dubious ceasefire. They don't get away from it. Take the hat before it's too late for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15460	The next speaker is Mrs Zierler. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15482	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Edler obviously has real philosophical tendencies, because now, after almost a year and a half, he already realizes that our policy and the policy of the Federal Chancellor has failed. So your philosophy, which you show here, is very remarkable. This is a wishful thought, I understand, but fortunately it is far from any reality. Mr. Edler! They also have some of the strikes that have been organized and are organized again – we think of tomorrow! –, talked and shuddered at how peaceful these demonstrations were, and that this was also the meaning. I do not want to go into what has already happened in these strikes and how dissatisfy these strikes were in part, but that is not the point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The point is: You forgot to say how you mobilize people. In part, people are paid to come to this strike tomorrow, or it will be forced to do so. Two examples: The PVA held an extraordinary operating meeting this week and decided to: Those who go strike can add half an hour at the time of service. These are 2 000 employees, say, 1 000 working hours are charged. Who's funding this? – This strike money is paid by the insured. This is your policy that you are carrying out on the street! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Second example: The apprentices at the ÖBB are poisoned to go to the morning demonstration. There's a stand check. It is counted – before and after. – Thank you, dear SPÖ, dear union, for organizing these peaceful demonstrations you are conducting, where you force people to come and where you pay for it. [[Abg. Edler: Evidence!]] We do not understand this in democracy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Today's debate is marked, of course, all that we have heard so far, once again of an inability, of a polemic and not of facts, and therefore I would like to give you some facts. They are always talking about the big roll of heads, about the roll of heads that this new federal government is showing. It is not about head rolling, but, of course, about heads, when those who are in functions do not correspond to those functions if no reforms are carried out when refusal takes place. [[Abg. May. Worm: To post!]] I would like to remind you – this is no longer up-to-date and perhaps already forgotten by Mr Sallmutter – that in 1997 Mr Sallmutter said: Parties, especially if they bear government responsibility, shall ensure that the overall interest is not lost in the pursuit and achievement of fundamental objectives. They often have to pursue and enforce overarching goals at the expense of individual interests. - That was on the 18th. ==References== Mr Sallmutter sees this differently today, because it is actually only about his own position. Trade unions cannot be a transmission belt of party interests, as was stated in communist trade union theory, and here their political failure was particularly evident. – You are doing it right now! That was also a quote from Mr Sallmutter. Since I have said that it has not been a subject matter of content but of pure polemics, I would like to give you the facts why the main association of social security institutions needs to be reformed urgently. The Court of Auditors' criticism of 7 October 1989 November 2000 reads: In the administration of the main association there is little willingness to save. Instead, there is an increase in the level of staffing, an increase in the number of prejudices, more rewards for employees and an increase in voluntary social benefits to employees. What, on the other hand, is there not? – An IT network between the individual social security institutions. This costs the main association and therefore, of course, the taxpayer 60 million schilling per year. What's not there yet? – Counter-taxation measures in the individual local health telephones, although the financial situation has deteriorated significantly since 1998. What have been the main criticisms for ten years? – We do not speak of a period of a few months or of a year, but we speak of a period of ten years in which one has realized that something urgent must happen, but nothing has happened. It is about the lack of coordination and coordination of the individual cash offices, bodies without decision-making competence, lack of leadership, conflicts of interest among self-government members, insufficient thinking and activities for the overall system, lack of strategy, lack of crisis management, poor exploitation of existing potentials, insufficient proximity to insurance and so on. This list could continue. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the real facts! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] I would like to say a sentence on another subject of today's urgent matter, namely the ORF. Fortunately, we have a lot of time for it tomorrow morning. Today, it has been said that at present there is so much intervention that FPÖ intervenes. – First, the word "intervention" in this context is the wrong term. We are talking about objective reporting, and we have the right to demand it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's where the chickens laugh!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ had not had to intervene in the "State Radio" orf at all before, because there was, of course, a forerunnerous obedience, so that an intervention was ultimately necessary only in very rare cases. You from SPÖ have made sure that the posts were filled accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! I think someone who has worked in this company for 15 years can't pretend anything. Their credibility, on the other hand, is not very great in this respect. As far as your "SOS" is concerned, I see this as a last, desperate signal: The SPÖ just before the fall. "SOS" means: The SPÖ is just ahead of destruction! - But the signal call won't arrive. The SPÖ is going down. What we have resisted is a pulsating, radiant, political heart, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15596	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Tancsit's speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15617	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Debates of the European Parliament Van der Bellen regarding cleansing and headhunting was more likely to be the treatment of ethnological phenomena, but, look, if you read it carefully, it's about the ORF, the ÖIAG, social security and so on. I would like to comment on two points, because, as it turns out, tomorrow the ORF reform and the ASVG reform are to be dealt with in this House, and so this in itself unsuccessful request can be used to perhaps provide some useful evidence for the treatment of these important reform projects. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a coincidence, Mr. Cot!]] First of all, the ORF: In spite of all the differences in broadcasting and public broadcasting, I think one should be undisputed: An Austrian radio, which collects fees by law, must send objectively, independently and with high quality, otherwise it loses the legitimacy to waive fees by force of law. – Therefore, and nothing else is involved in the upcoming ORF reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You, especially you from the opposition, will have the opportunity to decide tomorrow on the constitutional and constitutional security of the independent foundation, which the Central Works Council has requested. We will see how far you are actually on independence or how far you are concerned with posts, power and influence. I also believe that the question of legitimacy is closely related to social security. We have an excellent system of solidarity insurance with the organizational principle of self-management. However, that also means that everyone who is subject to compulsory insurance and is subject to compulsory insurance must have the opportunity to find a corresponding representation in the self-government. "No taxation without representation", stood at the beginning of the Republican Revolution in North America more than 200 years ago. This also applies to social security, and therefore will be represented in a parity in the new management body, in the Board of Directors of Self-Government, in terms of proportion 6 : 6. I think it's a shame that the seniors who are an important group are not here. [[The speaker places a panel with the following title on the speaker's desk "DN: DG 6 : 6".]] The officials will reflect the party landscape of the factions candidates in the workers' chamber elections. What does it look like now? – If one takes the board of directors and the control assembly – 6 : 4 and 4: 7, as regards the servants and service providers – then in truth we have parity. [[The speaker puts another Taferl with the following title on the speaker's desk "DN: DG 6 : 4, 4 : 7".]] Ladies and gentlemen! Why, do you think – you may advise – do I have all the servants in red numbers written on this board? – I can give you the answer: Because, ladies and gentlemen, all the representatives of the staff of the FSG, the Socialist Trade Union Party, have so far been appointed. Given that you dare to claim and write, would it be recolored results?- Oh, my God! What is the current state? Are you telling us where ever elections have taken place, where SPÖ and its political groups have reached 100 percent? – Mr Edler! I think that is not even the case with the railways. Call us the elections, which result in this composition, only because of that, so that you can invite OSCE or UN observers the next time! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that only the chance of representation for every employee, but also for every self-employed person in the self-government institutions, will allow us to maintain and develop an excellent system of solid insurance. That's not a headhunt, ladies and gentlemen, that's democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15674	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15695	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The democratic teachings of my predecessor would actually have to end up in a sentence: In both the ORF and the main association, there must be a reflection of the majority of governments, and that is democracy. Tell me honestly what it is, Mr Tancsits. Their democratic game means that all bodies must virtually reflect the power conditions on the government bank. So it is de facto under the line – Taferl back or Taferl. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I would like to return to the core subject, which is: This government promised reform, but this government virtually only offered to replace proporz systems by new clan systems, through new ropes. Federal Chancellor! – Unfortunately, he is not present now, so I repeat his words. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's already here!]] That's from the old clothes collection. Unfortunately, I missed you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The political weight of the Federal Chancellor is not to be overlooked!]] I therefore repeat your words in particular: In connection with the ÖIAG, they particularly pointed out that the umbilical cord was severed. – Yes, she is separated, that’s no question. The share law applies. But how was the Supervisory Board ordered? Does a "little prince horn" even need a umbilical cord? - I don't think so. I don't think a ropeship needs a umbilical cord, it works without it. You only need to look at the terminology of the bourgeois newspaper "Die Presse". Now I come to the question at first, how this Supervisory Board was ordered by ÖIAG, so that now the share law switches and runs, and the Minister of Finance may find himself at this construction and at this Supervisory Board only as a guest. Well, the Supervisory Board was not ordered by an international tender, as it might have been best, but the Supervisory Board was proposed by a staff office. The call for this staff office was also quite interesting to observe. Four hours after the tender was issued, the decision had already been made four hours later that the Swiss office Zehender received the supplement. The managing director in Austria is Mr. Joachim Kappel, his wife was an employee of Mr. Prinzhorn, and there are also Traugen-Connections. It took four hours for the staff office to be clear to the Supervisory Board. It took another ten hours until there was a list of 44 people from the international manager world. It did not last long – perhaps only half an hour – and the Minister of Finance had broken this list to 14 names. And then it went up, back, and the government chose ten supervisory councils for the ÖIAG. There are certainly friends of Mr. Prinzhorn from the paper industry, there are others too, but they all have a great community: They have personal relationships. It is a clan, a rope company that can renew itself again and again now – this is the interesting one according to ÖIAG law. There's no more governing, it's not necessary either. We don't need a umbilical cord, we don't need any party books, it works the clan, the ropeship is perfect until there's no ÖIAG left. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have nothing against the fact that there are very capable people – perhaps they are really – sitting there if they also prove these skills. But currently, ladies and gentlemen, read the economic pages of the "Standard", the "Press", the "Salzburger Nachrichten"! –, these great capazunders put their skills, their light very much under the sheffel. How else can that happen? – I mean, they have to dress or costume at all times, or they have to behave differently, have other skills than the international manager world ascribes to them. We read again and again, there are supervisory boards being recoloured and replaced, although there are no successors at all. For example, we read in the "Trend", the Telekom is sent to the stock exchange, although the time is very unfavorable. The Ministry of Finance also does not want Deutsche Telekom to have on the stock exchange at the date of November. But no, there are new, ambitious, capable supervisory councils who say: To the stock exchange, to the devil come out! – They want it, they have the ambition, and they do it. The course is now 7.5 y, I think. You bought it around 9, and originally you meant 12 will already be. This is the result of the aberration, the result of the capable heads. This is the result of governance new and your reform policy. Read for yourself, you only need to look up, for example in the "FORMAT", in which Klaus Woltron, certainly not an unnecessary in economic circles, clearly explains: "But instead of being bombastic and without any humility, they would do them" – the Supervisory Boards – "a little peace and quietness. They should prefer to offer their new managers an environment in the state economy where they can work." – Proposal from the economy to the economy. Why do these supervisory boards behave so strangely? – There is an ideology or an essential friend somewhere in the background, so to speak, a pattern over this whole system, and this ideology and pattern insist on doing something certain – no matter if it makes sense or not. It is likely that Mr Ditz, who is being sent around at the pressure of Mr Heinzel, may have to do this again on the pressure of Mr Prinzhorn in order to organize a headroll that is harmful to the company. That is the point on which I would like to come to the end. Herbert Krejci, former Secretary General of the Industrial Union, repeatedly stressed: This policy in the ÖIAG is really extremely dangerous to the economy. – A quote from the "Falter": The game is extremely dangerous for the economy. – This is the judgment of an ÖVP-ler on its own form of government, on its own reform, on the result of this governance new, in a core area of the ÖVP, which was left to the FPÖ and Prinzhorn. The damage does not only have the individual holding – many of which are necessary, a sum in three-digit million heights – but not only has the ÖIAG, not only has the Republic, but also the small shareholders have the damage, the Vienna Stock Exchange also bears the damage, and above all the workers who feel it bitter and then seriously on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15764	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15785	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that during the debate over the last one and a half hours it has been made clear what is happening in this country, namely that this government, especially under your leadership, Mr Bundeskanzler, confuses this country with a self-service shop, that governments are new to you, that there are some profiters on the one hand, and on the other hand a large group of insured employees, left by damaged small shareholders. This is your policy in the ÖIAG. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this area of economic and industrial policy, you are never concerned with an economic policy objective to determine a location. It is not about job-saving measures, but it is only about you to gain power and influence over a corresponding personnel policy that you operate. Although you have announced that you wish to conduct depoliticization, no one will ever do so today, because the only thing that has happened within the ÖIAG is that you have allowed willing artists of the association "Friends of Prinzhorn" – he sits above you – to influence industrial policy, however, to the detriment of this industrial policy and to the damage of the employees in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They got up here and said: Yes, we run a headhunt, yes, there is a headhunt, but a headhunt – you said – takes place after the best heads, and that's why we also served a headhunt company. Federal Chancellor! Do you know the headhunt company you've been serving and of which you claim today, these are those people who make the best minds, the most economically-politically-founded and the best ones to choose from? – This company is a FPÖ-near headhunter company of Mr. Egon Zehnder. The Austrian managing director of this company is Joachim Kappel. Mr President, you are very well aware of Mr Joachim Kappel, for Mr Joachim Kappel's wife was Mr Prinzhorn's press spokesperson. Mrs Kappel was also a short-term press representative of Mr Grasser. And Mr. Principal was the Trauchen of the Lord Kappel. – These are your "independent" headhunters! You are unbelievable on this question, Mr Bundeskanzler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Filzung!]] They do nothing but bring good Austrian companies to public speaking. They are not afraid of discrediting these companies. They do not hesitate to talk about these companies and thus also cause great problems for employees. You do this in such a way that you first bring the Supervisory Board, the Board of Directors, into the discussion of management and then exchange it against FPÖ-near "Friends of Prinzhorn". Hundreds of thousands of people are affected! Federal Chancellor! There's a letter to you. This letter is dated 13.6. and in it the employees' representatives of the ÖIAG contact you and ask you to ensure that these companies do not get into public talk. It is a three-page long letter in which employees tell you their concerns. And what did you answer, Federal Chancellor? – You have been silent to this day! Not even a line you have written back to the employee and thus gave an answer to her letter! That's shameless, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You probably don't know what to write back either! Should you write back the names of the people mentioned by the FPÖ Headhunters? – This is Mr Heinzel, for example, he is the board of directors of the Prinzhorn Foundation, it is Mr Cornelius Group, he is Chairman of the Prinzhorn Foundation, it is Mr. Dr. Veit Sale, he is the board of the Prinzhorn Foundation, it is Dr. Veit Sorger, he is the board of foundations of the Prinzhorn Foundation. – There are profiters, and the profiteer sits over you. [[Abg. Nürnberger: (in the direction of President Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Is that right? Is that right?]] This is a division into occupation zones, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You have obviously entered a deal with the FPÖ to leave the industrial policy of Mr Prinzhorn over you and the ORF Mr Schüssel, that is to say to you personally. That seems to be your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a lot of things have been said about it today: What incompatibilities are there in the main association, in the ORF? What incompatibilities should we introduce? – Mr Bundeskanzler! Do you think it is right that one of the biggest real estate sharks, Mr. Plech, is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Social Housing? Or is that incompatible? – That’s incompatible! But you're silent when it comes to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But that Muzicant is a partner doesn't bother you?]] Federal Chancellor! What do you think if the Chairman of the ÖBB Supervisory Board is one of the largest car companies and if the largest providers of the country are represented in the Supervisory Board? Do you think there will be initiatives to shift the freight from road to rail? – Mr Bundeskanzler! Worry about it! That too is incompatible, but you also keep silent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we will take a closer look at who will be the profiters in this country when Austrian wealth is destroyed. We'll look at this very carefully and pensibly. We will also consider what prices certain people will get. All of this will continue if the masters of the paper industry want to buy the Austrian forest and if the social housing is in truth destroyed by real estate speculators. Therefore, the SPÖ has requested a special audit by the Court of Auditors of the ÖIAG to clarify what flows of money have taken place and who the profiters are. Since your government-new power-noise means your governance-new social reduction and your governance-new democracy reduction means, I am glad that there is an initiative "SOS democracy".
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15900	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15921	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is amazing what concerns the SPÖ are, with regard to the privatisation of the ÖIAG. And it's amazing which memory gaps Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger has. He only needed to look at the Court of Auditors' report on the ÖIAG! My colleague stupidly said to him: Their philosophy is that ÖIAG's debts are paid out of the budget. – Mr Edlinger, you sit there and say: All that's not right. – I ask you: Don't read the reports, or can't you remember? – I can remind you: There is a report from the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] The Court's report looks at the following: From 1995 to 1999, according to a loan agreement from ÖIAG, 18.3 billion schillings for repayments and 13.1 billion shillings for interest, i.e. a total of 31.4 billion schillings should have been repaid. How did you spend this money? – From dividends and privatisations, only 7.8 billion Schilling, from the Federal Budget, Mr Edlinger, 8.4 billion – I emphasize: 8.4 billion from the Federal Budget! – and from other re-debts 15.2 billion. It's basically nothing, nothing happens. You only paid interest and nothing else. The debt level has remained the same. Mr Edlinger, you are also the one who negotiated with the Austrian People's Party at the time to press ahead with the privatisation of the ÖIAG and to put the debt on zero within four years. It is also stated in this agreement, which you have concluded with the ÖVP, which companies are meant to be. This Federal Government has taken this task seriously. This Federal Government has taken this task seriously insofar as it has ceased with the friendly economy that you have operated especially at the Supervisory Boards – especially in the ÖIAG. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] If you had a certain sense of honor, Mr Edlinger, then you would not be involved in a total fragmentation of the Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG by the Green Group! Otherwise, I should have assumed from you that you would have said in a conversation you had with Heinzel, Chairman of the Board of Directors: Watch out for: The particular Supervisory Board is a blue, he can't do anything, he belongs away! - You didn't hear anything. The qualifications of these Supervisory Boards are in order, otherwise you would have had to tell the chairman at that time and draw his attention to it so that he can respond. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] – We do not know that, but in this conversation you obviously did not address it. They simply want to polemize, just as the Green Group is doing here in the House. How far has the privatisation progressed? What is the difference between the privatisation of the SPÖ and the privatisation of the ÖVP and the FPÖ? We have privatized a volume of 33 billion schillings in the last year until April 2001. The ATW is not yet included in it. That is, in sum, a privatisation proceeds of around 50 billion schilling, which contributes to debt. You're saying there's a possibility there's been something sold under the value. . I will give you two examples where the value has been sold, Mr Edlinger! Under the value has been sold, for example, the AMAG. The AMAG received 11.2 billion from the budget from 1991 to 1993, 1.4 billion from the budget in 1994 and 1.2 billion from the budget in 1996 on the occasion of the sale. I repeat: 1.2 billion as a co-donation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] You don't need to distance yourself, you can't! You belong to the club, and you stay with it too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I'll remember what you said now! I'll remember that! I've always believed you're one of the intellectuals!]] Mr Edlinger! Two years later, this AMAG, which has given you a co-donation in the order of 1.2 billion schilling, has generated a profit of 412 million. And what about AT&S? How did the situation at AT&S look like when the company was assessed when it was sold? At that time, AT&S had a turnover of 350 million and a loss of 370 million. This company has been sold by 90 million Schilling to the bidder group around Hannes Androsch, and now it has a stock exchange value of 7 billion Schilling. That's the difference! I believe that the assessments made at the time when you were responsible did not correspond to the facts, otherwise this silver would not have been thrown so cheaply. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This Federal Government is taking an opinion before and lets the whole be judged decently so that the Austrian taxpayer does not come to the handcushion. If privatisation continues so well, ÖIAG will be practically debt-free at the latest in four years, and this will benefit Austrian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16004	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16025	Thanks a lot. . Very briefly, since some points have been mentioned which I would like to contribute to the education. What has actually been privatized? – You should discuss this objectively and then ask: Was that right, or is it wrong? – In principle, three companies have been privatized, so two have been privatized, one has been partially privatized and one is now to be privatized. The postal savings bank has been privatized very successfully. It already requires honesty to say: This was always planned and was actually outside the party dispute, has brought a super result, and, I believe, the ÖIAG can be congratulated on the fact that this has been handled highly professionally. You shouldn't argue about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second: It was always planned that the Austrian tobacco will be privatized, and that it will be fully privatized. That used to be out of dispute – yes, of course! – and this has been put on the privatisation list by this Federal Government. [[Abg. Edellinger: Not! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Edellinger: 25 percent!]] There has been a very professional procedure: together with the Board of Management of the ATW and together with the employees. One should also mention the figures: A few years ago, in 1997, 50 percent were sold by 5 billion Schilling. Now 41 percent has been sold by 10.5 billion – a great process for which the ÖIAG can be thanked. I believe that this has also been a good result for jobs in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Let's talk in three years, Federal Chancellor!]] - Yeah, good. Mr Edlinger! The only case you know very closely from the point of view is the so-called privatization of the CA, namely the sale to Bank Austria. We know the result: This is not a fame sheet for which you need to argue especially loud now! [[Abg. Edlinger: The jobs remain secure!]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] Furthermore, the Dorotheum – now, after the solution of the refund question – is intended for sale. I don't think that's a really controversial point either. And Deutsche Telekom has already been partially placed on the market – admittedly, in a very difficult time. Overall, I do not think these projects have been particularly exciting or dramatic in any way. They were right and are, I think, well done by the ÖIAG. The second is: Do not always make the people who make themselves available as supervisory councils for the ÖIAG, for the ÖBB or for others! And why don't you do a little better, for example, who's all the member of the board of foundations of a certain person sitting behind me? There you will experience some surprises, because much that was claimed here is simply not true. I visited Mr Rottmeyer himself, General Motors Director-General. Until then, I didn't know him. He is now Director-General of General Motors in Aspern – a sensational operation, the best Opel and General Motors operation all over the world! This is a man who shows how to live social partners in the company – in information, in motivation, with the lowest infirmities, with the best employee training! And he has now – the first date was already – composed with the works councils of the railway union and discussed with them how to reform the company in a positive direction. That's how it must be! Stop questioning party politics to anyone who, with this Federal Government, no, takes over a task for this country! For this these people are too bad with God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, the same applies to freight forwarders. There have always been highly successful freight forwarders in the Supervisory Board of the ÖBB, who have gained their know-how so that the ÖBB can also benefit from it. As you may know, a freight forwarder does not live by the fact that he is working against the ÖBB, but rather by being able to make a great offer to the economy with the railway. & Again: If you have something to criticise for party politics, then address this to us! We'll hold this off, even if the criticism is so "sacred" as it was this afternoon. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] That's what we're holding out with God! But let those people who work for the country get out of the game, because they don't deserve it. On the last point, on the political representation: If you use d’Hondt for six representatives, both for employees and for service providers, I will tell you: According to each invoice, due to the election of the Chamber of Workers, for example, the ÖAAB has two representatives and there is a different representation on the service provider side. [[Abg. Edeller: After all, black majority!]] The only thing you can say now – and that can be criticised if you want; perhaps we will discuss this point too – is: It is true that with the service providers of the Economic Union, the Free Economic Association with this solution, which we find here, a mandate is voluntary. And it is true that the Socialist Group is delegating the liberal workers to this solution. But one thing I have to say: A special excitement, words such as "general strike" or "fall of democracy" does not justify this! [[Abg. Edler: You'll kill off the majority!]] Therefore: Let's get things back to the ground where they belong.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16178	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Deputy Dr. Einm! § 58 GOG you know. Start the playback of the claim to be corrected and face it with the corrected facts! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16224	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My reigns on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has just claimed – and he was trying to find out what he was doing – that there would have always been freight forwarders in the Supervisory Board of the ÖBB. – This claim is wrong. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] In the previous Supervisory Board of the ÖBB, there was no freight forwarder because at the time I had put extraordinary importance on not leaving even very qualified Mr. Schachinger on the Supervisory Board. [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... the Dr. Schachinger!]] He has therefore no longer been in the Supervisory Board because he is a competitor of the ÖBB and as such had nothing lost there! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: But he's still been ordered by you!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16293	Mr Donabauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16332	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It simply cannot be that everything that has happened or has been done so far, so everything that is old is without exception right and that everything new is without exception bad! [[Abg. Arbitrators: And vice versa?]] No one believes that! You don't think that's human. Ask the citizens! Listen, please. This will be no different if you suddenly start actions – whether these ads are paid by the members of the trade union, or other actions. [[The speaker will hold a newspaper board to the height of]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] They'll have to tell them anyway. Mr Vergestnitsch says that tomorrow, with special trains, thousands of people would be born, and he does not exclude anything. – I have to say, Mr President: What you do, you will have to answer! [[Abg. Silhavy:... unanimous decision!]] I believe that you are also responsible for this country in the opposition. Please be aware of this task! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For me, the author of the Taferln, the first Taferlheber, was sitting here. [[the speaker looks to the right]] The fact that you too are taking action is your right. But how do you interpret your SOS signal? That's the signal of a submerging ship. One could also say: Socialists without sensitivity to citizens' questions! You could say that, too. Whatever you want, you could comment on it with a lot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] In any case, I would like to ask Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen thank you for this urgent request, which he has presented in his typical way. He thus gave the Chancellor the opportunity to say again quite clearly and clearly how politics is being made in this country and that a good policy is being made. Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen! If you write in your request that the government has undertaken to re-rule Austria, I must say: She has also achieved her goal. I would ask you to consider the budgetary policy: No new debts! The youth, the future will no longer be burdened. Isn't that great? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or: 50 years no answer, no solution in the compensation question. This government did it! The US thanked us. Listen to this, please! This is a unique thing! Or: Pension reform. We have done something for our youth, but while respecting the interests and rights of the present generation. You don't need to hide that! You can show this clearly and openly! If you write in this request: "The government has promised reforms," I can only tell you that it largely complies with this promise. Only: At last you have to follow it, perhaps also accept it, and perhaps, incidentally, when it comes to the future of this country, this citizen, too, as an opposition! Maybe that's a good thing for you. You mentioned the ORF several times here and today. I ask you: What will bother you if there is a variety of media in the future? What if we finally get there where almost all the countries of Europe are already today? What would bother you if there was more journalistic freedom? If you don't believe that, read it! I have a whole bunch of press quotes. [[The speaker keeps several documents in height.]] In this you can look up and read how much everyone longs for this journalistic freedom to actually exist in Austria. Don't you hear what the citizens say? – "Time in picture 1" and "Time in picture 2" is getting shorter and shorter. The interesting shipments will be sent later and later at night. It's not taking into account people's needs. All these are blatant weaknesses that we want to do better now! Nor will it bother you that there will now also be private providers. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Donabauer, please apply!]] That's going to be Don't bother you, do you?- Oh, my God! You have more options to choose from. It is a pleasure because you too have a right to independence, and I think the ORF has the duty to practice it. Now to the ASVG and the main association. This is an advanced debate. I do not know whether Mr President Sallmutter really wants this or whether you really want Sallymutter. I don't know, that's your theme. The fact is that not only has been badly worked in the social policy of Austria until today, no! I am one who stands for this development. But one thing is clear: There are contributions to be managed by all citizens, which is why all groups of citizens have the right to be represented there. You can't agree to that either, it would be undemocratic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One thing is clear: They asked for answers. Perhaps social policy, the social administration has not answered the questions clearly enough to date, or has partially suppressed them. I personally believe that you should clarify a lot. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The main association is not your world alone, but the main association is one thing of all of us. This is the umbrella of the Austrian social security funds. And in the main association not everything is bad, but much could be better. Personally, I believe that we should not lead the self-government here, but the self-management exists for me when the President and the Vice-President are elected and not appointed. [[Abg. Gaál: You have no right to change that!]] And a self-management exists for me when the management and the Director-General are elected and not appointed. You must admit: When you took Minister Geppert away from the government bank and sent him to the main association, it was Minister Hums who appointed him the Director-General there. Ladies and gentlemen, these are flaws! Admit it! It can't go on like this! [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Donabauer, you have not read it!]] It's got to be better now! – Mrs Silhavy, it will not fail if you say your opinion here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you not know what you decide in the ASVG-Novelle?]] You have to do it differently. You know that we are in a real emergency in the IT field. We need acute action there. [[Abg. Kiss: A real scandal!]] That's what everyone says, including your people! Then we'll do better at last! We need to harmonise performance rights. There is a lot to do there, but unfortunately little has been done so far. Why has the chip card been ritualized or ceremonialized for so long? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] This could have been implemented better and faster! Or: When Parliament decided to raise the prescription fees for good reason, namely, that the system should remain eligible for funding, the main association – and I have to create this here and today – has ordered that a board be set up in all pharmacies, but not with "the recipe fee has been raised", as in ancient times, but "the government has done this"! Ladies and gentlemen! Such debt allocations must not be offered, this must be said very clearly once! And I mean, we're talking about this situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you cry and regret the custody right today, then do it! The Federal Chancellor has read to you paragraphs 448 and 449 of the ASVG. A few days ago, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., we heard from the Greens an ASVG reading. Mr Oellinger, the voice has been lost to you because you have anyway brought nothing but to read it down. It says: This is still the law in force, and this should continue to be applicable in the interests of the matter in the future. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] These are the messages we give you on this urgent request. On this urgent request you will get a very clear answer from us Who wants to keep good, has to change a lot. [[Abg. Oils: Sit down! Not enough!]] – We do it in the interests of this country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16574	The next item is Mr Haigermoser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16595	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on Mrs Bures' comments. Mrs Bures, you have the forehead to go here and talk about a self-service shop used by the government? [[The speaker presented a paper entitled "Buenos Dias – SPÖ, Viktor Klima, 27 million OES" on the speaker's desk.]] It is you, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ, who you have covered with your Minister, your Federal Chancellor's climate? They were sitting at the case of the self-service shop and did not deliver the slogan, but put it in their own pocket, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] And if you had made the effort, in the last days and hours the Court of Auditors report... – Yes, that is unheard of, colleague! [[Abg. Gradwelt: Unheard of!]] If you had looked at the Court of Auditors report on "Euroteam" and the machinations around "Euroteam", you would have been silent about collection and self-service today. [[Abg. Oillingers: They're coming up late! You could have known that before!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Half a sentence to your accusation, at Mr. Pelech, it's a "Immobilienhai". I'm just asking the question in the room: What would happen? You say if you call Mr. Muzicant "Immobilienhai"? [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] That's just one question I leave to someone else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The actual correction of the honourable Member One has also said something about his economic understanding and what kind of enemy he has. He sees only enemies in the economy! A freight forwarder has lost nothing in a Supervisory Board of the ÖBB because he is the competitor. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Because he competes with the ÖBB!]] [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Reverse it was!]] If you know – but you know that anyway, Mr One – that the ÖBB is the country's largest freight forwarder, that is, the subsidized, then I would like to talk about how this imbalance has come to be at the competitive level, Mr. Einm! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, right!]] Her old-stalinist economic understanding has once again revealed itself. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Majority and democracy have been spoken of. Vice-President of the Niederösterreich Chamber of Commerce. I acknowledge that, for example, the Free Economic Association will be represented in the main association with a mandate, although it would not grant him the results of the election. In other words, there are more minority rights in place than has been the case until then. [[Abg. Edler: Stop, Haigermoser!]] – So much for the truth and for "SOS democracy"! Now to Mr Van der Bellen. You'd almost remember the saying: As the bad guy thinks, so is he! – The language slippers of Van der Bellen’s request were today, in keywords: "Surveyments", "head hunt", "resistance nest", "recoloration", "interventions", "threat" and, last but not least, he has put on a piece of cream – "smoothing". [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: smoking!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We reject this violence of language! [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is you, Mr Biedermann Van der Bellen, that once again the mask may fall from the face. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stop the Holler!]] You play in front of the fine Maxi, and behind you the old Stalinists are waiting for the blow of a Mr. Ollinger and a Mr. Peter Pilz. But the Austrian voters are coming along pretty slowly! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, we do not defend a system, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16761	Your speaking time is over, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes!]] The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16815	I come to the conclusion, Mr President: We do not defend a system that has lived up to now at the expense of the insured, but we are on the verge of reforming this system so that health policy becomes a better one than it has been until now.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16845	Mr Haigermoser! For the term "Alt-Stalinist" I give you an order call. In addition, I will have the minutes of your speech brought, as you have accused someone in a passage of having worked in your own pocket, and you might get a second call for order for that. Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16881	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now discussed politically very sensitive issues for almost three hours. I think it is a testament to the political culture to say that it was actually good that the Green Group brought in this urgent question. This has given the Federal Chancellor and the government groups the opportunity to disarm many of the arguments put forward in it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Many red-green balloons, Mr President Fischer, are broken up like a soap bubble! [[Abg. Arbitrators:... talk the same! Put like a balloon, not like a soap bubble!]] I can summarize this very briefly: With regard to the first accusation, party book economy, two hours ago I called on Mr Van der Bellen to come out and mention specific cases of party accounting. – No case could be mentioned, ladies and gentlemen! This accusation has been rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, Mr Van der Bellen has claimed that the government would be holding a headroll here instead of using headshunters and personnel consulting companies that are looking for the best people. – Mr. Bundeskanzler has shown very detailed how many staff consulting companies have reflected on how many candidates. [[Abg. Bures: These are the friends of Mr. Prinzhorn!]] – Mr Van der Bellen, too, this accusation is outraged. Thank you many times for the urgent request! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bures: Who is the staff consulting firm, Mr. Stummvoll?]] The third accusation, which is also in the expensive newspaper inserates, calling for tomorrow's demonstration, reads: Massive danger to democracy. . Both Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr. Walter Tancsits have shown very precisely with concrete figures that there is not only no massive threat to democracy, but also that democratic results are taken into account here – with two additions: that once an employer from the Socialist Group has the opportunity to be on the Board of Directors at the expense of those representatives of employers who send the Economic Federation, and that, vice versa, a free employee representative has the opportunity to also take part in the Board of Directors. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is the "right" chandelier!]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes! As in the trade union public service!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] These are the only two supplements in terms of minority protection compared to the purely d’hondt system. The accusation of the massive threat of democracy is absurd on the one hand, which obviously does not want to recognise democratic majority relations in this House. What does tomorrow's demonstration mean in the ads that people are being carried with buses and trains? [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] This is a political demonstration against Parliament and against democratic majority voting in this House, ladies and gentlemen. And that is not good for political culture in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] The fourth accusation, first in the listing: Destruction of the social security system. – No opposition speaker has been able to demonstrate which performance is to be reduced by this draft reform, which is to be broken down here. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This nonsense...!]] The accusation has dissolved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Activities It is based on concrete facts such as the Federal Chancellor and not on cheap lump-sum accusations! But this is your fundamental opposition, and we reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There was also no way to disprove the advantages of this reform, for example the advantage that double-tracking is eliminated, that the management is now publicly announced that professional managers should be ordered to give motivation and performance, so that a case can no longer occur, as it has been mentioned, because of a decision in the SPÖ or ÖGB presidency: [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: There is no one either!]] He's not supposed to be a social minister anymore! How do we take care of him? Let's make him a pragmatized director in the main association! That too will no longer exist in the future! This is a very important contribution to political hygiene in this country, ladies and gentlemen. None of the opposition speakers could disprove the successes of the ÖIAG leadership. A reduction of 60 billion schilling within a year and a half as a protection for the taxpayer who would otherwise have had to pay is an incredibly strong success balance of the new ÖIAG leadership. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you on behalf of the two government groups for this urgent question. She was a 3 : 0 victory for the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17089	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17111	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! The previous speaker is forcing me into a replica. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you honestly: I see – with all appreciation! – not a, why you want to make the right of demonstration bad with the term “in buses and trains”. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What? "estimation"?]] How are people supposed to be like buses or trains? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I want you to come voluntarily!]] Stop it with the Holler! We're going to reject that! That's a humiliating polemic. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You don't have tractors!]] But that fits into the picture! Now we come to the actual summation. In fact, the Federal Chancellor has not answered anything at all, although he has spent a lot of speaking time. He hardly answered a question. Let us come to the social partners! The end of the concordance democracy, which has been initiated with this government, is one thing. That's what you can stand for. But if we are only weakening one side as far as social security is concerned, then this is a reactionary process. You should have that written in the main book! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With regard to journalists' intimidation, a somewhat credible dementi was acceptable, at least as far as much of the attempts are concerned. The attempt by this government to do so is also appropriate, which leads to the painful institu­tion paragraphs. So at the latest at this point: 2 : 2, Colleague stupid! [[Abg. Kiss: In the Styria is counted differently!]] As regards the ÖIAG: You don't have to separate anyone from the umbilical cord here. I think so. It's not about party accounting at all. Never before in this Republic has the term "friendly economy" experienced such a tangible charge as now in the ÖIAG. If you don't believe me, we'll have Ditz speak for ourselves. ==References== In an interview, Ditz said: The ÖIAG must finally be released from politics's hostagery. – And he also said: Since the change of government, the behaviour of politics towards the ÖIAG has changed completely. [[Call the Freeman:Ready time!]] And now it comes: Although he himself was in politics, he was shaken. You used to be not at least...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17199	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17215	... to put a company at risk. – I guess this has to be approved as a leniency.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17239	I suppose that was the closing point. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You take it wrong!]] [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was a bad end! That was quite a crash!]] A second speech is made by Mrs Bures. Time left: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17290	I would like to point out that, in connection with the professional occupation of the ÖIAG posts, a lot is obviously going wrong – apart from the fact that professional managers like Mr. Draxler, who has laid one of the best ÖBB balances, are obviously being eliminated from you only out of lust and mood. To say it again: This headhunt company is a FPÖ-near company. Her managing director is the friend of Mr. Prinzhorn. [[Abg. Neudeck: We already heard that!]] Mr. Prinzhorn is his witness, and his wife was the short-time speaker of Federal Minister Grasser. So don't talk about independence! It is the association "Friends of Prinzhorn", which serves at the ÖIAG. That's one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second – also because of the initiative "SOS Democracy" – seems to me very important. I think it's bad enough that you've been trying to make a choice for days, namely, the Chamber of Labour...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17323	Please put the final sentence, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17349	... to reverse the workers' election outcome. But I'll tell you the following: The freedom of demonstration in this country will not be taken by the Austrians from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17383	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the abolition of veto law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on democratic elections for the self-management of social security funds. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Call to the liberals: Oh!]] 5. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the new EU referendum (445/683 and 683 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17434	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Arbitrator is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17462	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats are committed to the European Union. We confess to their enlargement. We confess to their further development. We see in her not only an economic project, but also a peace project. We believe that it was good and right for our country to join the EU and remain in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, we have taken this popular desire and its representatives very seriously in the Committee, because, even if one does not agree with such a desire in the outcome, it is highly appreciated that people in this country use an instrument of our democracy at their expense, with their efforts, to bring what they consider subjective for the state to apply to the legislation. I was impressed by the commitment of these people. I was also impressed that they have been very active in many related issues, such as the preservation of our neutrality, animal welfare and other areas. Their efforts were based on the desire to vote again on EU accession. They have gone from two directions: first of all, from the direction that EU accession should be suspended, because in their opinion not everything has been presented as it should have been. Secondly, they meant that the experience since our accession to the EU should be used to judge once again whether this step was right or not. We believe that it was right to join the EU and that it is right to remain in the EU. This is an opportunity for our country, which is an opportunity for Europe, which serves this continent and its people, and we should be actively involved. Of course, there are things – today some have already been addressed – in which we see weaknesses and mistakes in this project, but they need to be changed in order to strengthen the Europe project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the representatives of the people's desire have also wanted or felt that any desire of this kind leads to a vote being held on this issue. This is the meaning of their desire. In this regard, the question should be considered as to how a Parliament actually has to act. How often does it have to be seen as an opportunity to vote? Can such a vote be carried out? And: Is it theoretically possible to leave or not? In this respect, different opinions have been expressed. I have rather attached myself to the view that, of course, it must not be possible for you to leave the EU, not immediately and not without a transitional provision, but it must be possible, although we would not, of course, recommend it. Nor do we believe that every popular desire should lead to a referendum. But every popular desire should always be an opportunity for a parliament to consider whether a decision that has once been submitted to the people needs to be returned to the people under certain conditions. I think this examination has taken place very seriously. We come to the conclusion: This popular desire cannot be followed. It is good to be in the EU. It is not the time to question accession, but it is nevertheless to be seen as positive that people have been committed to something they believed necessary for our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17525	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17546	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This popular desire should also be an occasion for us to think about how strong the time before the 12. June 1994, the day of the referendum, was marked by a "without If and But" accession propaganda. If we look into the archives today and remember once again, as at the time, all the media, many parties, many public bodies, all that will be gained by accession, and only very little, Mr Schieder, if we look at this now seven years later, about the problems that could also arise on us, then we have to say, in retrospect, that this excellent result for the advocates of accession – it was for the two thirds who voted in favour, and this is also to be respected – could also be achieved because the information was not comprehensive. There has been a "without If and But" accession campaign in which a great deal of resources, including public funds, have been spent to support this campaign. However, there has been little public funding to be able to provide information on the problems that will arise. I am convinced – and just one example – that hardly any Austrian who voted in favour of accession at the time knew that he had already given his consent to Austria's participation in the European Community currency. I'm deeply convinced of that. I therefore mention this example, because the development of the euro today shows that much of what was actually said by the Freedom Party in the context of its own popular desire has been done so. But at that time too, we who have always tried to critically question accession... [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] No one, no other party has been so intensely concerned with decision-making as the Freedom Party has done, dear colleague! We have held three days of parties publicly to which we have invited advocates, opponents and experts to discuss with us together. And on the third part-session in Villach, in a secret vote, the course of the Freemans was set, Mr. Cot. No other party represented in this House has done so! We are facing today the situation that 200 000 Austrians have announced in writing that they are in favour of leaving the European Union. And this is serious, because I am convinced that there are many more Austrians who have not signed this popular desire, but who think the same. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: What do you want?]] We are in favour of a European Union, for politicians in the European Union, who are finally able to make this European Union closer and more transparent so that people can get rid of the feeling that they are being crossed. With the post-Nizza process, we have a chance because it is about developing a catalogue of competence, which should once be clear and clear as to what the European Union and what the national states are all about. We will make massive efforts to ensure that only the European Union is what is really best taken up there. It will have to be discussed whether there are certain policies that should be relocated to the national level, because they are far better removed there. We will also need to discuss the involvement of national parliaments in the decision-making process at European level. And we will be very committed to the fact that the involvement of national parliaments is a good one and that the will of national parliaments will also come to bear there. That's what we'll do in the future. We will deal intensively with the proponents of popular desire, listen to their proposals, and include them in our reflections as far as possible. I can promise the proponents of popular desire from this point on.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17592	Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17613	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! 194 000 signatures, this is a number that make it necessary to deal seriously with popular desire. I believe that it was right for the Constitutional Committee to deal with this popular desire in so much detail in three sessions, as hardly any popular desire in this House has been dealt with. At the last meeting in a hearing, we also heard in detail arguments by experts who made the operators of this popular desire known, but also by experts who made the political groups famous. This was the subject of the discussion. What I would like to say about the arguments put forward on behalf of my group is that the reason for the popular desire is that there are arguments which cannot be put forward quite so. First of all, it is claimed that, before the referendum, statements and promises were made in Austria by most official bodies, which later proved to be irrelevant. In particular, it is pointed out that one would have promised that the schilling would be maintained. After my memory – I was myself an expert at many events at the time – I have the promise that the schilling will be maintained, never heard, neither by an official organ nor by any so-called expert. Of course, it has been overshadowed, in one direction or another, as is quite common in discussions, but promises of this kind have not been made. I would really like to protect all the experts who took place at the time. This cannot be allowed to happen in such a way that it was promised in those days. Secondly, the operators of popular desire also argued that Austria’s loss of sovereignty was not clearly addressed to the population at that time. - That's not right, either. That is why we have just carried out a referendum in Austria, because it was a loss of sovereignty in Austria and an overall change in the federal constitution has been accompanied. I therefore believe that this argument is not valid. Thirdly, it is also said that the proposed abolition of the principle of unanimity in the European Union has not been communicated to citizens. – That is not true either. The majority principle is already enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty and the Single European Act before that. It is therefore also technically not correct what is being said here. I would therefore like to sum up from our point of view: The arguments put forward here were part of the discussion before the 1994 vote. There is nothing new about it, so there is no reason to vote on it again. We have, as I believe, dealt very properly with this in committee, partly outside the committee, in the political groups. We can therefore conclude that we must take note of the scepticism of the 194 000 Austrians who exist there and there concerning the European Union. I keep our path, which we are now trying to go, namely, in all the developments of the European Union, in a very close connection with the education of the population to involve the people in this process, for the right way – also as an answer to the scepticism expressed by the 194 000 signers by their signature.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17665	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17686	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that these nearly 194 000 signatures under this popular desire express the dissatisfaction with the way in which decisions in this Union will be taken, that they are not transparent that there are, in part, absurd rules. Examples: Cucumber length, tractor seat sizes and the like. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: cucumbers!]] – cucumbers, no matter what. There is dissatisfaction that many things are made too little known in the population and that there are too few tendencies to be More closeness, explanation and transparency, as well as creating more democracy in this EU. It's going to be too slow, and that's why there's this discomfort. This is also one of the reasons why the vote in Ireland has been as successful as it has just been. There are fears there, which are partly also borne by the Greens. The fact that the Austrian neutrality, including this House, was undermined by the federal governments we had, is also something that simply creates fears, which is why people say: That's not how we want it! – Also in the field of environmental protection, animal welfare, there are things that are not the same as we wanted them from the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are many points from the content that we share as criticism of the European Union's too little preparedness with the initiators and initiators of this popular desire. One point where we do not want to give in to the desire – and I will now justify why – is the question of a new referendum. The question is very well: What is the consequence of this criticism? – In our view, this cannot be a new referendum at the present time, because since 1994, it has not changed the basics of what would legitimise a new referendum. What makes sense is that if there is indeed a new constitution of this European Union – and in this direction it should go – there is a referendum on it. But this is not yet in sight. Every few years, because there is criticism, and there are legitimate criticisms in individual points, to carry out a referendum – I must say, I was amazed at the fact that the Liberal Democrat Schweitzer and his group did not also call into question the support of a referendum on enlargement and similar things – and to misuse popular elections from populist and, in part, nationalist interests, against which we Greens have decreed ourselves. There is another reason for our attitude, and I would like to make this clear in an example. Imagine what the Austrian population, which would think of those who advocate more democracy, if we were to say now – the nuclear lobby is known to be back in the morning, because the US does not want to decide the Kyoto target –: Let's take the supposedly clean nuclear energy! And imagine, someone asks: If we make a new referendum into Zwentendorf, we might be able to put that back into operation. Would you agree? We would certainly not be in favour of this. I think that popular elections are sensible and necessary if you want to change things fundamentally, but not if someone, for example, comes up with the idea of repeating the vote on Zwentendorf. I would like to make it clear to you: We Greens are not therefore opposed to a new referendum, to a referendum on the question of leaving the EU, because we would fear it or believe that referendums are not legitimate, but we doubt the sense of such a procedure at the present time. Finally, we were also those who said before the Austrian referendum: For us Europe is bigger than the EU! – And this is precisely the reason why we are now calling for rapid enlargement. This Europe needs to grow together quickly, and to do so it needs funding, and political decisions are needed to do so, and the appropriate rules are needed in all areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A rapid enlargement is necessary, but not a campaign that calls for Austria to leave this undoubtedly improving EU and become what it once was – some imagine it, live in the illusion of the past, and think that Austria was once an island of the Blessed – because there is no way of really decoupling in a global networked world. We speak against such a decoupling strategy. The question is: How to resolve the deficits? . This is only possible if this European Union is democratised, if at last this economic and monetary union, which is already in place, is put equivalent to a political Union and a social Union, or a political one that governs economic and monetary union. The Union must develop in this direction, and this is only possible if there is, in fact, a separation of power, so that governments are not at the same time the legislators, as is the case with the European Councils at present. A separation of powers which gives more rights to the European Parliament, namely those rights which actually exist in a Parliament, requires the establishment of a constitution for this European Union. This is possible because we are talking about greens and many of the nearly 194 000 who have signed the popular desire to introduce environmental and social minimum standards and to try to ensure that ecology and social things are guaranteed in this European Union, that existences are guaranteed and that environmental issues are basically anchored. In order to achieve fundamental rights, the majority must be guaranteed through the European Parliament both in the EU countries and within the EU, so that Europe can change in this direction and actually become the peace project as it is understood by at least a few. That is why we take very seriously the concerns of those who have signed the popular desire, but see the right way in which to stay in the European Union and in the co-design and change within this Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17740	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17761	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the Proponent Committee of the People's Desire "New People's Election"! I should like to begin by congratulating you, as I have already done in the Committee, on your success, which you have undoubtedly achieved, because taking into account the formalisms that are necessary, notarial certification of the signatures and so on, it is a remarkable achievement to create about 194,000 signatures. I can also say that, of course, it has not been done with these 194 000 signatures and that one cannot draw the turnaround – just as a German chancellor once did –: Whoever has not signed is automatically different opinion! Only a few days ago, a well-known opinion research institute presented an investigation finding that approximately 25 to 30 percent of citizens are considering leaving the European Union. That is to say, this is not a sectarian minority opinion, but an opinion that, from today's point of view, is obviously divided by almost one third of the Austrian population. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee and in the hearing, I have expressed the view of my group that the FPÖ cannot speak on a repetition of the 1994 vote for a number of reasons. On the one hand – which has already been mentioned several times –: There is, in law, the principle "nee bis in idem", i.e. not to decide twice in the same case, and I believe that one should try to put a democratic decision – and a referendum is pure direct democracy, as it cannot be purer – not quite simply out of power. This should apply in general, especially since it is always criticised that in other countries the rulers are so often allowed to vote until the vote results match. Secondly, I am opposed to a withdrawal and to a referendum aimed at it, because it would undoubtedly result in the isolation of Austria. It would be a unique act that a national state withdraws from an economic alliance of western embossment. We are not in the COMECON, but will be in the European Community. I am convinced that Austria would not be equated with Switzerland, with which we are looking for cooperation on the part of the European Union through bilateral agreements. We would rather be a country that has left the Community through an unkind act – and as such would of course be an exit. But I don't want to say, too, that I was convinced by an argument by Professor Walterskirchen. He said: Let's pass the last few years of Revue! ==References== Austria joined the European Union in January 1995. How has the economy of Austria developed since then compared to Switzerland? It must be said that Austria has developed economically more economically than Switzerland. – This is an argument I can follow completely. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Proponents of this popular desire! In any case, they have achieved one thing: All the participants discussed a reform of the institutions. I believe that this is important because there is a dissatisfaction because there is a great need for reform of the institutions in the European Union. The Commission is not democratically legitimate, not directly democratically legitimised, but the individual Commissioners are sent there by the national governments, without any choice. Or: Parliament does not have the legislative powers that exist in national parliaments. This and others justify this discontent very clearly. I can still say to my predecessor: If you are talking about direct democracy and referendum, I will only share your argument in one aspect, namely if you are voting against a referendum on a causa that has already been voted on. Moreover, to say that there are areas which are not suitable for direct democracy, for a referendum, I cannot agree. I believe that the opposite is the case. If we take democracy seriously, we must take it seriously. They believe that there should be a partial democracy – where the citizen is powerful and democratically able to vote – but in certain sub-areas where the citizen is supposed to be unable to vote, there should be no direct democracy. – We reject that. Kirchschlager was perfectly right when he said: There is no question in democracy, which would not be accessible to the public either.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17823	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17845	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The National Council, in two committees, namely in the Committee on Petitions and in the Constitutional Committee, has dealt very closely with the popular desire for a re-examination of the EU vote. I would like to oppose the claim that Members of this House were not sufficiently concerned with such an important issue. In the Committee on Petitions, representatives of the people's desire have had the opportunity to take part in the deliberations and also to present their ideas. And the Constitutional Committee has also dealt with this subject in a very detailed manner twice. In formal terms, then, the National Council has done what it could do. Not every citizens' initiative, not every petition will be in the Committee on Petitions according to § 100 lit. c the Rules of Procedure of the National Council shall be assigned to another committee for consideration. The Committee could also have decided what has already happened in other cases to withdraw from the negotiations at once. But, as we said, the subject was far too important to us. In the Constitutional Committee there was then a hearing procedure in which the representatives of the People's Desire could express their views themselves, but could also nominate experts and nominate experts. The Rules of Procedure have not been strictly interpreted by the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, but very far. Now on the content: A popular desire, supported by some 200 000 Austrians, undoubtedly has weight and no doubt has meaning. We know that this popular desire is borne by idealists. This shows many personal conversations, but also many letters and addresses. However, my group's foreign policy spokesperson and also my immediate predecessor pointed out that in 1994 the majority of citizens opted for Austria's accession to the European Union. As democrats, we have taken note of this vote of the people of the state. It is now important to express the Austrian position in the European Union's bodies. I think the Federal Government, with the Treaty of Nice, has succeeded in preserving the essential and important interests of our country. I am thinking in particular of maintaining the principle of unanimity, i.e. the right of veto, in such sensitive areas as asylum policy and also the question of Austrian water resources. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The prospects for the future in the case of an enlargement of the European Union are still not certain. In my opinion, if the negotiations with the applicants are satisfactory, there is nothing against enlargement from the Austrian side. This would be the case, for example, if the admission criteria were met by the candidate countries, such as Hungary, if the transitional periods for the Austrian labour market were secured and if some other things were done more. However, if the outcome is not in line with Austrian interests after the conclusion of the negotiations, I believe that, for constitutional reasons, a referendum will not certainly be excluded. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we take the concerns of the people seriously and also note the popular desire.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17905	Ladies and gentlemen! I now have the minutes of Mr Haigermoser's speech. Mr Haigermoser, with regard to the speech by Mr Bures, you have referred to the following: "They've been sitting at the case of the self-service shop and haven't delivered the slogan, but they've put it in their own pocket." This is a totally inappropriate accusation for which you are – even if you value your humor! – can't understand. I'll give you a call for order. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee, its report 683 of the supplements within the meaning of § 24 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 438/A by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, Dr. Andreas Kholund comrades concerning a federal law with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Pension Law 1956, the Pensions Act 1965, the Additional Fees Act, the Richterdienstgesetz, the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz 1984, the Land- und Forstwirtschafts Landeslehrer-Servicegesetz 1985, the Bundestheaterpensionsgesetz, the Partpensionsgesetz, the Constitutional Court Act, the Poststructural Act and the Federal Railway Law 1992 are amended and the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz is created (Pensionsreformsgesetz 2001) (699 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17978	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. Mrs Dr Mertel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18006	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! I'm almost trying to find out: I don't think so. [[Yes, rupture and detonative condolences with the liberals.]] But I notice something. For one thing, I notice: The formula "speed kills" has overtaken itself. Now it is usually quite slow and sluggish, and most of the time you spend rewording laws and repairing your laws, and you also spend time contradicting each other. [[Abg. Neudeck: to explain to you! This is a difficult task, Mrs Colleague.]] On the other hand, I notice your absolute inability to learn. A model example of this is the present Pension Reform Act, which is being debated for the second time for today, almost unchanged, and is in the process of decision-making. A year ago, the SPÖ raised our concerns about all the errors in the pension reform, and we asked you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, at the time, on behalf of all those concerned – and this has turned out to be correct – to divert and avoid unnecessary hardness. [[Abg. Böhacker:... everything proved to be incorrect!]] However, we did so in vain. After the abolition of your legislation, that is, the so-called pension reform, by the Constitutional Court, you once again had the opportunity to make it better. But you too have rejected this opportunity once again, because all the unnecessary hardships of this law remain true: the pension reductions, the pay cuts, the reduction of widow's pension... [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll goes to the government bank and begins a conversation with Vice Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] Mr. Stumbling! I don't like it when I'm talking behind my back, and I also agree that I'm standing here alone, and I'm looking for you to know that They don't always come into this talking room. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll goes to his seat.]] The toughness of this law also includes the reduction of widow's pension, the forced retirement and the reduction of the reference for malignancies. I know you're expecting the oblivion of people, you put on beautiful speeches and words, but the damage you're doing can be calculated to prove it to you, that's what you can expect. In the future, those concerned will have less money in their pockets. There are dramatic losses in life-earners, higher reductions in early pensions by increasing the age of arrival. A 59-year-old academic of the A1 usage group costs this reform in the life-earning sum 640 000 S, a 59-year-old law firm costs her 443,000 S, and a 59-year-old German teacher loses even 843,000 S. The increase in the pension contribution by 0.8 percent results in income losses between 1 900 S and 4 500 S per year. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's not what you're saying! Go ahead.]] By increasing the pension contribution, pensioners lose between 2 000 S and 4 480 S per year. Moreover, this is an intervention in existing pensions, which you have still excluded in your government program. Now a word about the planned forced retirements of officials: Compared to the previous provisions, the current draft has reinforced the provision for compulsory retirement. As a result, the persons concerned lose between 230 000 s of their living income in E 2a and 920 000 s of their living income in A 1/2. So this is a measure that is in fact nothing but a hidden planning reduction and disciplining program. The reduction in widow's and widow's pensions – reduction of the lower limits to zero, i.e. spraying between 60 per cent and zero – also reduces sensitively for many survivors with medium and small incomes. This too is a massive intervention in the life planning of those concerned. At the item "Separation of the reference of pedigrees" – even with the pedigrees you want to excavate – you have a bit inspired, because the protests of those concerned have reached your otherwise deaf ears. It was planned that after the sixth month, the reference of the pedigrees would be reduced by one third. Now you propose a 20 percent reduction. From our point of view, this is still too much. It was too much for ÖAAB until nine weeks ago. There Mr Spindelegger – I do not know if he is the "seventh" or the "fourth dwarf" from the left; this would have to be asked by Mr Klubobmann Khol –, ÖAAB Chairman of Lower Austria and Deputy Federal Chairman of the ÖAAB, spoke of deleting § 13c. – This was nothing but a deception maneuver, a reluctance maneuver, as we are used to by the representatives of the FPÖ and the ÖVP in this government. But now the ÖAAB formula is also broken: spoken – promised –. However, the aim of my group is, of course, the replacement of this paragraph, this provision, which is nothing but a money acquisition action on the back of Schwerkranker. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to speak plain text and not the word twists, the word creations... – They don't need to be excited. [[Abg. Neudeck: But your colleagues are not very excited!]] It's a dry fabric, I know. But take care of your group! If we do not watch out, then the current government, through a money-raising and over-driving action, will reform "sustainable confidence of young people and pensioners in the long-term financing of the public pension system" – you can read it in the explanations – then from the child money that has been decided today and costs the vulnerable families in the first year between 5 000 S and 10 000 S – they will get less! – "the largest anti-poverty programme in the Second Republic" – according to Schüssel – and then, out of a legal reform, the social security system will suddenly become a "strengthening of the main association", as was the case on 28 March. June said. Every action of this government is accompanied by beautiful speech, therefore again in clear text: Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, you have had a second chance, but you have done it thoroughly. You have had several months to restore the confidence of the younger generation in our pension scheme to regain the confidence of those who are now just ahead of retirement, in order to actually reduce the gap between officials and ASVG insured persons, what you have always claimed to do, and to prove to women that you are actually taking into account their employment biography by changing the pension disadvantages through the new regulation over the total service period. Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition! You didn't do anything about all of this. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Since February, concrete proposals for improvement from the Public Service Union have been with you, such as the abolition of the five-year period for a total period of 40 years covered by contributions, the extension of this scheme to younger births and further proposals for an improved discount scheme. These suggestions, too, were not taken into account by you. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, I have to say: You and your group and your coalition partner are not capable of learning. No matter if you act quickly or slowly, as in the case of child money, where you could not agree and throw yourself at each other's head, whether you have to present a law initiative for the first time or, as it always happens, to present for a time, just as now, or if you have to repair laws again – it is always clear that you are out of the way to learn at least so much from discussions, debates, reviews and expert hearings that the most serious damage can be avoided by the Austrian population. You have proved this with the almost unchanged reissue of the Pension Reform Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18123	Mr Reindl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18144	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the beginning of my speech, I tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Reindl, Dr. Feurstein and colleagues on request 438/A concerning the Pension Reform Act 2001 as amended by the Committee's report 699 of the Supplements. The President has agreed to the distribution of this request, so this request is in written form to all Members. I would like to point out the following important innovation: In the case of incapacity for work, the deduction scheme shall apply only in those cases in which the retirement procedure from 1. ==References====External links== [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Fink.]] High house! Empty pension funds and the fact that people are pleased to have a higher life expectancy make a pension reform law necessary. A pension reform is essential. If in 1980 a 60-year-old man or a 60-year-old woman had an average life expectancy of 18 and 23 years, this life expectancy was glad to have risen to 21 or 26 years in 2000. It is to be hoped that life expectancy will continue to rise. Experts believe that in 2030 men will spend on average 24 years and women on average 28 years in the pension. Therefore, our successors in this House will not come around for further reforms in the regulation of retirement to ensure the sustainability of pension systems. Considering that the Civil Service Law came from 1979, and comparing the remaining life expectancy from 1980 with the remaining life expectancy of 2000, it is noted that there is a difference of three years. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore also clear why there is an increase in the age limit for retirement by a declaration of one and a half years. This results in a uniform division: one and a half years longer in working life, and the rest one and a half years longer in retirement. Several studies that have been in place for a long time show that pension reform is absolutely necessary. An increasing number of active people are facing more and more pensioners. What if we didn't implement a pension reform? – This would not be responsible to the next generations, which would lead to a social reduction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This pension reform will not be overwhelming, as the Social Democrats often claim, but will be carried out in stages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The increase in the early retirement age, Mrs Silhavy, takes place in two monthly stages per quarter, starting from 1. ==References====External links== It will take effect on 1 October 2002. In this context, one must also mention that the statutory retirement age for men completed the 65th and for women the completed 60. He's a year old. My predecessor, Mrs Mertel, referred to the pension scheme. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Have you forgotten what you had in case of government participation?- Oh, my God! – In your draft, you, the Social Democrats, have provided for the increase in the early retirement age by two years, while this government finds its way out at one and a half years. Furthermore, you, the Social Democrats, would not have increased the pension contribution by 0.8 percent, Mrs Silhavy, like the new Federal Government, but by 1 percent. [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't believe any more!]] But then you would certainly not have spoken of a "social reduction without consideration", of "money procurement actions for budget recovery", of "integrating in life planning" or of a "break of trust protection" as you have done again today. Ladies and gentlemen! This pension reform will not punish anyone, but it will in principle ensure the provision of pensions, which must be in the interest of both current and future generations. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is the only way to ensure the confidence of young people and pensioners in the long-term financing of the public pension system also in the field of civil servants' pensions. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In turn, the Executive Group of the Social Democratic Trade Unions – the Gendarmerie section – has completely insecured and panicked the colleagues and colleagues of the entire security executive in Austria. In the meantime, it concerns the already famous § 13c of the Wage Law, namely the reduction of the reference in the case of longer sick. I'm a Gendarmerie official myself, and I've got 3rd place. In April of this year, a motion for a resolution was tabled in this House, in which Ms. Susanne Riess-Passer was asked to ensure that, by amending § 13c of the Staff Regulations for Officials, there can be no undue income reductions in the case of illness. This amendment was adopted unanimously, i.e. with the votes of the Socialists here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! The comrades are now uncertain staff representatives of the S & D trade unionists group in a leaflet dated 21 January. On 1 May 2001 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In this leaflet of the Executive Group of the Social Democratic Trade Unions – section Gendarmerie, the following is written under the heading "Protest action": It "is required by the Gendarmerie union to carry out immediate protest actions. The first trade union measure could be a protest march in Vienna or similar." This leaflet also cites an example of a reduction in the health status according to § 13c of salary law. It's literally here: "For this, a real example: Col. Ludwig H., 46 years old, Executive Officer/Vienna, Diagnostics: Cancer: monthly net income S 22.506.40, its net income since 1.4.2001: S 13.953,- (–39%), a loss of monthly S 8.553,- net." Ladies and gentlemen! This simply does not correspond to the facts. That's uncertainty, that's panic-making social-democratic trade unionists! The Social Democrats were insecure and panicked, Mr. Parnigoni, and Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer has acted for the benefit of the entire civil service! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you know what's on the liberal leaflets? On the liberal leaflets, Straster is the "death grave of the Gendarmerie"!]] Mr Parnigoni, I am already speaking to the Gendarmerie. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Strasser is the "dead grave of the Gendarmerie" – this is the freedom-free diction! And you're talking about uncertainty!]] From the seventh month of a service prevention due to illness or leisure accidents, the reference is now reduced to only 80 percent. Mr Parnigoni: shortened to 80 percent! So far, the figure was 66.6%. [[Abg. Parnigoni is about to leave the hall.]] – Mr Parnigoni, stay there! I'm coming to something completely, absolutely essential. The official will continue to pay 80 percent of his total income – I emphasize: the total income, including all additional fees, remunerations, payments and the like. – And now, Mr. Security Spokesman of the Social Democrats goes out. [[Abg. Parnigoni, who just wanted to leave the meeting room, turned around and heard standing between the back bank lines to the speaker.]] High house! Now I come to speak to the executive. Mr Parnigoni, especially in the case of safety executives, the additional fees are an essential component of income. That is why I would like to thank Mrs. Susanne Riess-Passersehr as an executive officer, on behalf of all my colleagues, including the Social Democratic colleagues, for the fact that the additional fees have also been included in this scheme and there will not be an unreasonable income reduction in the event of a longer period of illness.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18278	The request, which has just been presented in its core points, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation and is also distributed in the hall and printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18361	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18382	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! We originally did not agree to this amendment, and, apart from the amendments presented, we cannot give our assent to the resumption of this decision. This is because it is a matter of burden, of restrictions, and an overall concept is not recognizable. Of course, any major change and reform usually also has disadvantages for individual groups or certain persons, and if this can be justified objectively if the whole thing corresponds to a philosophy which is acceptable in the core, then one could really talk to the Greens about it. Only: In particular, we cannot see such a concept in the reform of Mrs Vice-Chancellor. Once again, this concerns the active part of the public service in all its facets, in which the pay and pay schedule has become more and more transparent and unfair by the fact that entire groups of occupations only derive more from any additional fees, and this is reflected in the area of pensions, in the area of pensions. That means to intervene and say here at some point: We raise the pension contribution there and doctors there a little bit about the years!, that doesn't help us any further! We will therefore no longer agree to such a piecework solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The whole pension right is in the field of tension between different principles. On the one hand, it is very clear about an insurance component: People work their working lives for a long time, pay contributions, and thus also legitimately hope for a security in old age. On the other hand, it must also be a solidarity component, because we know that the opportunities to achieve such deposits in the acquisition process, which then also allow secure care in old age, are not exactly the same. This is particularly true in connection with the employment of women. We also know from the field of public services that women's chances, in higher ranks, of coming to service classes, are far from equal, yes, that women in all professional groups – I am thinking of universities, science – are light-years away from complying with the principle of equality, which is in itself enshrined in the Constitution. In this respect, a fair pension model or a novelle, which represents at least one step in this direction, should also include an anti-discrimination component. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So: Insurance component, solidarity component and anti-discrimination component, in a certain balance. I already admit that this is difficult, but if I can't even recognize the principles of a novelle, then also an assessment is whether this is a step in the right direction or not, very, very difficult. We believe that even with the novelles that existed before, this anti-discrimination component was not taken into account, especially because, for example, everything that counteracts early retirement or here leads to certain sanctions more frequently burdened and affects women than men. That is to put it to the point that we would like to talk about the contours of a comprehensive, large pension reform, including the question of how it could succeed in harmonizing public service and other pension systems. We are particularly concerned about the security of old age for expanding the solidarity component, precisely because of the fact that it is no longer possible for pensioners to change the former dispositions of their lives or to correct a development that is already past. For example, the green basic insurance model also provides for an independent pension scheme for each person, for men and women, regardless of the previous employment, i.e. a very strong solidarity component. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We cannot recognize the guiding thread in this piece of novels, and we fear that this will increase the inconsistency of the entire system and reduce the possibility of a major reform. The more we safeguard group interests here, the more difficult it will be to find the necessary great consensus towards a truly viable, solidar, but also an insurance solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18470	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. The speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18491	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Two or three short preliminary remarks. Mrs Mertel, I do not want to approach you, but you have clearly spoken here today as an official and have not considered the officials of the public service as a whole. In this way, it is not possible to deal with the issue of further division of officials and contract staff, but we must strive to bring contract staff and officials together in the service law. That is a principle, and this principle, I totally rejected your speech, yes, on the contrary, you have opposed it. We can't go there. I also know that in previous years, in the SPÖ, a position different from that you represent today. I deeply regret that you will return to the old debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We have been indignant by you for 15 years. You've tried to beat us for 15 years!]] Yes, it is true, Mr President, that a different position was once taken in the SPÖ. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: This is not about the fact that the Constitutional Court repealed a law because there were concerns about the content of this law, but it was repealed for purely formal legal reasons. And today, after nine months, we can say that this law has essentially proved itself: with the pillars raising the retirement age by one and a half years by 2002, a new regulation of the survivors' pension – a second important pillar – and a third important pillar is the pension adjustment to be made in the future for officials and non-officials in the same way. This principle has also proved its worth, as have various other measures that we decided at the time. It's a round package. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] Mrs Petrovic, I cannot believe that you really agree to a reform package sometime, it may still be as complete as it is here. I can't imagine that. I've been happy to hear your words, but I just can't believe those words. On two points, however, we have had to note that changes are necessary; they have been partly explained. The first point is the continuation of the payment in the event of an illness or an accident. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we have found a very reasonable solution in this regard, namely a solution that likes contract staff and officials in about – not exactly, but in about – the same way. That is, the first six months of full redundancies, and subsequently a 20 percent reduction. This means a similar system for officials and non-officials. We have already decided on this in committee. The second point that we are now making with a second reading amendment is a very important point, and I would like to briefly explain it: It is about that for persons who have already applied for a retirement change before the 1. In October 2000, and also for persons who are seriously retired and in whom the procedure has already taken place before 1 October 2000. The old pension law, which was introduced by 30 October 2000, was introduced on 30 October 2000. In September 2000, it continued to apply. For the most part, these persons have not been able to expect new rules to come here, particularly in the area of deductions. I mean, this regulation is reasonable and good. I have already heard from various opposition politicians that they would like to agree. I would like you to take the second step and agree to this amendment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: After nine months it can be said that the pension reform was correct in its main features. It helps to ensure the financing of our pensions far into the future that there is also a certain equality between the different pension groups. We think we can fully agree to this law after it passed the probation test. In this sense, I would also ask that the amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18535	Next, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18556	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This reform of pensions, which is being discussed here today, is nothing but the safeguarding of the pension system and thus the guarantee of the contract of generations, for those who are already in retirement today, as for those who are in work today and who, of course, also have a right to an old age pension. One of the means of ensuring this long-term guarantee of the pension system is the moderate and gradual increase in the early retirement age by 18 months. Mrs Mertel! I have already asked the question several times – and significantly never received an answer from you – why you are so massively criticising the increase here for 18 months, while, on the other hand, the government agreement, which had already been negotiated between the SPÖ and the ÖVP, provided for a full increase of two years. Where, Mrs Mertel, has your indignation remained at that time? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I can give you the answer: That is why this agreement has not been reached!]] An increase of two years was obviously okay, but an increase of half a year less is a great scandal for you. – You will not be able to explain this logic not only to me, but also to the Austrians, with confidence,! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You want an answer, but don't listen!]] They will not be able to explain to the public any more... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This has not been achieved!]] Mrs Mertel, I know that this is unpleasant for you, but you will not be able to explain just as much why in your eyes the increase in the pension security contribution by 0.8 percent is a great scandal, while the increase you are planning would have been clearly in order by a full percent. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We have not signed this pamphlet, you already!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is unpleasant!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We have not signed it – you have!]] This is all black and white to read, and I would only ask for honesty in this debate to be honest when we talk about the need for measures to ensure the pension system. And that's where you have to say: Their proposal was 1 percent instead of 0.8%. – That’s a fact that you can’t deny even by so many intermediate calls! In contrast to you, what we have explicitly taken into account in this pension reform is the benefit for those who have long periods of insurance and who, of course, can retire at an earlier date. That was never planned for you either. We have said that for those who have worked hard for a very long time, we must also take due account of the retirement age, and that is what we are confessing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Also included in our model and not in yours is what has already been mentioned several times today, namely taking into account the particular situation of women. That is why we are also very proud that for the first time in this pension reform we have also included an accounting of child training periods for women to the extent of five years as pension-based. Mrs Petrovic! This is an essential step forward, an essential progress for women, to which we also confess ourselves. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: At what height?]] For the sake of completeness – because it is self-evident, but still it always sounds as if it were not – I add that, of course, all those who are sick and can no longer do their work or their profession, as before, can go into retirement without any reduction and without any additional deductions. This is a matter of course and continues to be fully preserved. I'm saying this because You always pretend you don't. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In addition, we have also ensured – in contrast to you and your programme, Mrs Mertel – that there is a guarantee of value with fixed amounts and thus an explicit benefit and improvement of the pensioners of small pensions. This too is a measure of social justice and social compensation which we believe is necessary. In addition, in this pension reform, we have also ensured that the regulations we have made apply equally to all occupational groups. And now I come to the section 13c which has already been mentioned several times; Mr Feurstein has already done this anyway. I would have liked to stop, Mrs Mertel, if we were already talking about justice, that you would have thought about the uneven situation between officials and contract staff. These are all employees of the public service who are entitled to one and the same scheme. What we are doing now is a merger in this area – or at least an approximate union – which is in line with the principle of justice. What we have with the contract staff is a reduction in the reference to 50 percent plus sickness benefit, to which there is a claim, but which, of course, does not result in more than 80 percent of the basic relationship, is the decisive thing. And if this is a reasonable arrangement for contract staff, it is also, of course, a reasonable arrangement for public service staff, even where one knows that contract staff can end the service relationship in the event of permanent illness after a year. This will never happen for an official. I believe that this discussion is only happening in this form because we have so different rules. It was necessary to change this system, and I am very grateful to Mr Reindl and all the others who have noted this, because we have had an imbalance here, especially in those areas of public service, where the salary is mainly based on allowances and additional fees, as is the case in the field of executives. This shows, however, that the problems, the imbalances that arise are based on the fact that we today have service, remuneration and pension schemes which make great differences between the different professional groups. That is why I believe that, in the sense of justice, it must be our common objective to bring about the harmonisation of these systems, to ensure that there are the same rules of play for all. There can only be a single difference in a pension scheme, namely the difference between those who have done physical hard work and those who have not had such a burden in their profession. For these people, special arrangements must also be made. This is justice, how we understand it and how we will implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18706	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18728	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, I would like to say again and again: The accusations that you make against us over and over again, which we are supposed to have agreed, are inexorable, because it should at least be known to you that a contract will not be valid until it has been signed. [[Abg. Neudeck: Have you agreed!]] [[Abg. Neudeck:... Because you haven't signed, you can't make a child's move!]] This treaty has not been signed, unlike the coalition agreement you signed, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! For this you also have the responsibility to bear on your own. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] But you know everything, because you're even an all-knower, as you hear in your calls. The quality of your calls may judge for themselves the people who read the protocol. [[Abg. Neudeck: They are very good, I have to say – better than your speeches!]] Ladies and gentlemen and Mrs Vice-Chancellor! Please also allow me this comment: It's more than cynicism when you're talking about harmonisation. What are you doing? They abolish early retirement in the ASVG due to reduced employability. You raise the retirement age at early retirement. [[Abg. Neudeck: I finished a 10-minute speech from you in a sentence!]] They increase the fees for early retirement from 2 to 3 percent. You reduce the widow's board to zero in the extreme case. They deteriorate access to disability pension and decide on a new pension adjustment scheme that does not cover the inflation rate that you have artificially driven up with your measures. And then you're talking about harmonisation by saying: But the officials are much better. – So what is the result? You also have to go down to the officials. One has worsened it in one area, so one also worsens it in the other. How cynical the whole thing is, I will prove to you with a passage from this template: "For officials, no reduction in the number of long-term infirmity was foreseen until the in-force step of the Pension Reform Act 2000. For reasons of fair equal treatment" – Mrs. Vice Chancellor, "fair equal treatment"; this cynicism really has to be given! – "The different groups of employees with regard to the further payment of references and in the light of the current figures on the failure of the Federal Government in 2000, according to which an official is missing on average 14.4 days, but an employee only 11.4 days, is required to provide for a moderate reduction in the monthly relationship in the event of long-term absence due to illness or accidents." Mrs. Vice chancellor! If people get less money in the event of a long illness, do you think they'll get healthier then? Don't you feel what a cynicism is behind it? Is that really funny, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, or are you reading your own government proposals that you decide to do? They obviously don't know what's inside! This is white cynicism, which you show toward sick people! You're supposed to generate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You can save your calls. You don't get any better, you'll get even worse over time, if that's possible at all. Ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't believe you any more that you're making yourself strong for the "little man", as you've always said. In the meantime, you have decided to take away 53 billion schilling in four years from the people who are in retirement or in retirement. 53 billion! 43 billion people have been taken away by measures such as increases in fees and the introduction of ambulance fees – we have already discussed this today. [[Abg. May. Saviour: You have brought them 2,000 billion schilling debts!]] And today you've celebrated for 9 billion that you're distributing, and not even socially distributing just how we've been able to show you today. And here you want to talk about harmonisation, of the equal treatment of workers' groups and groups of workers? You muster up all employees – whether contract staff, officials, employees, workers; you don't care! They make a one-sided policy that meets every employee in that country, every employee, every pensioner, every pensioner. This is a policy that will always be fought by us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18845	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18867	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the statements made by my predecessor, I think a few things should be said. Mrs Colleague, there are, of course, some principles in this pension reform and in this whole novelle: The top principle – that of solidarity – is that today there are so many... – Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Silhavy: Take something! "Solidarian" all take something!]] Listen to me! You are so sharp that you are not even able to listen. Pull your tongue, listen to me, and argue about it! May I ask you to do this? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Nive down!]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Colleague! It is about the fact that today there are so many people in working life who, if we continued this SPÖ policy, would not get a pension. And that is the question of solidarity. Whether we are committed to the fact that there is also a pension for those people who are working today, that is the question of solidarity, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Silhavy: But...!]] Not "but"! I know the SPÖ policy on this question long enough! [[Abg. Silhavy: This is inconspicuous, Mr. Colleague! Unscrupulous!]] I remind you of the Vranitzky letter. Luft and Trug were this politics! And we must reject this policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Colleague! Don't tell me! We all know very well: If we were to continue with this policy, this pension system would not have been eligible for funding in the long term. And where is your solidarity with those who work today and pay contributions, Mrs Colleague?- Oh, my God! We really don't need to talk about that at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The time has passed, Mrs Colleague, on this question, too. – You’re talking about quality! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You don't need to tell us about quality at all about the laws we discuss here!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We are at least capable of acting on this question, a property that will give you a long time...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18978	Ladies and gentlemen! Give the speaker a fair chance to explain his arguments! Everyone has the opportunity to report with their own speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18994	Mrs Silhavy! Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I'm actually talking about something completely different. I am concerned that we should be very careful about the motivation of our officials in the public service – I am talking about the motivation of contract officials and officials – because there are completely new challenges to these officials. I am thinking now of the many teachers, and I am thinking of the 30,000 executive officials in Austria who are faced with completely new challenges. In this context, I mention only two words: the increase in drug use and drug abuse in Austria and the ever-increasing consolidation of the SPÖ with those who take on illegal drugs. It even calls for illegal drugs to be legalized. Furthermore, there is a solidarity with the chaots in Salzburg. We must fucking be careful that we motivate our executive officials, the teachers and educators accordingly, so that they want to go along with them at all. This motivation is extremely important and necessary for officials to carry out their duties on behalf of the State. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's the bottom drawer! The bottom drawer!]] Mrs. Colleague! I am therefore glad that § 13c has been reasonably innovative. I'm very grateful to our clubman Khol because I know he's been working for it. Thank you many times on behalf of the 30,000 executive officials of Austria! I would also like to thank Mr Westenthal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And I would like to thank Mrs Vice-Chancellor on this question. We know, ladies and gentlemen, where, in case of doubt, the heart of the executive has to be beat. The support he receives from you, Mrs Silhavy, and the SPÖ Group, is coming to an end. Unfortunately, God's SPÖ has developed into a party that cannot possibly be the party of executive officials.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19044	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19066	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Miedl, the SPÖ always stands for justice and solidarity, and we are not allowed to say or rejoice that we have something to do with some violent activists! I would like to maintain this in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That's what you say inside...!]] – It won't be better with your calls! I would like to make a few comments on the statements made by my previous speakers – most of them the arguments have already been exchanged –: Mr. Feurstein! With all due respect, we have already pointed out in the Committee what point 3 in Article 3 Z 37 § 62j means to us. I am glad that at least at second reading this amendment has been tabled, and we will, for reasons of fact, because we have already argued in advance, agree to this, but only this point. Mr Miedl and Mr Reindl! Although it is all to be read in the stenographic protocols, one forgets a lot after a few months: From this point of view, I have thought of what § 13c means in general, but above all what it means for the Members of the Executive. I asked you: Take away from this provision! This is about the case of long and severe diseases, which in fact only a few are affected – thank God, I say. That means it's not a budget question either, so we could have saved this. – No, it was decided! As soon as it was decided, Mr Miedl, Mrs Vice-Chancellor was confronted at Question Time with regard to this § 13c: For God's sake, we are now hurting a few colleagues, we have to fix that! So have first You are beyond any discussion and you are hurting the person concerned, and then you announce: We need to fix this, we need to improve it! I have predicted here – and, Mr Reindl, this is easy to expect – that in individual cases, colleagues may be affected by salary losses of up to 40 percent! – Now it is repaired, everything is celebrated. Although we no longer have the old legal status, those concerned are still faced with 20 percent reduction. They want to decide, because this would be so good. I can also recall the statements made by Mrs Vice-Chancellor in the committee, where she told us that we need equality with private workers, because that is fair. I invite everyone to look at what the pay-out of a private employee with ten years of service and what the pay-for-money of an official with ten years of service looks like after a longer, six-month illness! There will then be a very rapid insistence that the private person is better placed than the official with your regulations, which you are supposed to do here now. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: That's not right!]] That is right, Mr Feurstein, let us look at this together. This cannot be a corresponding new access – or is the "new governance"? – to say, there is a group that needs to be adapted to justice in the half – so it is formulated – to another group by levelling down. I think that is a way that neither the public staff nor other professional groups in Austria deserve. Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to make two amendments to the 2001 Pension Reform Act (699 of the Supplements): [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues of the executive! Both applications concern primarily the executive. On the one hand, it is about the replacementless deletion of the § 13c salary law, the other takes into account – and this has also resulted in a scientific study – that the colleagues of the executive from 57 onwards. Years of life are difficult to perform executive foreign service. I would ask you to give your consent to these requests in the interests of the Members concerned. Above all, I must mention it again, these are also unanimous decisions of the Public Service Trade Union; I do not need to say anything about majority relations in this union here. I would like to invite you and ask you to give your consent to these requests in the interests of justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19189	The two applications which have just been submitted are sufficiently supported, and are sufficiently relevant to the matter of negotiation, with the result that the debate or later the vote will be taken. The next speaker is Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19214	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that each of us is aware that changes in the early retirement age were absolutely necessary. One may not remember today, but there have been agreements in this respect between SPÖ and ÖVP, and these agreements have been accepted by ÖVP and FPÖ. If in a few minutes the Pension Reform Act 2001 for the public service, says: for the officials, it is decided, then certainly not all officials will cheer us up and have joy with it, but one is clear and also aware of the officials to a great extent: Without such measures – and I mean increasing the early retirement age by 1.5 years – our good pension system and the relatively high pension calculation would certainly no longer be financed. Nor do we want to: a generation problem, and generation problems would be pre-programmed if there were no adjustment in the pension area. So if you want to keep good, you have to make timely adjustments and changes, and that with an eye. That, I think, has happened. However, I would like to refer to the present amendment tabled by the Coalition Parties, which concerns § 13c of the Civil Service Income Act, which regulates the rights of reference in the event of service prevention by sickness or accident by public servants. In the future, in the event of more than six months of illness or accident, there will be a repayment of the reference to an extent of 80 percent of the salary, taking into account and taking into account the additional fees. I would like to say one thing: This was a very important and social decision which was taken here, because the reference of the public servant is based on ancillary fees. This redefinition of § 13c is a fair and human solution. The reference of an official is based on additional fees, which I have already mentioned, and the loss of these additional fees in case of illness for more than 30 days and a further reduction in the reference period after six months by one third of the reference, as the law in force so far, would, of course, be a huge hardship for young officials. Therefore, a year ago, on the part of the ÖAAB, we took a very critical view of this bill with reference to § 13c and, before the law came into force, together with Mr Reindl, put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject, which is now before the decision-making process. I would like to thank all those who have negotiated and brought this amendment in this direction. It's the right way. It is a law with hearts and brains and, above all, let those at the beginning of their employment hope to look to a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19268	In order to rule out questions or uncertainties from the outset: Since there are a number of short-term amendments or a request for a separate vote, and because of the complexity, a short-term completion of the Croquis is not possible, the vote will be taken after the next item on the agenda. That's why it's not ringing in now. There are now two speakers on the list. The next speaker is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19298	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to recall why we are discussing this matter today: this is because the Constitutional Court has abolished its original decision on formal errors. And the Constitutional Court has found that this was a Husch-Puff action, a Husch-Puff action, which is by the way not the first and only of this blue-black coalition. That is why we have to deal with it again today. Even if this federal government is in a crisis, especially with all its hush-fush actions and templates, you can still say, I think, that this crisis is also an opportunity. But, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, you do not benefit from this opportunity, and you are not in a position to eliminate the formal, but also, above all, the errors which have already been addressed to previous speakers in my group. We Socialists have already raised these concerns when the first decision on this pension scheme was taken. – But you of ÖVP and the liberals have tried to wipe all that from the table. Like many others, we Socialists have drawn attention to the constitutionally questionable regulation. – However, you of ÖVP and the liberals simply and simply negated this. They have not taken advantage of the opportunity you had today to formulate a law that is both in terms of content and constitutionality. This is not only a question of formal errors, but also, above all, of errors in content. And that's exactly what people feel, namely, all the errors in the content of this template, because: This leads to pension cuts, leads to massive deterioration in widow's pensions and so on. Today, you would have had the opportunity to eliminate all these errors that have a lasting impact on the older generation, but do not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and of the liberals, you still have this opportunity, we give it to you, and we are submitting an amendment which I would like to inform you now, an amendment with the aim of withdrawing the sudden increase in the retirement age, the withdrawal of these interventions in the pension rights of the railways, especially the withdrawal of the increase in the pension contribution. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you know what you're talking about?]] Our request is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am bringing this request in. This may sound very formal, but it is very concrete to eliminate social injustices that you have created. This, too, your recent decision-making of this proposal, is more than a questionable one, we will challenge Social Democrats at the Constitutional Court. We are concerned with the content, and we are against this your Ho-ruck action as regards the sudden increase of the retirement age. But above all, it is also about this inaccurateness, which is the result of the leftover pension, that women are particularly affected by all these massive cuts in survivors' pensions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am confident that we will be entitled to this recent challenge at the Constitutional Court of Justice – and this is also true if I look at, for example, only the decision relating to the civil service regime, where the Constitutional Court has fully shared all our concerns that we have already expressed to you. – However, you simply did not want to take note of the ÖVP and the liberals at the time. The concerns of social democracy, opposition and the population will no longer be able to wipe you out of the table by ÖVP and the liberals in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19403	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported, is sufficiently relevant to the matter of negotiation and therefore to the negotiation or voting. The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19427	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! In fact, in the post-President Prinzhorn, one must be quite grateful for having given us the opportunity to discuss this once again in the National Council due to his then mis-voice. However, after a correction by the Constitutional Court, we have the opportunity to discuss it again. The only point where I have to disagree with my colleague Bures: The government has used this opportunity in a very tiny part, which is what the transitional provisions are about, where it has now been noted that the provisions to be corrected here are clearly not only, as the Constitutional Court of Justice has claimed, purely formal, but also unconstitutional. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and the Free! You already admit that about six months ago, you passed a law that was unconstitutional, which was repealed not only for formal errors but also for reasons of content. And this is still to be found here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A comment, Mr Kößl: With "heart and brain" this law is made, you mean. In the first part of the "Hirn" we have just dealt with: It was not available, because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you would not have to find out for yourself, on the basis of formal and now, for reasons of substance, unconstitutionality. Where was the brain? And what the "heart" is about, we're still talking about it. A provision such as the sick people argue that, on average, officials are in the state of illness for three to four days, that is, more than 14 days in contrast to 11 days in the case of workers and employees, and then derive from this difference between private and public health services, that those who are seriously ill should be punished, that has a lot of things for themselves – however, cynicism, but less heartily, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! That really speaks volumes! The short-term health status, which lies for a few days to 14 days or three weeks, is a chapter – and the difference between the public service and the private sector is interesting: In all European countries, scientists have teased to explore and highlight this difference, because it is not as easy to explain as it is done by you by saying: Yeah, yeah, because they can afford it. – It is not as simple as you try to present it! But to put this difference between short-term and long-term illness in analogy and say: Those who are sick for more than half a year must be punished!, this is already a strong piece! The last point, ladies and gentlemen: Generational contract and generational problem; we are also allowed to comment on this. They have often talked about the need for these rules in the interests of the generation treaty and in order to avoid generation problems. - I'm allowed to hold on here: A correction of the pension system, harmonisation of pension systems is certainly important and necessary, but it also requires that, in the case of service law, not only for officials and contract staff, but also for the sake of harmonisation, a somewhat uniform right of service is created as a prerequisite for harmonisation in the pension sector. However, you have remained guilty of ÖVP and the liberals to date. Such harmonisation can not only cover legal provisions, but must also aim to achieve a level playing field. There have already been efforts in the previous coalition, which have obviously failed somewhere in the confusion and confusion of the trade union public service, and therefore: If you were to take a step in this regard, namely one in the direction of harmonisation, this would still allow us to harmonise the right of retirement of officials in a timely manner. What we now have is not a pension adjustment as a result of generation-righteousness, but this pension adjustment, which you are now re-adopting from the coalition parties, is a result of budgetary problems. Please keep this apart! Also a very short comment: They will create more problems in the public service, in the field of civil servants' pensions, the more you privatize, because the less there are active staff who can even deliver pension contributions. In other words, you always create the conditions for the next reason for a "pension reform" because of the fact that there are fewer and less officials. And: So simple, Mr Trattner, reality is not what it may sometimes look like by the party glasses of a liberal representative.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19527	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. As already announced, the vote will be postponed at a later date, and we will carry it out after the vote on points 7 and 8 of the agenda. 7. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (666 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which an IAF-Service GmbH is established and the Federal Social Office Act, the Insolvency Pension Insurance Act, the Labour and Social Courts Act, the bankruptcy and the Federal Financial Act 2001 are amended (737 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (484 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Patent Law (736 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19578	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. Mr Dietachmayr was the first to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19605	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This planned law is once again such a typical case: First one sends out a draft, then a government template starts – so, and that's what it's all about! In the Committee we discussed that there would certainly be opportunities to find a common way that our group's agreement would be possible to do so. The goal is – once again! – Extraordinary and privatisation. The objective is obviously to "disburse" the entire staff costs in the area of the recognition of the insolvency fee and the management of the IA fund. This objective could also be achieved while maintaining the current form of organisation by means of reimbursement by the insolvency compensation fund. The initial planned involvement of the Fund in society probably failed due to the expected over-indebtedness of the Fund due to the unconstitutional withdrawal of 5.8 billion schilling in favour of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! I tell you what conditions we could give our agreement: then, if some significant points were taken into account; if, for example, it would be clear that this new law would extend the customer orientation, increase employee orientation to ensure the quality of the company and the organisation if no cost increase or transfer to third parties would take place in the course of this exclusion, and above all no reduction in performance would be expected as a preparation or as a consequence of this exclusion. Now to finance. Start-up and restructuring costs and their take-over would have to be carried out by the Federal Government, a transfer of personnel costs by the Federal Government and, above all, the performance of an administrative cost contribution from the Federal Government to the IAF to cover the administrative burden in order to ensure that the contributions are available exclusively to cover claims within the meaning of the Insolvency Remuneration Act. This is all the more justified when, already in 2000 2 billion schillings and in 2001 3.7 billion schillings have been cut off for budget adjustment from the IAF, while at the same time reducing performance, in particular reductions in the performance of late-rates to workers, have been made. Regional accessibility – and later my colleague Dobnigg will say something – should also be ensured. What the social structure and its objectives are: It should also be ensured that no corporate objectives are pursued which adversely affect the rapid settlement of an ISG procedure; and that no subsidiaries can be established, even if they mean profit-oriented business areas can be built up. Who then carries the risk if losses are also incurred instead of profits? - So a very unsafe thing! It is necessary to ensure that the target group of the IAG, the employees, and the service providers, the employers, are also involved in corporate policy. Therefore, our demand: The involvement of workers' representatives, i.e. the Chamber of Workers and the Trade Union Confederation, as well as the Chamber of Commerce in the Supervisory Board! An employee orientation would also be necessary, and it would in all cases be necessary to ensure that a reasonable level of performance would be ensured. The following problem could be addressed in this context: According to the law of the OGH, the insolvency compensation fund does not pay any money for those claims for which a seller is liable in accordance with § 6 AVRAG. This, ladies and gentlemen, leads to enormous difficulties in practice, because the seller is usually only available for payment by using massive means, namely action or execution. Even if paid without a claim, this often takes a very long time, and the sufferers are the workers affected by insolvency. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This supplement makes it clear that the transfer of claims also covers all the claims of workers to third parties, in particular liability of corporate, operational and acquirers – a provision that would benefit all the workers concerned, because they would not have to apply for the right to rule themselves, but rather the fund that certainly has more resources and possibilities to obtain the money. I would therefore recommend that you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19707	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is sufficiently relevant to the matter of negotiation and therefore also to the negotiation or voting. The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19731	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the reason for a law establishing an IAF-Service GmbH? – The reason is simple: For years there have been doubts about the efficiency, the efficiency of the implementation of the insolvency-payment law, as I mean, legitimate doubts. On the one hand, this is because there is a double track in the administrative structure, i.e. there is the competence of two ministries, and on the other hand there is no uniform and networked data system, i.e. the corresponding data collection and electronic exchange of information. A large number of similar cases of business may, in any case, appear to require electronic processing for efficiency reasons. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a declared objective of this Federal Government to reform the administration, save on administration, find savings potential, and put in place appropriate measures here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But the SPÖ would not be the SPÖ, it would not be destructive. For one and a half years, she is now in opposition, and after these one and a half years she still believes that as a no-sager party in the population, she can rise in the electorate. The amendment tabled by my colleague Mr Dietachmayr and the reasons why I should like to lose a few words on the comments made by my previous speaker. He mentions, for example, 5.8 billion schillings that have been sent to the budget. – I ask you: What is he talking about? – At least not by Minister of Finance Grasser. It is true that the SPÖ, with its socialist finance minister, has never been afraid of removing funds to bring them into the budget and to put the corresponding holes there. Mr Dietachmayr also speaks of the lack of customer orientation, and he says that there would also be no regional accessibility. – You, ladies and gentlemen of the red No Sager Party, would have to admit: During our time, we have not been able to carry out a reasonable reform here and make savings. – Instead of misinformation and destructive behaviour, I think it would be good for you to let silence at least before you come up with such arguments. They would have had the opportunity to make savings in this area, but they have failed. Back to the government template. Constitutional conformity is, in any case, provided. Liability – and this is the decisive – remains in the fund. On the other hand, when implementing the amendment tabled by Mr Dietachmayr, who concerns § 11, the following would happen: § 11 deals with the transitional phase. Consequently, liability to third parties would be transferred to this newly-founded IAF-Service GmbH, and it may not be possible, in the sense of the so-called employee representatives, to transfer the liability to this GmbH. What is going to happen because of this change in the law? . In particular, a faster settlement will take place, i.e. the worker concerned will come to his money faster in the future. The aim is to reduce the processing time to a maximum of four months instead of the six months previously used. This new law will also provide for the possibility of adapting staff needs accordingly. The indicated reduction in location in the sense of accessibility is not a matter, if you know that only about 5 percent of the workers concerned – that is, employees working in insolvent establishments – visit one of these sites themselves. And if you base the bill on the total number of employees, you see that it is – thank God – less than 0.1 percent. In the near future, the Patent Law. This government template is a first step towards liberalisation with two main points. It is this to understand an EU directive and it concerns freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. In the EU, there is no uniform profession in this area, although the Commission has long promised to adopt such directives. There are patent lawyers only in Austria and Germany. We see the law as a protection for the clients, but it is important to ensure that there is no discrimination on the part of the Austrians. I would like to point out that in Germany high school graduates can become patent lawyers, but not in Austria. As a positive example, I also appreciate that patent attorneys can now be set up.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19806	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19828	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The presentation of the Patent Law will also give my group the consent. You don't need to add much more. However: The real point to be discussed here is, of course, another. And I can't see how this breakdown – and it's this one – could result in such serious efficiency gains or savings. If the evidence were given, you could indeed not have that much against it. First of all, it must be noted that these are essentially sovereign activities to be concerned with in this area, and that they are useful only in exceptional cases and can be distributed. I do not want to address the issue of constitutional conformity. They say it'll hold. I do not know how much I should trust your prognosis if I think of other such prognosis. But be it! The question remains: Will it win as much as it promises? I would just like to turn to this question now. My impression is that, essentially, only officials are being reworked. There are hardly any incentive effects that hope that the new GmbH will be able to do the work as much cheaper as the current system costs. It's hard to see. But perhaps the Minister will give us more information about this, especially since a corresponding business consulting firm has been commissioned. In any case, I have not yet been convinced by the argument in committee. But you have an opportunity to do so, Minister. For example, the obligation to recover, which exists in the interdependence between Fund and GmbH, actually takes any incentive in relation to your project. And that it is not the case that I can imagine this alone is evidenced by the fact that the Court of Auditors' opinion has also failed. And I have not really been able to get the impression in the committee that you wanted to disprove it plausibly – or could too; You can choose which word you prefer. Let us come to the final assessment of the Court of Auditors on this issue. It says that in the sum of this organization it is more likely to be expected to be additional costs. – I repeat: more costs! Well, where's the success of this exercise now? There you can be excited. I think one must hold on to who has actually benefited from all these processes so far. First of all, this is the business consulting firm that has received contracts for this purpose – by the way, by the way, correctly with a call for tender; that is what I am already adding. I do not object to the fact that public institutions are being examined by business consultancy companies in such a way as to improve the organisation of business advice. But the success of these efforts seems to me to be rather small. What seems to me to be particularly interesting is the question why, at regular intervals, certain - and as it turns out, more and more of the same - lawyers' offices are getting orders from ministries in order to finally formulate legislative drafts. This is true of me quite slowly, because I can't imagine that after the change of government, the officials in the ministries, at least the numerous and not too badly-honored employees in the cabinets, have become so much more or less incompetent overnight! I can't really imagine that. [[Abg. Oeligers: Me neither!]] I think it is worrying when the same law offices come to the train again and again! For example, on the issue of the AMS distribution and also on the question of the ASVG-Novelle, it is in turn the same law firm. This must, in principle, not yet be objectionable in individual cases, even though this would in itself be our job. But I have to ask you, Minister: How do you explain this in this density? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] That was exactly differentiated and not flat-rate. But if you get smarter, I'll be glad. The urgent request was very successful, but obviously you did not see the "ZiB", and the Westenthaler was in the heating cellar too long and could not intervene today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Three to zero for the government!]] In any case, the same company can be found in the AMS distribution, in the ASVG-Novelle and also in today's presentation. I think that needs an explanation. Please, Mr. Minister, explain yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19894	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19915	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In my speech, I will briefly address both templates: first, the IAF Service GmbH Act and then the Patent Lawyers Act. First of all: For Austrian social policy, the Insolvency Tax Insurance Act was certainly an important milestone in 1977. By this federal law, workers have been receiving the so-called insolvency allowance in bankruptcy for 24 years now. Most of the funds, as you all know, come from the proportion of unemployment insurance contributions to be paid by the employer. The insolvency cash fund is currently represented by the Federal Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs. The administration, on the other hand, is currently being carried out by the Federal Office for Social Security and the Disabled, which is subordinated to the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations. The revenue last year amounted to 5.26 billion, the disbursements amounted to 2.93 billion schillings. Over the past 13 years alone, 32 billion schilling has been paid to the employees. High house! Although the insolvency fund has proved itself to be successful, there are now points worthy of improvement, due to – I believe, this has already been clear from the previous sentences – the competence of two ministries, due to the associated dual trackiness, due to the resulting structural organizational problems, due to the associated rigid and often long decision-making structures, by the lack of an efficient, networked data collection and information system, and by the therefore often long waiting times for workers to pay the insolvency fee. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If all of this is no reason to deal with it and make the system more efficient, I do not know what we should do at the end of the day. As part of the redesign of the administration – but I would like to note that the performance remains unchanged! – namely the exclusion of the administration from the insolvency fund, the broken supervisory structures are also harmonised by the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the one hand and the Ministry of Social Affairs on the other, the use of broken synergies potential and, last but not least, a discharge of the federal budget. Of course, the question of constitutional admissibility of exclusion is very important – and this has been pointed out. A special focus has therefore been placed on the constitutionality of five specific areas, namely the distribution of competence, the principle of equality, the principle of efficiency, the exclusion of only one part and, of course, the power of management. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say something to the procedure because this question has also been raised by Mr Dietachmayr. In particular, Mr Dietachmayr, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, has an amendment to § 11 para. 1, which deals with the claims against third parties involved, with the reference – or perhaps better say the impression – that the SPÖ would also agree with the IAF-Service-GmbH-Law when the government parties agreed to do so. The application was rejected by the Economic Committee. However, ÖVP and FPÖ were in principle prepared to discuss with Mr Dietachmayr and other colleagues to be called by him. This was made impossible, however, since on Monday the SPÖ sent a two-sided demand catalogue, which in principle called into question the present law. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] At the same time – my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, please listen very carefully now! – in the context of the transfer of the paper, the transferring SPÖ man – I suppose he was a club secretary – immediately reported that he or the SPÖ assumed that the government parties could not agree to these SPÖ demands anyway and that if we sat down together, that would be only empty kilometers anyway. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is interesting!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think there's been a lack of discussion. The SPÖ has again shown its true face, namely that it is not about improving this law, but that it wants to operate total opposition, as it does – innovation-restraining, structural-conservative and with full steam always in the past. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, a few remarks to the Patent Law. This law takes essential steps towards liberalisation, and it also takes into account EU requirements. We've done a lot of points. A seven-year practice in industrial law protection is equated with a five-year practice as patent attorney. In future, a patent lawyer will be allowed to enter into a service relationship whose subject matter includes the activity of a patent lawyer. In future, patent lawyers can also exercise their profession in the form of companies. The Austrian residence is not necessarily necessary. And new areas have been included in the qualification examination of patent lawyers. I believe that we have taken account of the European Union's liberalisation intensities, namely the intention to facilitate access for patent lawyers, and this will certainly also provide important impetus for the Austrian economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19960	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19981	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Against the intention to set up an IAF-Service GmbH within the scope of the insolvency-debt money fund, there is nothing in principle to object to either of us. There are, however, a number of key points in this law to be adopted today, which, for those concerned in particular, lead to deterioration. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: What "worships"?]] That is why we cannot agree to this proposal. Unfortunately, it was not possible to convince you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, with factual and supported arguments and yet bring about some changes. Not only we from SPÖ, but also experts, about last Friday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and especially the Court of Auditors - we have already heard from Mr Kogler - have made very critical comments on this. We have, together, tried to remove the mentioned deteriorations in order to prevent the disadvantages for colleagues who are employees. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Which one?]] In its statement, the Court of Auditors first notes that the above-mentioned personnel cost savings of about 7 million ye are not based on a cost reduction, but rather on a shift in the burden from the federal government to the fund. From the point of view of the Court of Auditors, the planned reorganisation is expected to be more cost-effective compared to the current structure, which we have already heard. In this context, the Court of Auditors also points out that, in preparation for the present exclusion, three works contracts have already been awarded to the extent of saying and writing 5.6 million schilling. According to the Court of Auditors, the requirements of § 14 BHG are not met. The Court of Auditors' final statement states: The explanations on the draft are not convincing to state that the planned exclusion is the best measure to increase effectiveness and efficiency in the area of insolvency compensation. – These criticisms identified by the Court of Auditors are largely limited to the financial sector. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists, however, see first and foremost the people, the workers, and for these unfortunately again, as in the past unfortunately more and more often, serious deterioration occurs. Well-functioning and well-interpreted locations are closed. There is a breakdown at the expense and expense of the workers already affected. The fact that the salaries are to be paid out of the fund in the future is that this fund – which should serve exclusively to cover the claims of the persons concerned – is once removed. This danger exists, and the concern is more than legitimate, since in 2000 already 2 billion schillings and in 2001 3.7 billion schillings were or will be transferred from the IAF for budget recovery while at the same time reducing benefits, in particular reductions in benefits for workers. At the expense of those people who already have enough problems and difficulties due to the loss of the workplace, the reality, unfortunately, looks like reality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats call for the maintenance of the Leoben, Wiener Neustadt, Bregenz and all the current locations as well as for a change in the jurisdiction of the districts of Gmunden and Vöcklabruck from Ried to Linz. As a Member of the Leoben District, I am completely incomprehensible that this location is also being closed. [[Abg. Head: Oh, that's it! That's why the wind blows!]] But what are the arguments for site maintenance? First: The Leoben site was mentioned very positively by the consultant BSL as regards the relationship between the number of employees and the end of the job. Secondly, The explosion of the Leoben District Court, for which the current IESG body Leoben is responsible, is the largest of Austria with 17 district courts. Thirdly, All agents relating to the performance of the ISG and the performance of the tasks for the IAF can be carried out directly on-site at the national court of Leoben, the financial office, the AMS, the District Headquarters and the Insolvency Association. Fourth: These advantages are lost by combining them with the ISG-Stelle Graz. Fifth, you open a bottle One speaks – and I am of your opinion, Mr Hofmann – of the necessary improvement in the IT sector. I welcome this, and we are also in favour of it, because, by means of a corresponding computer, the possibility of processing data from both bodies and transmitting data from one place to another, helping each other as necessary to achieve such a faster settlement, so that not, as planned, the staff from A to B will have to take long journeys, especially the workers concerned. In the case of Leoben, when I learned of the planned closure of this IESG body, I took the initiative and invited colleagues from FPÖ National Councillor Udo Grollitsch and ÖVP Federal Councillor Hannes Missethon to a debate with the employees. We three agreed that the IESG site of Leoben must be maintained on the basis of my above mentioned arguments. In addition, customer proximity and customer service play a major role – and this is especially true of the other locations. These arguments were also fully approved by Mr Wallner of the AK-Vienna at the hearing last Friday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Both mandates, both Udo Grollitsch – unfortunately he is not present again today, but he will be obliged to do so ; [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Here I am!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: He's always here!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Although no pre-load has come today!]] Sorry, Udo, match! – as well as Hannes Missethon, promised to be introduced to the ministries in order to prevent such a closure. ==References====External links== March in the district edition of the "Small Newspaper": "The concern is unfounded from my point of view." In the article it says – I quote –: "On the outside in Leoben, due to restructurings in the future, a lot of new tasks are to be done, which will probably even lead to a resumption of qualified staff and not a reduction, Grollitsch is convinced. "The concern for the outside office is unfounded from my point of view," says the Freeman." - Quote. It's come as we see today, but it's different. Here you can see the dual nature: these statements on the ground and then the opposite actions here in Parliament. What did you promise from the government parties to the electorate before the last National Council election! You have broken everything, as you have seen in the last few days and weeks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope there's still a leak.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20097	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20118	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Maybe I'll start by saying, Purpose pessimism, micro-spirits, the ever-nominating spirit and "what can't be, that can't be!" – This is what I have to listen to from your side as a “sach-based knowledge”! First of all, we want to note that the insolvency fee, a accompanying appearance of economic negative influences, is the legal right to transferable and therefore still open claims for insolvent companies. - We probably agree on this. The fact that this is human capital, which is clearly a social achievement as a commitment to safeguarding service demands, has already been noted by Mr Puttinger. The Insolvency Insurance Act dates back to 1977. I have no problem at all, if we are talking here about a so-called insolvency-debt-Fonds Service GmbH, in short IAF-Service GmbH, because this is actually supposed to make the previously mentioned achievement more efficient. That's so simple! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but it doesn't work!]] The main objective is to achieve a saving potential in the administration. The desire to remove the insolvency default funds and achieve market-oriented efficiency and service-oriented design is only right and affordable. [[Abg. Oillinger: And where is the market?]] The government expects this distribution of a... [[Abg. May. Kogler: What market, colleague?]] Please? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which market? How many providers are there in this market?]] I don't need God to know how many providers! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] It is quite simply a breakdown from a ministerial administration in order to achieve a significant reduction in the period from the application to the moderate recognition of the claim. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder:... a market?]] We all know – or if you don't know – that I can tell you – that this period is currently on average six to six and a half months. We're going to cut this to half, and I think that's achievable. The whole system is so complicated here, but it is quite simple! So that you can understand, I'll explain it again: The fund is currently set up in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, but the implementation of the insolvency allowance is currently being carried out in the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations. And only this execution do we want to be part of and transferred to an IAF-Service GmbH. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, we understand!]] Who's in charge? – Of course the fund continues! It does not change the right of performance, quite the contrary: It may, if you want to see this, be free to sell additional benefits to a GmbH – such as insurances or interest-fixing services. I would like to stress once again: The claims against the Fund as a public law body remain unchanged, and it logically holds the Federation responsible for this! Only the administrative procedure – that is so simple, Mr. Colleague! – we want to break down, while the Ministry of Economic Affairs’s law remains valid. [[Abg. Eder: This is nothing new!]] If we have founded a GmbH today and have invested the stock capital, then it can be opened immediately! And it is indeed insolvent because the fund has the funds to make available and therefore the GmbH feeds! Because you have presented the situation with regard to current contract staff as such: Oh, my God! It must be our duty under the employment constitution to take over these contract staff with all their rights there, and they may even improve their conditions if they are able to exchange some of the benefits granted to them under direct agreements even for wage increases! And there is an extra provision for the civil service regulations. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] It is certain that two ministries are currently involved in this matter and that a GmbH is better able to bundle administrative competence and bridge communication problems between the economic and social sectors. This enables us to avoid double-tracks given by the parallel structures. [[Abg. Oils: Ah!]] After all, we have to move 5 billion schilling there, and there would certainly be more cost transparency and less administration, even in connection with the review procedures, of benefit. And if you address the standards: Twelve Standards... – It's been locations so far, and it's proven that no more than 5 percent of workers... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: There is a difference between "site" and "standard"!]] Locations – You only have to listen carefully! Only 5 percent of the workers have taken this direct path, the rest of them have played anyhow via courts and chambers of workers, and subsequently by fax and e-mail. If we say today, we reduce to nine offices and branches: Oh, my God! The application may be filed with any insolvency cash fund and any bankruptcy court, and the competent office will deal with the case accordingly! Value analysis and cost-setting accounts are likely to lead to new business concepts. I see no problem at all in the fact that we are leading this to rationalization. If this saves camera-listics when we reach a thinning in the direction hierarchy, we have more satisfaction with the workers and faster processing. And – here I come back to the Minister again – I could also imagine a reduction in additional wage costs by reducing the contribution from 0.7 percent of gross wages to 0.5 percent. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does "back" mean? He wasn't here yet!]] I think you've even suggested that. I, too, support the extension of the scope of implementation. The commitment of the Fund remains constant. And if you speak heartily, take a heart and ask Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger how he kept it with the purpose of the Fund! – At least we keep it so that we get money back in here!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20309	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20330	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr Bauer at the moment did not have the time to follow me, but I would have liked to object to his persuasive speech that what he claims is that the company consulting firm has clearly explained to him in a very clear way that a reduction in execution by half is possible, if not true: Six and a half minus two months – and the company consulting firm has said it is possible to reduce two months – is not the same as six and a half by two. There's another result. In so far as one wants to follow this optimistic forecast of business advice – what the Court of Auditors does not do, he fears otherwise... [[Abg. Head: This is the "decisive" question: whether it's four months or three!]] Well, that makes a difference. It makes a difference! [[Abg. Head: Yes! Yes!]] And then there are not four months, but four and a half months: six and a half minus two. – We take it very precisely with the truth! [[Abg. Head: Okay!]] But that's not really the point. I have found the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs almost "sweet" in which, as a reason why this must be, the whole is due to the fact that the first two different ministries are concerned and the second is that the Federal Social Office has a spatial and objective mix. I would have liked to recommend to the business consultants that the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour look at its material – possibly also the spatial – mix situation. They would probably have found them much more fun, even though the Minister had become more sad, because then probably this cumulation – with which you are very agreed and which you have sought – would not have resulted in it in a Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. This not only constitutes a spatial and factual mixed situation, but also a proper diversity of interests, which your ministry, namely that for business and work, there is. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: You believe that!]] You believe this differently, but my knowledge is not based on faith – perhaps in contrast to yours – but I am quite clear on this question that a minister of economics – and I have already mentioned the example to you, and the interpretation does not come from me, so it has not grown on my dung – who on the one hand has to approve operating facilities in the first instance and on the other hand has to decide opposition to operating plant permits from the labour inspection sides in the first instance, then before the Supreme Court can actually only act as an economic minister against the Minister of Labour – and he will not do so, not at all, Mr Bartenstein, I would once think! [[Abg. Head: You believe you know for sure!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is what you will show me, Mr Minister, that you will then go here and say: As Minister of Labour Bartenstein, I am clearly in favour of this, and I want the Ministry of Economic Affairs – that is, Bartenstein – to be subject to the procedure. – I would have liked to hear that from you! I am afraid that we will not be able to take this out until the excess, because the mixed situation – the spatial, material and interest-based mix situation – is already taking place between the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Labour and the procedure is already going to be quite indecisive or "mixed". But, Mr Federal Minister, after you spoke, I would have liked to address a question to you, with regard to a problem which is mentioned in the Court of Auditors report – and my colleague Werner Kogler has already mentioned it. You have very good officials in your ministry – including those who have cared for the insolvency fund funds – are very good officials, and since they obviously have to either move into the fund or stay in the ministry, I would also like to thank them for their work so far; but in this case I am speaking of those very good persons who work in the law – and since I am already asking myself whether this really is the future of ministerial activity, that what you could really do and should do in the ministry, namely, the law on the laws – except you give us, the Parliament, or the Greens as the opposition party, then we can talk about – must be transferred to a law firm. That was the case again: Now we have outsourced the ASVG novelle, we have outsourced... [[Abg. Head: One argument against it!]] – An argument against this? – Ten arguments I could bring you, but the light is shining already and my speaking time is not that long. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... you can cut the ministerial office by half!]] You yourself, Mr. Kopf, or the department representing your interests within the ÖVP, give arguments against what the rulers of the law firm Schönherr/Barfuss/Torggler & Partner produce! [[Abg. Head: Against Content...!]] Content? Yeah, I think so. I would say, Mr President, that the Ministry would not make such a legal case, and also what the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs takes over on arguments comes from the same pot, ladies and gentlemen. It is precisely the mixed position here, although one knows that the ministry has the problem with the mixed situation, that is, I can only call it naïve – really naïve, as it can come from a law firm, which has a limited order and which determines that which, however, cannot and does not want to be determined, because it is the ministry from which it receives the order. In fact, if you take it seriously, you would have to look at it a little more fundamentally, then you might have to insist that the mixed situation is due to the ministerial competences. But I wasn't there. I am at the office of Schönherr/Barfuss/Torggler, and I would still have liked to know from the Federal Minister whether the sums also mentioned by the Court of Auditors of around 5 million and a few more crushed hundred thousand schilling now refer to the office of Schönherr/Barfuss/Torggler and to what she has done in advance, or whether other orders, so to speak, in addition to the 5 million. And by the way, Mr Bundeskanzler, the Court of Auditors, with the... – Federal Minister! – Oh, that can happen to me, that I am already mistaken you with the Federal Chancellor! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Federal Minister!]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! The Court of Auditors gives real valuable and important arguments why, with the same effect – and that would actually be the pride of a minister – an office could provide the same, if only one left it and if one gave it the opportunity to organise, which is also possible within the framework of a ministerial administration. It would certainly be the same, if not better results and also better control by Parliament, as it would be for a stockpiled GesmbH, which can still set up subsidiaries for this purpose and in which it is obviously not even certain whether it is possible to sell company shares.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20497	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20518	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Oellinger, you have only dealt on the verge of the actual subject of the negotiation, with the exclusion of IAF-Service GmbH. For reasons of time, I do not want to address the question you did not address for the first time on the sensibleness of the merger of economic and labour market agents in a department. [[Abg. Oils: That's the tension!]] Let me conclude by saying: Yes, it makes sense, and such a location ministry is good on the road not only in Austria, but also in other European countries in the interests of the economy and the workers of the country. [[Abg. Oillinger: In whose interest, that's the question!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whether and to what extent legislative drafts and others are created on the basis of activities of consultants or law firms, to what extent time and others play a role here, you should already leave this to the respective department responsible. In this connection, we have chosen this way, other colleagues are becoming and have also made draft legislation out of the house in the case of the case of the case. That can and will make sense sometimes. I don't assume it's going to be the rule. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now, however, let me refer to the statements made by Members of the House by the liberals, who put the expectation and hope in the room that the ISG contribution could be reduced by 0.2 percent in the next few months, i.e. as of 2003. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] It is right, ladies and gentlemen, that, from today's point of view, there will be surpluses in the Fund at the end of 2002. We expect the Fund, which remains the same as it is, to have a negative balance of 1.4 billion at the end of 2001. It is not right, Mr Dobnigg, to say that 3.7 billion schillings have been used for budget adjustment in 2001, but - indirectly, but nevertheless - for forced labour compensation, an undertaking which you, I believe, have also given your consent to in principle. Minus 1.4 billion at the end of 2001, but then plus 0.9 billion schilling at the end of 2002, in the third quarter of 2002 therefore the passage through the zero line: This should make it possible to reduce contributions by 0.1 to 0.2 percent – 0.2 percent from today’s point of view – by 2003. Mr Dobnigg! I'm a little surprised. You spent a good part of your speaking time defending the Leoben site. I am not surprised, and you are honoured, and of course this is your right as a regional MP. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that a number of serious reasons to be taken have been raised for bringing Leoben and Graz together, in this case in favour of Graz. Mr Grollitsch and I and others, including Mr Missethon, are of the opinion that it is also a matter of putting together MinroG, but that this should then be done in Leoben and that the tasks should be concentrated there. So this can happen once. What surprises me, however, is that, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the future staff need for Leoben would be just 2.7 employees a year. It should be assumed that such a solution would have also suffered from the efficiency, quality of work and the organisation of work. The fact that this does not come about is in the interest of and in the sense of the applicants, the workers from insolvent establishments, who want to be entitled to their money in four months and not only in six and a half months. 2.7 employees per year! - You know the study. I can still remember very well the time when we here in the House lost thousands of jobs, ladies and gentlemen – thousands of jobs! – in which Mur-Mürz-Furche had to complain because the decline of the national lights took place there. Thousands of jobs were alone in Donawitz, in the direct neighborhood of Leoben. At that time I heard neither from you nor from the representatives of the Socialist Group that you had similarly complained of the loss of these jobs, honourable Members. I would add, however, that the question of Leoben's location is of course also to be seen with regard to the number of applications processed. The figures for the years 1996 to 1999, i.e. a period of at least four years, show that only 1 314 applications, i.e. 4 per cent, had to be processed from Austria to 34 000 applications in Leoben, i.e. a further reason to combine in the sense of efficiency and economy Graz and Leoben. As with a single exception for all of Austria, there will be a body in each country to deal with such claims. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be denied at all that most of the budget savings to be expected are due to the fact that in the future the staff costs will be covered by contribution payments. But I think it is perfectly normal for the contribution-paying employers to cover the staff costs of this structure and not the general taxpayer. But you know as well as I do, my very dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, that about 10 million schillings will also be to be achieved by purely improving efficiency and – not only but also – makes sense in this title this distribution, an extension, which – in quotation marks – "only" covers about 100 workers, but at least a volume of around 5 billion schillings of contribution payments per year, which is why we have allowed it the necessary care. Mr President. Thank you for granting the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20581	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20602	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dobnigg was on the road in a fundamental-oppositional manner. He said at first that the Social Democrats were basically positive about this matter, but – and then it has already started with the Colognes like "worships", such as "destruction", like "removing", perhaps forgetting when "debtsing" that it was already social democratic finance ministers who invented the disbursement of funds to improve the budget situation, and not now the new finance minister. But apart from the desire to maintain Leoben as a location, the arguments on this question have actually been avoided. On the theme of Leoben, which has been associated with the poor people who now have so far ways: This will be so in individual cases that the way will continue, but, please, we do not assume here from a situation that people need this facility once a week, but that they hopefully and generally only very, very rarely have to take advantage and frequent it. And one thing has already been held here: It is in view of a state quota, as we have in Austria, given the costs, the overall cost of this task that we are carrying out here, but for many other tasks also in our country, to take much too much tax money from our citizens in order to manage and do what we are doing. It is therefore our damn duty to make the administration in this country as efficient as possible, and there are, of course, outsourcings such as those that are present are a very suitable and good means of achieving these efficiency gains. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dobnigg: Not that good again!]] As it has been criticised by Mr Oellinger that the Federal Minister has taken the opportunity to outsource the legal formulation of this law from the house, I ask myself: Where is the problem to be, Mr Oellinger? [[Abg. Oillinger: (keeping a newspaper in height) See the headline?]] Where is the problem, where is the Connex to the whole? Where's the Connex? [[Abg. Oils: The law firm!]] Wait a minute! Please keep the content and the actual legal version apart. If you say that the law might have looked different if it had been done in the house, I'm wondering: Then what would have been different? I assume that the Federal Minister gives the officials as well as the law firm clear instructions, what he expects of this law and what he wishes, what should stand in it and how it should stand. Do you think that there are ideologically oriented officials sitting there who would have formulated a law the way you might have liked it? Did you mean that? [[Abg. Ollinger beats his hands together.]] - I don't know, I don't want to put it. It just sounded like it. I assume that a lawyer does not deal with the task with political attitudes, but implements the political mission of his political chief, regardless of whether it is a law firm or whether it is officials of the ministry. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or are you starting from something else? I'm just asking: Are you going from something else? I believe that the duty of the legalist is simple and simple to implement what is politically wanted. No more and no less. The exclusion and efficiency of the administration, please, has nothing at all to do with what has been said and has not been justified. You, Mr Oellinger, have also been guilty of the factual argumentation on my question with the interpretation of the flashing of the lamp. You have actually continued where Mr Dobnigg has begun: with keywords such as removal, such as demolition, without giving any proof that this is happening here. [[Abg. Oils: And what are you doing? Did you bring a single argument?]] There is an increase in efficiency in order to deal responsibly with contributions paid in these funds, and nothing else please! [[Abg. Oil: Where? Tell me where?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20726	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20748	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To say it right away: It is certainly not possible to imagine how this is always done, that we are out of a justamental position against this proposal for a law. That's simple and just not true. But we believe that the whole matter was treated far too hard at all and that the opposition from home was too little. It was not only too little discussion with us, but more and more people from the social partners' scene are reporting concerns about this draft, but their opinion is not, unlike a good old tradition in this country, particularly in this government. The first sentence of the explanatory statement, which states that insolvency payments are one of the greatest achievements of the Austrian social legislation, is the spirit of social security. How little this government has respect for all these things shows the elimination of the funds carried out by the Minister of Finance, namely to an extent of 2 billion schilling in 2000 and of 3.7 billion in 2001. At this point I would like to clarify a little, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister has just said that these 3.7 billion have been used for the compensation of forced workers. – It is not true that we voted in this way: We have agreed that this will be done, but not from this pot, ladies and gentlemen. And if this continues – and this is the case with this Minister of Finance – it will be the highest time that those who pay these amounts will once again be very hard on the other hand, because that is not least a lot of small entrepreneurs who are asked to cash out here. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only paying the service providers' contributions, but in doing so we are practically paying a budget re-distribution special tax, which has already been discussed up to the social partners. What if the economic situation really gets much worse – that is not excluded, from the current point of view – and the insolvency is increasing? Where do you take the money? But it seems that these are not the concerns of the Minister, because the benefits are drastically reduced and the contributions are increased. It's that simple. But now for some details, ladies and gentlemen. On page 16 of the explanatory notes, the first paragraph states that the federal government saves around 7 million y, which is 96 million schilling, on personnel costs. How's that going, I wonder, without that being deducted from the substance of the capital of benefits? Skill You share this optimism – the Minister is unfortunately not here – that these amounts benefit from the listed savings potentials such as computer, speeding up the duration of the proceedings, interest rates and so on to the federal government? Or: It shows the possibility that the company can also open up new business areas. Which are these? This is a flat rate without any name designation. What if these experiments, these additional transactions go wrong, ladies and gentlemen? Who's in custody? Or: Can you rule out that there can be distortions of competition here, as is stated in § 12 Z 6 on page 3? This is not excluded, for example, from the provision of insurance and the like. Or: § 8 regulates the appointment of the Supervisory Board and sets the number by 3 to 5. Why aren't these anymore? Those, ladies and gentlemen, do not cost the big money. But it would be very appropriate if those people on the Supervisory Board were also represented, for example, a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, and also those concerned, i.e. a representative of the Chamber of Workers. These are the ones it is all about, and therefore it would not be uninteresting if these representatives could be present in this body. What would interest me particularly is whether this company can be examined by the Court of Auditors. Finally, it should be mentioned again: Nothing against the basic idea of this construction! Of course, we are also in favour of this because branches are always bad and because, in view of these, the efforts to achieve rapid fulfilment of the claims for those concerned would certainly not have been successful. Only: Just as this law has been whipped through, so we want and so we cannot agree with good conscience. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20813	The next speaker is Mr Brugger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20834	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, although a lot has already been said about insolvency insurance, I am still going to say a few words about it. Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of insolvency insurance is one of the major achievements of Austrian social policy. Workers, home workers and survivors were granted entitlement to default fees in the event of bankruptcy or similar cases. The funds for insolvency payments amounted to around 5 billion schilling last year. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a target of our government policy, where it is useful and reasonable to find potential savings in the administration. Reforms are useful and useful in the structures of the Fund, since the Fund is established by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour and is also represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, but the implementation by the Federal Offices for Social Affairs and the Disabled is subject to the Social Minister. The aim is to make the payment more effective with this government template and more service-oriented and above all more effective. It triggers the administration of the payment insurance from the previous structures and distributes a company with limited liability. The draft law includes a breakdown from the ministerial administration and the establishment of an insolvency fund-funds service GmbH, in short IAF-Service GmbH. The aim is not only to save the federal budget, but also to create a service-oriented service for the workers. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that important synergies can also be used. For the first, the period is reduced from the application to the recognition of the insolvency fee, and for the second, claims made to Service GmbH against insolvent companies are applied more quickly and efficiently, and for the third, market economy practices are also introduced by an interest service. Ladies and gentlemen! Another government template, namely the one that amends the Patent Lawyers Act, liberalizes access to the profession of the patent attorney EU-compliant. There are some necessary legal adjustments. For example, the circle of studies, which are recognised as professional requirements, is extended, the profession of a patent attorney is also to be exercised by companies, and new to the third is that, due to the increased risk in modern economic life, a professional liability insurance is required. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I would like to ask you to agree to these legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20881	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20902	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft law is an outlay in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. It is, in fact, a relatively small exclusion, which the Federal Minister has granted us in the committee itself, the less I understand the excitement of the opposition. You blamed us here, a bill is being whipped through, he's going to be dealt with in haste, and you were too little involved. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a contentious argument, but these are arguments in order not to allow changes. The opposition has proved to us today that it is actually a structural-conservative opposition. We have heard four experts in the Committee, unlike Mr Oellinger, who spoke for it, two experts who have been nominated by the Government Party – those experts who have finally prepared for this exclusion – as well as one expert from the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB. The colleagues or the experts of BSL Management Consulting and the law firm Schönherr/Barfuss/Torggler have made it very clear to us with the arguments that a change, namely, a breakdown, allows the desired structural effects, namely a rapid, efficient management of insolvency payments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] These arguments were as follows: The aim is to avoid double-tracking, the use of resources efficiently, the use of staff, depending on the needs, and the most important thing – many of my previous speakers have already stressed this – is to: The procedure is to be streamlined because it is the objective of allowing more rapid recognition of insolvency payments. It is, as has been said, a relatively small breakdown, it does not concern very many employees. All employees affected were prepared for it by the current head. It was prepared sensitively, the employees were involved, and essentially there was no rejection on the part of the employees, but a broad consent to it. All the less understandable from our point of view is the rejection of the opposition. You do conjure up your willingness to allow administrative simplifications in Sunday's speeches and here again and again in general floskels, but then when the nail sample comes, unfortunately you fail.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20944	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20965	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The SPÖ does not need a defender of duty, but that you make yourself here and say that only the vultures and the humors come from the opposition at all, is particularly tragic in that the Minister has left out every opportunity to comment on the clear questions addressed to him today. He said nothing at all about the constant award of orders to law firms – always the same – in these sensitive materials. And colleague Kopf asks: Well, what's wrong with that? If you do not think that these things are being outsourced in such a way, and at the same time more and more people are being employed and money spent in the ministerial offices and in the civil service, the question is: What's behind that? Is this already the case as in the Forstinger Ministry, the small, light pursuer: You're just sitting in the red sea than blue submarine, as Mr. Haupt has said? Is that what this is about? In any case, taxpayers are very interested in this increase in costs, but the Minister has not said a word about why only the preliminary phase of this billing must cost 6 million schilling, although more and more people are working in the ministries and in the cabinets who are getting more and more beautiful and more random contracts. You know that very well. He has missed this opportunity, and this is also to be recorded in the Minutes. We will still be able to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21000	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law in 737 of the Supplements. Mr Hizu, Members of Parliament, Mr Dietachmayr and Mr Comrades, have tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dietachmayr and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(11). 1 introduced. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I am looking for a positive sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. . Once again, I find the majority and therefore the acceptance. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 484 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I see unanimity again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now entering a series of votes on item 6 for which I have put the vote at this time. We shall vote on the draft law in 699 of the supplements. Mr Reindl, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment or amendment. There are also several amendments tabled by Dr Mertel and Comrades. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Oellinger and by Mr Dr. Mertel and Mr Pendl. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, in line with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to Articles 1 Z 2 and 10 as well as to Articles 2 Z 1 and 4 and the amendment to the terms of reference as a result. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – I note the majority and therefore the acceptance. Members Reindl, Dr. Feurstein and comrades have submitted an additional request to include a Z. 4a provided for in Article 2. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to Article 2(5) and (7). I ask those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I am seeking a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled three amendments which refer to Article 2 Z 8. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. In addition, Mr Reindl, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2 Z 8. Who is for this, I seek for a sign of faith. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 3(10), 27 and 29. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – I notice: It is the majority and thus the accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 3 Z 37, as amended by Mr Reindl, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are in favour of it. – I note the unanimity and therefore the acceptance. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment relating to Article 6a(4). I ask those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Reindl, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a Z 5a in Article 6. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 6 Z 10. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are in favour of it. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. In addition, Mr Reindl, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 6 Z 10. In case of consent, I am looking for an important sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 7(4) and (10). I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I am looking for a positive sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Mr Mertel and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which has the content of the deletion of Article 12. I am looking for a sign of this for those Members who stand up for it. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Reindl, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article 12. When I consent, I seek a sign of confirmation. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – I expressly state that there is a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 9. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (449 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Slovak Republic amending the Treaty on the common State border of 21 December 1989 ==References====External links== ==References== January 1994 and Appendix (672 of Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (488 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the International Commission on the Protection of the Danube on the Headquarters of the International Commission on the Protection of the Danube (673 of the Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (538 of the Supplements): Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Maritime Court (674 of the Supplements) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (563 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the fields of culture, education and science (675 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (588 of the Supplements): Declaration by the Republic Austria concerning the consensual termination of three State contracts in relation to the Czech Republic (676 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21320	We now come to points 9 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Inge Jäger has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21350	Mr President. I have to confess, I'm a little stranger because the woman's foreign minister is not present. I assume you, Minister of State, represent them. [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer: I represent her!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to my actual speech, I would like to... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why are you strangers?]] Because the foreign minister is not here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She can't be anywhere!]] In a foreign policy debate, it is mostly here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is not a foreign policy debate!]] Yes, unfortunately, because the foreign policy report has been completed in committee and because the government parties have absolutely decided to do so! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank God!]] I regret that. It's a stylistic break, too. In the past there has always been a debate on the foreign policy report. I think that is another example of how these government parties deal with the opposition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In principle, there would be a whole series of things to discuss, but well, let's go into the discussion about the templates that we decide here today. These are, in part, very positive agreements. I just call it the cultural agreement with Slovenia; there will be talks about this, Mr Muttonen. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I also, in principle, welcome the agreement, according to which the headquarters of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube is established here in Vienna, which includes all the countries joining the Danube region. The purpose of the Danube Convention is to provide water-based cooperation in the field of water protection and water use. It is about sustainable water protection, in particular the Danube, but also all the flowing waters. It seems particularly important to me that the Danube Protection Agreement... [[Abg. Silhavy: Inge, if the woman foreign minister is not here – Dr. Khol is already taking her place!]] [[Abg. Mr Zweytick: I call Mrs Jäger.]] It is important that the Danube Convention has a cross-border impact in the areas of water conservation, water protection, flood protection and the defence of ice hazards. The need and importance of this facility has long since been clear since the major poison accidents in Romania, which took place last year. I would like to remind you again. It is now a year since a collection pool in Romania of the "Aurul" mine in Baia Mare brought 110 000 tons of water into the heat with cyanide and heavy metals. So far, the consequences of this severe poisoning are felt both in the rivers around the Danube – as is the hell that is just going into the Danube – and in many areas of the Danube itself. There are scientists who say: We cannot estimate the impact today; they are quite similar to the effects of the nuclear reactor disaster in Chernobyl. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In order to prevent such disasters in the future, it is necessary that an international Commission actually adopts these issues. The focus of this work will be the support of a monitoring system for water quality. There will be an early warning system in the event of accidents and an emission expert group that will constantly observe the water quality of the Danube. There will be a mobilization to support the Danube Protection Convention in all countries that are now working in this Commission. What I consider very important is that this Commission plays a crucial role in environmental activities in the context of the EU accession process, such as in helping to adapt national laws to EU directives. I think this Commission is about maintaining the quality of life for millions of people living in the Danube area. The aim is to preserve access to natural resources, to prevent permanent environmental damage and to protect ecosystems. I think, in this area in particular, it is clear once again that this cannot be a national concern alone, but that in times of globalisation it is about networking and there are also global protection systems. I very much hope that As a result of EU accession to countries such as Hungary or Romania, particularly the industries that are still working under very anti-environmental conditions and which allow such disasters to happen, they are rapidly modernised and environmental protection is indeed being achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21482	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21504	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Bures: (referring to the largely empty rows of the Freeman's seats) Have you been mad at your group?]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... hide!]] The Austrian-Slovene cultural agreement, which I would like to focus on, is a first important step towards improving relations between the two states. [[Abg. Silhavy: The foreign policy of the FPÖ...!]] It is therefore not a normal or usual agreement for us Freeman, because for the first time in an official contract text the existence of a German-speaking group in Slovenia is recognized. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am saving myself from quoting Article 15; this text is available to you. We know how long it took for this cultural agreement to be signed, how difficult and how laborious it was to make it mature. Since the end of 1998, this agreement had been concluded by the Austrian side, it was on the Slovenian side, which only in 2001, so to speak, felt to be a decision-making maturity and was able to enforce it politically in the Slovenian Parliament in Liège. We know that the content of the agreement is a political compromise. The recognition of the old Austrians pursuant to Article 61 of the Constitution of the Republic Slovenia is not a national recognition as an autochthonic minority – as you all know – as it has been enjoying the small Hungarian and the small Italian minority in Slovenia for decades. That is to say, a constitutional equality of our minority with the Slovenian citizens of Hungarian or Italian origin, who have already enjoyed national minority rights in the communist Tito-Yugoslavia, is still not given in spite of this agreement – and this, although Graz historian Stefan Karner has already provided scientific evidence years ago that the remnants of this German-speaking minority are quite autonomous and include about 2,000 people. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Propos Headnumber, colleague Kurzmann: What are you missing?]] It will therefore be interesting to see how the cultural agreement will affect the acceptance of this small group of people in Slovenia. In 2002, there will be a census in Slovenia, which should have been held in 2001. It will be seen whether the climate will have changed so positively by next year that more members of our minority will be able to confess to their people. One thing is clear: In the public debate in Slovenia, the old AVNOJ laws are still in effect. These are laws that were passed by the Communist Tito Party in the small Bosnian town of Jajce at the end of 1943. These Jajce decisions have served as the basis for the expropriation, expulsion and murder of the German people of the former almost 500 000 people in the SS State, i.e. the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. The AVNOJ provisions have not only addressed the members of our minority, but have also served to destroy the so-called class enemies of the Tito Communists. These AVNOJ laws also persecuted the Slovenian Domobranzen and the Serbian Chetniks, and it was made to them by the Garaus. These old Partisan laws, as I said, are still in effect in the case law of the democratic Republic of Slovenia. It is the so-called denationalization law of the year 1991, which is based on these AVNOJ provisions, which have collectively deprived the Germans of citizenship because of their origin as a people and class enemy. Therefore, these AVNOJ laws, but also the Czech Beneš decrees, are rightly referred to as racist. The commitment of the Slovenians to the alleged collective debt of the German minority members is unacceptable and incompatible with the democratic principles of civilized states. We therefore welcome the Austrian-Slovenian cultural agreement as a step, but believe that it will be very important to improve these Austrian-Slovenian relations. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21614	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21636	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say a few words on the item on the agenda 12. This agreement was perfectly presented by Mr Kurzmann, and I would therefore like to limit myself to political appreciation. We have discussed this for years in this House and have called for such a cultural agreement between Austria and Slovenia. Now it is on the table, and in Article 15, it actually contains for the first time recognition of the old Austrians in Slovenia. This is a remarkable progress and a great success in negotiating. I would therefore like to express special thanks and real recognition, on behalf of the People's Party of Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Office and all those who have participated in the negotiations. That wasn't an easy undertaking. This is something that can be seen, which consistently continues to follow the Austrian foreign policy line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21669	The next speaker is Mrs Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21690	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me first address what is not on the agenda today, but what should have been done here, namely the debate on the 2000 foreign policy report. This report has been completed on the basis of the wishes of the government groups in the Committee, contrary to all the usual practices so far. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's good, isn't it?]] That is, not here in plenary is debated about things in the foreign policy report, which concerns the year 2000, which was not directly uninteresting for Austria. All this is not to be discussed here. This is typical: no debate will be desired! I wonder what the government groups are afraid of: Perhaps before that the subject of the so-called sanctions, the subject of the "wise" report, would be on the agenda? Or – what we might criticise – is that Mr. Busek only occurs in the individual countries and is not recognized as what he actually is, namely, enlargement officer? – Not even the OSCE Presidency wants to discuss the government fractions and probably the Foreign Minister too, although she herself has praised this as such a great success! It is very strange that there seems to be fear of a public debate which leads to a statement against all habits: No, in the plenary we do not debate this foreign policy report like all the other reports. – No one has explained to me why they do not want to. Saving time cannot really have been the motto. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Probably the motto was that you are afraid that the foreign-political chaos that we have debated in the morning – in the early hours – could be brought to the fore again and that you may be reminded again of the differences between certain veto threats on the part of the liberals and between certain announcements of a referendum on enlargement and the like, with the ÖVP saying: No, we don't want that! And the liberals say: Yeah, that's what we want! You do not want to debate these very things here. They fear this public debate on foreign policy and therefore refuse this debate. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! I'm curious if you'll continue next year. [[Abg. Zweytick: With the opinion you are alone!]] Let me now come to two of the points on the agenda today. This includes the cultural agreement with Slovenia, which we very much welcome. I think it is positive that it will finally be concluded and that this will promote mutual understanding, cultural exchange et cetera. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's just the beginning!]] I listened closely to Dr. Kurzmann. It is strange that you are here particularly addressing the interests of the old Austrians, as you call them. The agreement is even more correct: the German-speaking ethnic group. What are the old Austrians? Is it about old age or is it about old Austria? [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Over 65!]] Are they over 65? What is the meaning of "old Austrians"? – In any case, you have insisted here that this ethnic group is mentioned. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: There is a German-speaking minority in Slovenia...!]] It is interesting that this agreement also states that, at the request of the Slovenian side, the Slovenian minority in Austria is also addressed. It is probably legitimate that, when one is addressed, the other is in it. It is also interesting that these explanations state that the country has contributed to Carinthia. Why – you have not already given us an answer to this question in committee – has not the country of Styria also contributed? [[Abg. Zweytick: Can I tell you!]] Or is it because the special interest of the liberals in Carinthia is there in the German-speaking group in Slovenia? – That will probably be the background. In any case, I would like the liberals to join with the same Vehemence with which they stand up for the interests of this German-speaking group in Slovenia, also for the Slovenian people group in Carinthia or Styria, and not simply agree to singing and soundless when bilingual radios such as Radio Agora are removed from support or when directors of bilingual schools no longer have to be bilingual, but only monolingual. I would like them to appear with the same vehemence, not only when it comes to the German-speaking minority in Slovenia. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, well, we know what we are with you, and take note of that! We are still pleased that this cultural agreement exists. One point in this is also interesting, which I would like to discuss with the Foreign Minister, who unfortunately is not here today. This concerns the whole debate on cultural institutions, the closing of cultural institutions and the setting up of cultural forums integrated into the embassies. There's a lot of chaos, too! In the Committee, the Foreign Minister of my colleague, Mr Stoisits, presented a concept which she says has not yet been decided and so on. On what basis are cultural institutions closed in different cities? On what basis are some re-opened as cultural forums, incorporated into the embassies, and the bosses become cultural councils by directors of cultural institutions? – There is quite a lot of chaos here, and there is no clear concept. This is something that causes quite uncertainty in various countries, especially those people who like to take advantage of these offers from Austria. It would be important for the cultural work to really make nails with heads and for the foreign minister to present us in a committee, like the cultural institution, cultural forums, cultural work or, as always, the concept of the Austrian Federal Government for foreign cultural work, but not just piece by piece. In Prague it is transformed into a cultural forum, in Zagreb it has already happened, in Paris it is at all dissolved. However it may develop, it needs precise concepts, but it does not exist. I hope that Mrs Foreign Minister will soon present one so that we can discuss it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, I can only say that we give our approval to the other requests, of course also the request concerning the cultural agreement with Slovenia.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21828	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21849	Mr President. Minister! High house! The importance of the international environmental agreements has also become too clear by the environmental disaster on the Danube river basin. Since the Bucharest Declaration in 1985, the Convention on the Protection of the Danube has been advanced at international level. Especially in the Eastern European countries, which in the first decade after the downturn of Communism also had to contend with and still fight against their economy, environmental protection is unfortunately only of very minor importance. The majority of the signatar states of the Danube Protection Convention are also EU candidate countries. That is why it is particularly important – my colleague, Mr Jäger, has already pointed out – to point out the importance these countries attach to international environmental protection. This must also be taken into account in the EU accession negotiations. As well as workers' rights, environmental standards must also be raised at the western European level. There must be no environmental dumping in the EU! The Danube Convention and the safeguarding of the headquarters of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube with this Agreement are, as already mentioned, an important step at European and international level. However, in order to live up to the Danube Protection Convention itself, we must also come at our own door, ladies and gentlemen! Nitrate and phosphate input into the Austrian waters through overfertilization must simply stop. This Western European problem of intensive agriculture is still measurable and effective for decades because of the storage capacity of the soils in the water pollution. I doubt that the Eastern European countries of the Danube can afford the extensive wastewater treatment methods over the next few years. International cooperation, technology transfer and co-operation are needed here, but not the threats, particularly from the blue Sides are always shown to our neighbors. The Austrian way to a living environment was also and is still stoned. Ladies and gentlemen! Arrogance is the wrong method here. In this context, I would also like to address the still good Austro-Czech relationship. The statements made by FPÖ ministers and your old partyman to make the closure of the Temelin nuclear power plant to the EU accession condition are in line with the statements of the Foreign Minister to win the European states for cooperation with Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Nobody, really nobody, wants a nuclear reactor on the Austrian border. But do you believe that those in charge in the Czech Republic are getting a glimpse of Haider's word and closing the power plant? – We Socialists also want to prevent Temelin, but we do not want to prevent the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU. Temelin does not break up in air – as my colleague Sima has rightly noted – if Austria prevents the Czech Republic from joining the EU. Unfortunately, the picture that Austrian foreign policy is giving internationally is a torn picture, it is disastrous. Who would already like to cooperate with a partner who says this today and tomorrow that and is causing threats between them?- Oh, my God! Finally, I note that it is still nice to see that the Danube Convention, which was drawn up on its essential international fronts when we still had government responsibility for social democrats, is truly encouraging and positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21900	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21922	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Lunacek, I should like to comment briefly on your speech. They regret that the foreign policy report is not being dealt with in the plenary session but has been finally discussed in the Committee. First of all, I note that this is in conformity with the Rules of Procedure. It has also been decided, and as we have been told, it has also been discussed in the Presidency. You have said here that we might have been afraid of having to discuss the sanctions. Mrs Lunacek, I think the fear should be more on the side of the opposition if we discuss the sanctions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In view of such a discussion, take a positive view of the fact that we have dealt with it out of consideration in the Committee in order to save you a blow again when it comes to sanctions! We know that the vast majority of Austrians have been and have been on our side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Lunacek! Secondly, you have accused the Foreign Minister of a confusion or chaos regarding the cultural institutions or cultural forums. I too was at this meeting, in which the Foreign Minister explained quite clearly to me and to everyone else, that it does not matter whether the child is called "Cultural Forum" or "Cultural Institute", and that it is rather essential that the cultural work abroad continues to be done by Austria, where it does not matter whether cultural work is done in the cultural institute or in the embassy, whether there is a culture institution of its own or whether this area is served by the Embassy in the sense of synergies. – This is the clear statement of the Foreign Minister: Cultural work and cultural promotion continue to the same extent, only the child has a different name. If you encounter it, I may agree with you, but a chaos, as you have said, is really not here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the agenda items: I would like to discuss a very important issue, namely the declaration by the Republic of Austria on the consensual termination of three state agreements in relation to the Czech Republic. Those who have not read this statement will probably assume that there is a great deal behind it, but today we only have to perform a compulsory exercise, namely state agreements, which were then concluded with the Socialist Republic of Czechoslovakia and were partly never ratified, ad act and declared obsolet. That's what we want to do today. This does not mean, however, that this is the end of the dialogue with the Czech Republic, because I believe that it is absolutely necessary and much more important than ever to conduct the dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen! Temelin has also been mentioned today: Of course, the problem of Temelin is solved, in so far as discussions need to be held and the Czech Republic needs to be clarified that Temelin is a serious problem for the Austrians. We're sensitized. Mr Heinzl said earlier that Temelin cannot continue as a construction site or as a non-functional power plant. In this context, I remember Zwentendorf: In 1978 we had in Austria the popular vote in this respect, German Chancellor Kreisky said at that time that if Zwentendorf went into his pants, which he meant a rejection to Zwentendorf, he would withdraw. – The Austrians have decided against Zwentendorf, and German Chancellor Kreisky has remained. I just wanted to mention that once to refresh the history of this whole problem. Ztentendorf is still standing today and is useless. I believe that Zwentendorf would be a good example for the Czechs of how to act in this way. That is why I appeal to the Czech Government: If they want to become a member of the common family of Europe, they may have a dialogue with Austria about Temelin, but also about the Beneš decrees to find a common solution with Austria so that we can start a new member of the EU and obtain a family member!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21997	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22018	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too regret that we are not dealing with the 2000 foreign policy report in plenary today. Mrs Lunacek! I asked myself the same questions as you: What's to be hidden? Why can't we discuss this report here in plenary? – I suspect that this is the undemocratic principle of these government parties, who simply do not want a public debate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at this refusal of public discussion and continue to play it thoughtfully, then you do not come to a very positive and beautiful idea, because that has nothing but nothing to do with democracy at all! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to talk today about the agreement between Austria and Slovenia and cooperation in the fields of culture, education and science. The use of the representatives of the ethnic groups and the officials has really been worthwhile! After years of doubling, it is finally possible to strengthen cooperation with Slovenia in the cultural field. I am convinced that the recovery of the Austrian-Slovenian cultural relationship can have a very positive impact on the overall climate. Slovenia is already an important economic partner and will certainly continue to grow as a future partner in the EU community. I think it is very important to work together in the cultural field in order to overcome or exclude prejudices and to get to know each other more closely. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that will not be so easy, because as you know, one of the government parties normally tries to incite and use prejudices in this regard. Therefore, I would be pleased if the ÖVP were to prevail there once, because the march route of the FPÖ leads to an international isolation of Austria! However – and that is unfortunate – it is questionable whether this paper can actually be filled with life and content. The financial resources provided for this are very small, which has been very sorry by several sides, especially by the ethnic groups. In this case, this bilateral cultural cooperation would be a mere lip commitment by the government, and there are some, as I mean, already. Perhaps you just want to calm down the "simple party member" on the remaining border with Slovenia! - I don't know. Furthermore, a declaration with the Czech Republic is to be decided today, with which the Austrian Cultural Institute in Prague is to be closed or transformed in a quiet and quiet manner. It is written quite cryptically that, for example, the status of staff should then be otherwise regulated. Mr. Großruck! I am not your opinion on this. I believe that Mrs Minister's statements in committee were not very clear. I then asked her some questions in writing, and I am very curious about the answers! I think that all of this is just a sign of inconsistency and chaos in foreign culture. It would really be time for a concept to be presented. However, the non-legislative foreign policy report states that foreign culture is a very important part of Austrian foreign policy, culture and image care abroad. For example, you can read: "The year 2000 has made it clear that the communication of information on Austrian history and the Austrian self-understanding is one of the essential requirements for foreign culture policy." - Quote. I can only support this, hoping that the self-understanding does not stop with Mozart and Klimt, but also goes into contemporary culture! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the new thing about this new foreign culture concept is "foreign culture new" – like "government new" everything is somehow new now! – Actually, the chaos is, and I think it is too bad to sacrifice the foreign culture of this chaos! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22062	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22083	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that it is really extraordinary to speak of undemocratic methods today only because the foreign policy report was finally dealt with in the Committee. I don't understand! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is planned in the GO!]] That is absolutely in line with this House's Rules of Procedure! The report was discussed jointly in the Committee and you would have had every opportunity to participate in the debate there. I very much recall this committee meeting, in which you have hardly made any remarkable contributions. If you do not benefit from your chances in the committee, please do not complain that you do not have any opportunities to do so here! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What for!]] That's your thing! I believe that this report has been very successful and good work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – You had the opportunity in the committee, Madame! Why didn't you see these? But I am all the more pleased that today and here I can use the opportunity to express my highest praise and highest recognition to our Lady Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: She's not here at all!]] What our Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs represents and implements as Minister of State in the field of foreign policy is tangible. Maybe you'd like to talk about the sanctions. We had no problem with that! We will be happy to discuss this with you! In this context, too, she was the ambassador of Austria, who contributed to the disintegration and also to de-escalation, because she went out with her sympathetic and open manner and tried to gain new friends outside and to weaken what some have done to this country and to bring everything back to the ground! How well our woman ministers are, you can read from today's "Kronen Zeitung"! – Mrs. Dr. Mertel! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] You could be happy if you were as good at what Mrs Minister is! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] The "Kronen Zeitung" writes: "On the previous day of the opening of the new Austrian Embassy in Berlin, Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner was trying to relax after the EU sanctions anything but conflict-free German-Austrian relations. “We want to maintain old friendships and deepen new ones,” she said. I believe that this shows very clearly how much the Foreign Minister has tried to give this important area the highest priority! A second one: I believe that we Austrians and the Austrian Republic play a special role in the enlargement process of the European Union. That's not easy! However, it has already been recognised that the rules on the free movement of workers are really clear. Hungary has adopted this and is the first state to demonstrate that this is a reasonable way. We have already experienced strong acknowledgment in our entire direction. We can say this today and here, and we are pleased! If today the agreement with the Slovak Republic on the common border is negotiated in this foreign policy block, it is mainly because, because of the political change in this area and the establishment of the Slovak Republic, of course, new legal conditions have also been created. This law refers to this, as is the case in the office agreement with the International Commission on the Protection of the Danube, in particular, which documents the purpose of this Convention in a sustainable manner. Of course, the agreement includes the usual privileges and the usual status of international organisations. There is also a cultural agreement with Slovenia and a declaration on the termination of state agreements with the Czech Republic, which is also due to the change in the general political situation. I think you can see from all this that we take these things extremely seriously. These government documents show very clearly that we have entered a new relationship with our neighbours and that we are developing and redesigning many of the things that came from when these states were far away from us. We are more than ever required to create clear and practicable rules with our regional partners in our respective mutual relations. I think that is crucial, and these laws take full account of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22174	The next speaker is Mr Böhmdorfer, with the following comments: The Federal Minister did not want to take the last word, but he has reported himself as the former. Mr Kurzmann, however, has now been rejected, and that is why you, Mr Minister, have the last floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22195	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to expressly apologise to the Foreign Minister. She could not come to the High House today, because she is in Berlin, and since it is not possible to observe colluding dates at the same time, she asked me for her representation. I can, as I believe, thank you on her behalf for the striking agreement on this issue and for the unanimous agreement. I know that the foreign minister was very concerned about bringing the cultural agreement with Slovenia to the stage. She also mentioned this several times in discussions at government level. And it is also a great success for them, I believe, if the German People's Group is first of all so clear in a international treaty and, of course, a legal mention of its independence. This cultural agreement is secured by a joint Commission, which will meet for a period of three years and develop a work programme. I believe that this will help to deal with many and difficult open issues between the two countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22228	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes, which are naturally carried out separately through the various committee proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty and its annex in 449 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the conclusion of this State Treaty to give a sign. – This State Treaty is unanimously adopted by the National Council. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 488 of the Supplements. Here again, in the case of approval, I may request a sign. – I notice: This State Treaty is also unanimously approved by the National Council. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 538 of the Supplements. In case of consent, I again asked for a sign. – This State Treaty in 538 of the Supplements has also been adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the rallying of the Arab, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish versions of the State Treaty must be carried out by means of a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have tabled this motion by the Committee on Foreign Affairs within the meaning of Article 49(a) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act agree to a sign. – The National Council shall grant this approval unanimously. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 563 of the Supplements. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. – I notice: The National Council decided unanimously to approve this State Treaty. Finally, we have the opportunity to vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to approve the conclusion of the declaration in 588 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this approval to give a sign in this regard. – The decision by the National Council shall be taken unanimously. This is what we have done with these agenda items. 14. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 421/A by Mr Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner, Mag. Reinhard Firlingenrond comrades concerning a federal law on measures to be taken on the occasion of the conversion of the NÖ environmental protection body into a capital company (685 of the supplements) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 422/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner, Mag. Reinhard Firlingenrond comrades on social legislation to facilitate exclusion in the field of countries and municipalities (686 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22354	We come to points 14 and 15. The debate is being held together. Obviously, there is no wish for oral reporting. That is what we are going to enter into the debate. I call Mr Pendl. There is a proposal for a voluntary time limit of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22381	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democratic Group agrees with the Federal Law on measures to be taken on the occasion of the transformation of the Lower Austrian Environment Agency into a capital society, because this not only gives greater transparency, but above all a better value in terms of competition with private companies. I think it is in the sense of this institution that we decide this law together here. However, I would now like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Johanna Mikl-Leiter and Mag. Reinhard Firlinger, who applied for social legislation to facilitate exclusion in areas of the countries and municipalities. The Committee has already discussed this in detail. According to a report in the "Standard" of Thursday, 28. June, the Austrian water industry will be smashed. This report shows that Mr Molterer has commissioned a study by one of the world's largest consulting companies, Price Waterhouse Coopers. I would also ask the Federal Minister from this point of view to make this study available to us! I believe that Parliament has a right to know what this consulting firm has proposed. According to this newspaper report, it is proposed that funding in Austria should be substantially reduced and framework conditions for mergers or privatisations created. In particular, it is noted that there are currently some 4,000 water supply companies in Austria, 190 of which are larger, serving 65 percent of the Austrian population. In this public sector, 2 000 workers are employed. The annual turnover is 4.4 billion schilling, and the federal government provides billions of funding. – The consulting firm proposes to delete the funding and to establish appropriate framework conditions for privatisation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that the water industry is in the interests of the Austrian population, but also of the environment. And that is why I appeal to all local politicians, mayors, but also to the mandates of the regions, to bear in mind that this is an important and central question for our citizens, and ask Federal Minister Molterer from this point of view to make this study available to us again! What are we supposed to think about when we are presented to the Committee on Justice on the one hand and we are discussing this in plenary, but on the other hand we have to get out of the newspapers, which is to be done in one of the areas that are essential to our people and the local authorities? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As some of the consulting companies, such as the Raschauer report, have been reported, such a procedure is proposed in many areas of the communities, not only in the water and wastewater sectors, but also in the waste areas and the municipal economics. It's in discussion. I believe that we all need to address these important central issues together in the interests of a well-functioning community and the basic care of the Austrians. However, we cannot accept this motion for a resolution if we are not told by the government groups what we really intend to do. I therefore ask you quickly for the necessary information in the interests of the citizens, especially in the interests of the Austrian communities. This study has certainly also been paid by means of tax! Create Therefore, you have the necessary transparency in such an important central area of our home country by providing the necessary information!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22441	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22463	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to say that Mr Pendl has read badly: This is not a motion for a resolution, it is an initiative. In this respect there is not only a formal but also a material difference. That is why I ask you to become more familiar with the matter! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Apart from that, I believe it is really a matter of creating a much larger bracket, namely general conditions, where the Lower Austrian environmental protection body is something like a specific occasion, because there is no such legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! This institution in Lower Austria is now the starting point. At the political level, one has agreed that one wants to transfer this institution into a private right capital company. There are two or more ways to do this. However, the problem is that there is no uniform federal legislation so that this transition can be achieved smoothly. There are only corresponding national regulations which are not fully in line with federal legislation, even with regard to the Austrian federal constitution. For this reason, one has chosen this on and for itself complicated way. There are, as I said, two alternatives. One alternative to private law is to bring an institution as a business investment into a capital company. That's the first way. The second route, which is also increasingly chosen in the private sector, is the change of form. This alternative offers a number of advantages in the context of the substance assessment, the asset assessment, especially if such a company wants to benefit from other business revenues in the future than is the case at present. Of course, these companies, which were formerly run exclusively by a local authority, in this case by the country, must become more independent. But there is not only an example for this, but many examples, not only in Lower Austria, Mr Pendl, but actually in all the federal states! And if we now want to make this measure possible by law, as the SPÖ has rightly feared, it does not mean that we are immediately using a huge privatisation wave, but only that we want to carry out legal self-employment cleanly and as cleanly. As far as these opinions are concerned, Mr Commissioner, I can only say to you: In any case, for each individual case, which will also be discussed here in the future, there are other conditions, sometimes an opinion, some the other opinion. But that there is, as it were, a potential for self-employment in mass, so there will be no one at all. In addition, I believe that these societies will ultimately also be better managed operationally and economically if we open the way, as proposed here. Last point: I also believe that it is possible to allow these societies to operate actively in the future, not just to wait for a specific task. I do not think that environmental concerns or, for example, the usefulness of environmental rights or other environmental goods are so important, that we are, as it were, creating these legal crutches for them. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to give your consent to the law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22520	Please, I would just like to make it clear that we have no problem with the vote: Mr Pendl rightly referred to a motion for a resolution, tabled by Mr 422/A (E). [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Eben! He doesn't know his own application!]] He said that he could vote in favour of Amendment No 421, but he rejected 422/A (E), and that is a motion for a resolution, so that will not be a vote in second and third reading. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Bad read!]] Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22563	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My previous speaker has already made a very different distinction between issues of legal nature and legal crutches, and concerns which are substantial, contentious nature. For us, the priority is not legal, but content, and since the resolution and this request go towards the environment, it is primarily important for us to think that control matters and environmental matters are not matters of privatisation, exclusion and capital companies. That is why we will not agree to these requests, whether resolution or not, because the central control tasks of the State are not questions of the capital-social element or of private foundations, but these agendas should really be in the hands of the bodies and will also be carried out by market-independent institutions. Market-independent institutions are administrative institutions and therefore we will not agree to this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is all about our attitude in relation to the Environmental Control Act, in which we also voted against exclusion, because we have always considered environmental control bodies to be a legitimate state task. Against this background, we see a complete inconsistency between control on the one hand and randomisation of projects and contracts on the market on the other. We have nothing against the fact that there is also a project-oriented movement on the market, but this does not primarily relate to the state control tasks. Against this background, it is therefore necessary to state clearly and clearly: On the other hand, there is also a margin in the market area or in the project area or in the field of these capital companies. I inquired on the spot with our Lower Austrian friends, and they meant that the country of Lower Austria, if this institution is now a capital company, would practically also get rid of its own laboratory and thus its own control institution. And our Lower Austrian friends do not want this because they fear a thinning of control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against this background, our friends there have also said that possibly even a division would be possible. In principle, we are opposed to being segmented here, divided, and controlled under market-economy influences. That is why we focus our attention on the substance of the matter. I admit that there is a formal legal aspect on which we can also talk, but on this point the content is a priority for us and therefore our rejection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22617	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22638	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the case of public law entities operating similar to a commercial undertaking, it is appropriate and appropriate to transfer their activities to a capital company. Such a transfer will improve accounting for the public, but above all the position in competition between private companies and facilitate cooperation with private partners. Therefore, a legislative proposal was also submitted by Mr Mikl-Leiter and Mr Firlinger, which concerns the privatisation of the Lower Austrian Environmental Protection Agency. The Lower Austrian Environmental Protection Agency was established in 1974 by the Lower Austrian Environmental Protection Act and is now carrying out important tasks in the field of waste management, chemical environmental analysis, air conservation, water conservation, noise protection, as well as radiation protection. The Niederösterreichische Umweltanstalt has 200 employees and operates on its own strength. One can say, therefore, that it is a medium-sized company that is very successful in its field, because it is actually managed privately. Mr Moser, the institution is already being run privately! The proposed law now provides for the conversion of the Lower Austrian environmental protection body from a public law body into a capital company. This transformation is not due to the desire and mood of the legislation, but is extremely important for the company, because only a universal legal succession for which we need Parliament's decision ensures that not a second society needs to be created. It would also transfer the competences and, of course, it would also have the private economic advantages, but there would be an empty cover. Only a regulated succession guarantees that there is no problem for the current partners of the Lower Austrian Environment Agency and for the company itself, that no contracts are broken and that no new agreements need to be negotiated. In clear text: Through this law, we decide on a meaningful and necessary transition. Overall, we expect the competitive position of the Lower Austrian Environment Agency and thus the company to be strengthened. We have found broad consensus on this request in the Committee, and this is very encouraging. I would point out that two and a half years ago, former city councillor Brigitte Ederer, who is in the private sector in the meantime, initiated the privatisation of the city buildings in Vienna, also with the argument that this company has great competitive opportunities. As it turned out, the city’s works did quite well to breathe private air. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the country of Lower Austria, the environmental protection body and all those who have worked closely on this subject are clearly in favour of the legislative proposal, the Greens are resisting, according to the motto: Where government insists and the environment is inside, that can only be bad. In reality, you have already placed the environmental competence, ladies and gentlemen of the greens you have carried around in the jutesackerls. I agree with you that the State should not give up responsibility in important areas, of course, this includes environmental protection. The owner of the Lower Austrian Environmental Agency as a capital company will be the state of Lower Austria. This will ensure public control, however, with the essential difference that other partners can now also participate in environmental protection and environmental matters. And that is probably also very reasonable and in the sense of the matter. I do not see anything negative in the request for the facilitation of exclusion, because in fact it is only one thing: Where private tasks of countries and communities can be better, more efficient and cost-effective, they should also do so. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to accept this request. As an environmentally conscious Lower Austrian representative, I address this request to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22693	Mr Böhmdorfer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22714	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have now come to the floor because I am aware of some misunderstandings in Mrs Moser's speech. I believe that the fundamental problem is at least partially recognized here. It cannot be the case that the State should carry out entrepreneurial activities in principle and at least in any case, I believe it must be agreed that public rights institutions must be able to be transferred into social forms of private law. I believe that this concession must be made regardless of the personal attitude and ideology and regardless of the political attitude. There are now two ways to take this step: One is that the assets of public law institutions are transferred into a capital company in the form of a business investment. If this happens, there will be a wealth of problems. The legal cover of the institution remains. For the contracting partners, employees and creditors, there are many legal uncertainties that endanger economic life and also cause legal disputes that could be left behind at all. They could be left behind in the direct transformation of an institution of public law into a private-law form of society. Especially for this economically and legally correct form of conversion, if privatized when structured, there is not a sufficient legal basis. You can't ignore that. What is now to be done is to create a sufficient legal basis. Please, Dr. Moser, do not assume that the state is also better controlled than it is in the private sector. It's not like that. In the private sector, there are sufficient and historically grown control bodies in the capital companies, in particular supervisory councils with liability rules, including throughputs, i.e. a system of control and supervision, which is precisely necessary for this economic activity. However, the State is not really set up on economic activities. It is therefore not quite understandable, I believe, if the motion for a resolution fails to accept it, because it is necessary to provide a proper legal form for the respective form of economic activity as a rule of law and as a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22762	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22784	Mr President. Minister! High house! To Mr Kößl for information: Mr deputies, the Wiener Stadtwerke are still in the 100% ownership of the city of Vienna and are therefore not privatized. That's just for your information. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also debating today an application for social legislation to facilitate exclusion in the field of countries and communities. Your ideology, ladies and gentlemen, from the right side of this House, is once again quite open: They expropriate the Austrian population to Strich and Faden. In this proposal, they announce that further enlargements and privatisation steps will continue to be planned in the future. This is actually a dangerous threat to you. They take away their property from the Austrian population and give it to your friends – this is well known. The biggest arrogance in the whole matter is that you want to give a few private owners the benefit of the companies, but any liability should take over the taxpayers. The state should not have any more of it, but it should pay nicely if the private owner, by whatever reason, comes into a difficult situation. Mr Mikl-Leiter wrote in the explanatory statement on the request: "The transfer of the economic activities of the public sector into private law has proved successful." If you were honest, that sentence would actually have to be: The transfer of the economic activities of the public sector in legal forms of private law has proved its worth for the black and blue rope company. – You take it from the poor and give it to the rich. I ask you: Where does the Christian remain, where does the social thing remain in your actions, ladies and gentlemen of the Chancellor's Party? But of course, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be the third strongest party in the country, you have to promise a lot of things, for example, to make heavy blue even richer, and that – that is what you have agreed – you are doing quite well! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will certainly not vote in favour of a request that the Federal Minister for Justice should be asked to prepare and prepare a bill which should only serve to hide further privatisation steps from the public. It makes sense that the competence for private and company law lies with the federal government. They want to transform or transfer more and more public law and public sector companies into private and private companies. Ladies and gentlemen on the right side of this House! That "More private, less state!" No patent recipe shows us with all the clarity, among other things, Great Britain, where, among other things, the conservative right government has privatized the railways, the health system and the water supply. The consequences – which is known – are devastating: A railway accident after another, the once exemplary health care is only possible to the extent of the well-favoured population, and clean water, dear honourable Member, if you do not know, there is only more in England in shops, and this is quite expensive to buy. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a result of Tony Blair's government!]] You seem to want that too! All of this, High House, ladies and gentlemen, also flourishes the population of Austria if black and blue continue to remain in the government. We do not want this policy of social democrats!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22827	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall therefore come to the vote, and we shall vote first of all on the draft law and on the title and receipt in 685 of the supplements. I can ask those Members of the House who agree to this bill to give a sign. . I note that the draft law was passed by a majority in 685 of the supplements. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. – The proposal was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 686 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 94.) 16. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (525 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Supreme Court and the Court Organisation Act (687 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22883	This leads us to the 16th place. Debates of the European Parliament I do not have a wish for oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. I call Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22912	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The law under discussion is essentially a law on the organisation of the Supreme Court on technical possibilities, in particular on the way in which documents can be drawn up which can be used in legal work at the evidence office. We will vote in favour of this law. On this occasion, however, I would like to say a few points which have been rather unpleasant to me when considering matter. The first was an opinion of the General Procuratorate, which expressed itself at a time when the opinion procedure had already begun. This shows once again that the Federal Government obviously does not want to really include those circles in the discussion that could actually deliver inputs due to their expertise. I read in the opinion of the General Procuratorate: This points out, with regret – literally – that as an authority directly concerned, it has only been included in the legislative process in the assessment process, and has only now been informed of the intention to amend the OGH law. Federal Minister! I just don't think it's possible to rule out permanent circles that could bring in expertise for fear of any criticism. I would therefore ask you to take note, but I do not only mean you personally, but that is basically a problem of this government, that we have to have discussions before the decision-making of laws, because otherwise what the Constitutional Court is now showing us in a series of decisions: that laws are being passed that are the Husch-Fuch, which are weak in content, which are being repealed. I mean, you could actually save yourself those embarrassments. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] The next point, which was actually a parade example of trying to silence or prevent professions from unfolding, was the question of the activity report. It has been planned and so far has always been the case that the Supreme Court adopts activity reports which state what it considers to be a problem in the development of justice, where proposals for improvement are presented and where not. There was a discussion on whether this report of the OGH can be published, whether it should be made available to a wider public. And behold, and marvel! It has only required a call from the OGH, an extensive discussion, before you – I do not know if you, Mr Minister, or other persons within your ministry – have agreed to ensure that this report can be presented to the public in fact, because it was originally intended that the report will be sent to the ministry and that it can disappear in a drawer – not necessarily, but can disappear. That is why I do not want to thank you for the fact that, in the end, however, it has come about, the OGH now also has the opportunity to present its report to the public. I do not understand why this is also possible with regard to the opinion which the OGH has inspired on its own by saying that we would like to have the opportunity to comment on ongoing developments and to give up our expertise. I assume that there is obviously another fear here that a criticism of the OGH could not be accepted by this government. Therefore, this request was not accepted. We will nevertheless agree to the law, because we believe that it is basically a reasonable development. We note, however, that it is even necessary in as simple technical areas as here, with a greater effort, to enforce self-evidentness. Federal Minister! However, I would also like to raise another question on this occasion; the framework is certainly not suitable for bringing this together as a whole due to the advanced time and discussion. We have asked you a long time ago to ensure, in connection with the execution of the sentence, that effective measures are taken to ensure a humane execution of penalties, which also corresponds to the laws we have. Instead, we were faced with the fact that, in the context of the budget debate, all serious things were proposed – this proposal has been withdrawn – to rationalise hot water in the prisons. – I think that's an address that speaks for itself. Now, we are faced with the fact that since the beginning of June, four people, inmates, have died in Krem's penitentiary, the last strapped on a belt bed, which is itself forbidden, which should not be used at all, painfully perished by a intestinal clasp, because he was strapped on a bed for a whole night on his hands and feet in the basement. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! These are states that are no longer acceptable. I can't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I should like to ask you – the debate is certainly not over here and today – to take immediate action to ensure that, and, for example, to distance yourself from the idea of implementing, within the framework of the supervisory authority, a delegation and a shift of jurisdiction from the national court to the Oberlandesgericht, thus increasing the distance of decision-makers and reducing efficiency. In this sense, I believe that this is a major task and that we will have a lot of discussions in this context. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22997	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23019	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is, as my previous speaker has explained, that this item on the agenda is the subject of an agreement between all the political groups. I do not yet know the comments of the Greens, but at least in committee they have taken note of them. It is very gratifying that the opposition here and there again decides on the subject-matter policy and not only operates fundamental opposition here in the house. This is rarely enough, one has seen, if one has followed the absurd argumentation on the occasion of the decision on childcare allowance this morning. What was argued here by the opposition of absurd things is just too grotesque and ridiculous. But you will not be able to stop us – just so that you also know, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition – in our reform will, whether it is about the reform of the ORF tomorrow or about the reform of social security. You will not be able to make one either... – My group members know what I am saying, I want to make it clear to you, but I know that my words do not fall on fertile ground. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where is your group?]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: They don't even care!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You will not be able to intimidate us tomorrow with your demonstration of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, where we are threatened: There will certainly not be a walk! – No, we will not be intimidated by such a thing! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: thunderous applause!]] I hope you know what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen. You know that you are mobilising Parliament. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Please, listen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23083	Mr Mainoni! We are now under the Law of the Court of Justice. A few introductory sentences, of course, but now please come to the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23098	Mr President. Of course I also come to the novelle of the court organisation law or the OGH law. But – and I would like to say that at the end of the day; there will be plenty of opportunity to do so tomorrow – the place of democratic political debate is Parliament here and not the road. Please, let yourself say that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Worse: Bravo! Finally! That's what we've been waiting for.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As in the reform of the OGH Act and the Law of the Court of Justice, the Minister of Justice has initiated a number of reforms. You should also look at this and do not operate a fundamental opposition and do not even think about what has already happened. Let us think, for example, of the increase in the penal framework in the area of towing. This is a useful measure decided here on the initiative of the Minister of Justice. Let us think of the Krida reform, the decriminalization by abolishing the crime of the negligent Krida. But let us also consider the change in the law of childhood with the reduction of the age of 18 years. Let us think about the repeal of the § 197 criminal code, ladies and gentlemen, which has only enabled baby nests to be installed in Austria. Or do we also think of the novelle on the addiction law? Tag: Lifelong for drug dealers. Or do we also think about the guarantee reform, if you have not forgotten that yet. You liked the extension of the warranty when buying moving things from six months to two years. – This list could be continued at any time, ladies and gentlemen. Despite frequent attempts at abuse – Mr Federal Minister, you will know better: Were there six applications for distrust, five or seven?; maybe you know about the opposition – should you at least know one thing: The more often such an instrument is used, the less credible the applicant is. That's definitely clear. [[Abg. Silhavy: It’s interesting that you’re talking about nurturing...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Silhavy, this is addressed to you, just as it is addressed to the Greens with her "curriculum professor" at the top of the team. What I would like to say is that if here the Damocles sword of the order call hovers over me, the copyright for the term "scurril professor" have the "Salzburger Nachrichten". Their editor Max Dasch, president of the Association of Austrian Newspaper Editors, calls Mr. Van der Bellen a "scurrily professor". Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Even if you don't want to hear: Dieter Böhmdorfer is a successful reform minister of a successful reform party!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23191	Mrs Fekter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23226	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This OGH law, as already signaled, is probably a unanimous matter; I believe it at least. However, I would like to reply to Mr Jarolim because he has put this law in the Chamber. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: After the "Euroteam" fired! "Euroteam" rhymes on "Jarolim"!]] – Mr Jarolim, the opposite is the case: The OGH has several times ironed out why this law is not passed more quickly. We do not create a new bureaucracy here for the Supreme Court, but rather place the current organisational practice in the Court of Justice on a legal basis. For example, for the first time, the electronic applicability of information technology is legally anchored and in this context also the storage of files on electronic media is permitted, provided they remain permanently available. This includes details on the publicity of decisions and the anonymisation of decisions. The OGH Act – and you are badly informed, Mr Jarolim – was prepared in a successful cooperation between the Supreme Court in person of President Felzmann and the judicial board, and also with myself, for I was involved in this. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... that was the reason!]] The novelle takes account mainly of existing organizational practice and has taken into account the OGH's wishes in all points, except in two, which it has dropped according to good counterarguments. That is why it is quite wrong to say that this would have passed away from those who are concerned. Special attention has been paid to the publicity and accessibility of decisions in an anonymized form. In this respect – and this is a pleasure – we have also taken into account in this novel to the Court Organisation Act that decisions of the first and second instance, if they have special significance beyond the public sphere, must of course also be accessible and thus included in the documentation. The internal revision as a task, carried out by the Vice-President of the Court of Justice of the second instance, the clear regulation of the distribution of business with the possibility of application of the judges concerned, the clear definition of tasks and the activity report mentioned by Mr Jarolim, are just some of the priorities of this amendment. Of course, the activity report has an obligation to deal with the Minister of Justice. It can, however, – and this is a Cann-destination – also be sent to the National Council Presidents, to Constitutional Court and Administrative Court Presidents, as well as to various Federal Ministers and Heads of State. This will be of particular interest to these rulers if they are affected by decisions and their legislative bodies may have to respond to decisions of the Supreme Court. The fact is, the law says that there is a can. We wanted to keep them as flexible as possible, but it is practice of the Supreme Court that this report is sent to these persons. Here the Supreme Court or the judicial body has no interest in the fact that it disappears in the drawer. This novelle is intended to support the OGH so that it can be effective and rule of law in the future, as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23275	Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23296	Mr President. Federal Minister! After Mrs. President of the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights has made a precise reference to the content of the bill, I am telling you why the Green Group is joining this government proposal. It is in the front page under "Alternatives" - as an alternative if you do not decide - that: "Keeping the rules that are no longer up-to-date and unsatisfying." Ladies and gentlemen! It would be rather unreasonable for a parliamentary group not to join in with modern and unsatisfactory arrangements and to reject sensible rules. A few words on your field of activity, Mr Federal Minister, and on Mr Mainoni's comments. – After reading yesterday’s, today’s and tomorrow’s newspapers, I, Federal Minister, have the suspicion that there could be another mistrust against the Federal Minister for Justice, if it is not fast – what does it mean quickly? – if there is no immediate and immediate clarification of the actions that appear to be taking place in Austria’s judicial institutions. Mr Jarolim has already mentioned this: Four deaths in some cases more than questionable, mysterious circumstances would now have to ring all the alarm bells in your department and with your employees, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: on the subject!]] I am not only saying this out of concern about the death of people, who should now make us think in principle, but also because in this context, the media are also reporting on practices that I thought have long been abandoned in Austria's judicial institutions, such as the use of a so-called belt bed. The use of belt beds has been banned in Austria for years because it is nothing but simple torture. We are living, please, in no country in which torture is being tortured. Or do you want that? [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Indescribable! Why are you accusing the Minister?]] I do not propose anything to the Minister for Justice. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Why do you want...?]] I ask the Minister of Justice to be aware of the political responsibility of the Minister of State, not only of the political, but also of the content, and to take a public position on what we have had to learn from the media in the last few days. Believe me, Mr. Ing. Fallent, it is my pleasure to hear someone tied to a belt bed – that is, under torture – dying of a intestinal clasp, and is it a triple killer like this? Obviously, there is an incredible stubbornness when it comes to deaths in prisons. Those who work there, and in the last episode you, Mr. Federal Minister, as the head of the department... – This has to do with the Supreme Court and, of course, also with the judicial organization as a whole, because the question of conditional redundancies and early redundancies is also essential there, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: What does this have to do with the agenda?]] That is – and now I come back to it again – a very essential question, regardless of the criminal component and the relevance of who has shown guilty behaviour there. It is your job to clarify whether belt beds are being tortured in Austria's prisons. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: What does this have to do with the agenda?]] I have to say that I have the suspicion that it is not about the reports that the Council of Europe's Anti-Folter Committee – in the meantime one has to say: years ago, because it is more than a year ago – the Austrian Federal Government has transmitted, until today, has not been made available to Parliament and have only been available for a few hours or, at least, not more than two or three days on the Council of Europe's homepage – of course not in German. [[Abg. Dr. Papházy: on the matter!]] [[further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). On the matter!]] Federal Minister! I have not only asked parliamentary questions but also referred to them in personal questions at committee meetings and also in plenary. It is too serious a matter to say something about it, Mr Federal Minister! Perhaps this agreement about the judicial organisation and the wishes of the Supreme Court at the end of this day could make us so considerate that we are particularly devoted to these issues, which, unfortunately, have to be said now, clearly concern life and death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23430	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23451	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A word in advance on Mr Mainoni's statement. – Mr Mainoni, also your group, both government parties will not be able to stop our criticism of this judicial policy. It is not only related to the fact that our contentions are not taken into account, but in particular to the fact that a wrong judicial policy is being made. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who says that?]] Only today is not the time to have a fundamental debate on justice policy. [[Abg. Großruck: Who says that a judicial policy...?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to deal with the present draft, which is intended to amend the Federal Law on the Supreme Court and the Law on the Court of Justice. Federal Minister! We will agree. Mr Jarolim has raised our existing objections, but we believe that there is still an improvement, as the judicial committee has done. However, we would like to see the opportunity to deal with the law on judicial organisation in detail. Federal Minister! There has been a proposal from you to reform the judicial organisation. Mr Mainoni, it was a centralization concept, a concept, according to which, for example, in the federal state from which we both come, only four more courts and no more judicial tribunals should exist. I wonder how you will decide in this vote. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The last word is the head of state! That's the problem!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of this reform concept, which is basically a centralization concept at the expense of individual federal states – like the state of Salzburg – we will still have to debate very strongly here. Mr Federal Minister, in the form you presented, it is rejected by the Socialist Group. It means a balding. District courts are dissolved without regard to traffic geographical circumstances, for example in Salzburg the district court in Tamsweg, and the second largest city, Hallein, would no longer have a so-called regional or entrance court at all. Resistance is increasing, and the national leaders are against it. I say this with all the clarity. As in other federal states, there is a unanimous decision in the federal state of Salzburg, which requires, Minister, that at least every political district continues to have an entrance court and, of course, the state capital also has a judicial tribunal. Federal Minister! It seems strange to me that there has not been any discussion about the resolution of the Supreme Courts at all. I am curious that individual capitals will be preferred and that countries of different categories will be created. We Socialists are not averse to reforms in the field of judicial organisation. We also say that reforms are necessary, Mr Federal Minister, but this centralization concept you have presented is strictly rejected by the Socialist Group in Parliament, but also by the Salzburg Landtag – I say this because I come from this federal state.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23513	Mrs Papházy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23534	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr President, I should like to turn to you because I have seen with great displeasure and great regret the extent to which you judge the speakers.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23556	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I firmly reject that! – The handling of the Rules of Procedure is not yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23571	However, I can also reject the fact that you are Mr Mag. Mainoni points out that he has to come to the point, and...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23589	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. May. Mainoni: (in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Papházy) We don't hear them!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Go to the court organisation!]] I would ask you now to speak to the court organisation and to submit it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23648	Mr President. You turned me off the microphone first. I regret that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23666	I give you a call for order, Madam President. I would ask you to turn to matter and leave the Presidency to the chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23702	Mr Mag. On the basis of a number of examples, Mainoni has explained that the Federal Ministry of Justice's balance sheet can be seen. Necessary reform projects and forward-looking projects were undertaken and implemented by the Federal Minister Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer and his team. The individual steps of the judicial reform provide better access to the right for all citizens and greater transparency. More modern structures bring the Supreme Court to the standard European Supreme Courts, in particular with regard to internal revision, annual business distribution and the modern use of information technology. PPP, Public Private Partnership, for the benefit of customers is more than just a keyword. The reorganisation of the OGH was adopted unanimously in the judicial committee. The reorganisation of the OGH will, I hope, also be decided unanimously in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23741	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23762	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to start by referring to what Mr Magistrate has to say. Maier said. Mr deputies, you have said that you are definitely against the reform that you think is centralizing. You said that you had found with strangers that there was no talk about reforming the OLG. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say: More clearly, when I spoke to the public about all these points, one could and cannot talk about them. I can't help it if you just don't take note of public discussions. I have also offered – lastly, I believe, in the Budget Committee – all clubs, expressly also the Social Democratic Party and the Greens, that we will come to the clubs with our section on the District Court Reform. I can't help it if these offers are not taken up. I must therefore take this opportunity to inform you once again of this reform in its main guidelines. I also have to repeat what I have said in the public over and over again, namely that we are looking for and finding agreement with the national governments. There will be no reform that is not agreeable. This too has unfortunately been kept silent here and today. [[Abg. May. Maier: I didn't have time!]] They have also not said that our judicial organization dates back to 1848, has not been revised or virtually revised since this year, that it has hardly experienced cosmetic interventions in the last century, that we do not even burden two thirds of the 192 District Courts with 2.9 judges, that we are final with our organization in Europe, and that in Austria there is a population of about 32 000 in the rural area per district court, whereas in Germany on average 119 000 inhabitants – and in Bavaria even 169 000 – are part of an official court. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] You must take note of this, Mr Magistrate. Maier – and I also ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to give me your attention in this sense – that this structure of the district courts should no longer be maintained. In Mariazell it provides a population of 4,800 people. One can no longer approve of this organisational structure, because we also have to go on the path of specialization in the field of justice – and especially in the field of courts. Our offer of consensus is known – if you have listened to the public, Mr Mag. Maier – that at least we want to have court sizes that burden two judges because we have to provide 40 business branches to the District Courts, a judge alone can no longer do that, and a specialization with less than two judges is logically not possible. The Oberlandesgerichts brought you – because you heard away here too – wrongfully into discredit. The Oberlandesgerichts perform the functions of administrative associations in the field of judicial administration. They are invaluable administrators of the highest efficiency. Dissolve the Supreme Courts would be a step backwards. This is recognised by the business community and has been said by me several times in the public. I can't do that, honourable Member, if you haven't heard that. I believe that you are wrong here in all respects and that you are mobilizing in the wrong direction, because a modern court organization is necessary to meet the new challenges of the 21st century. ==References====External links== I will comment on the incidents in the judicial institutions in a timely, detailed, clear and clear manner. But since those who have criticized this do not pay attention now, I do not see in them an increased need to get this information here. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We are very interested!]] I can tell you, however, that these incidents are naturally being examined that an investigation is also pending, but I do not see any way in the present hour to publish details that are still under investigation. Public prosecutors' requests have already been filed. A medical opinion has been commissioned, but this is not yet available in the written version. I can assure you, however, that I do not think it is right to trust newspaper reports and raise the mood now, but rather that it would be appropriate to wait a few days, perhaps a few more days, to do so. You then have an objective basis for your possible criticism. Even now, on the basis of newspaper reports in the protection of immunity, which are certainly very dramatic – and these incidents deserve all critical attention – I believe that they are a step that does not serve the matter. I repeat that, of course, everything that is to be clarified will be clarified and the result will be made available to you. There will be no restraint here. But please wait with your accusations, be careful! Maybe things are a little different than you believe today, just because it's in some newspapers. Remember, too, that these law enforcement officers have a very heavy service, which deserves real attention. Of course, he also deserves criticism at times, but I am once again asking you not to criticise. What has been said by Mrs Stoisits has not been very objective, but I believe that these questions need to be addressed in an objective way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like to repeat that it has been fully developed in agreement with the Supreme Court, that all questions have been discussed with the Supreme Court, that no questions have been left open and that, in particular, the issue of the publication of the decisions is the best way to go. Judicatur and literature are published in the RIS so that it is not necessary that the evidence office of the Supreme Court also publish this literature. This claim is incomprehensible. Data protection must, of course, be observed during the publication. To keep in mind the data protection means that we must each leave it to the recognizable Senate, whether and to what extent a decision is published. This also means that we must take into account that we may not be able to publish the full text, but we must be satisfied that only the so-called guidelines are published. These guidelines serve to give judges, lawyers and other legal professions the opportunity to get to know the Judicatur and make right decisions. I thank you for the announcement that this law will be passed unanimously despite all the differences that have sometimes existed in the debate. I would also like to thank the fact that, in principle, one has agreed that there is a modernisation and a reformal step, just as we constantly strive and realize in the Ministry of Justice, even if this is still not recognised.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23830	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23852	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Members of my group have already said that we will vote in favour of this draft law. Some criticism has been expressed, but essentially we consider this novel to be progress. We also like to show that we are not a total opposition, not a fundamental opposition, as has been claimed several times today. If there are reasonable rules, we are willing to agree. However, if wrong decisions are made for ideological reasons, it is clear that we do not participate. Federal Minister! I would like to address an area of the judicial organisation which has always appeared unproblematic up to now, namely the judicial organisation in Vienna. We were very surprised that the construction of the BG Landstraße is being reversed, for financial reasons, as we have experienced. They have told us that, despite the complicated construction procedures, there will be no delay. I now have with the President of the District of the 3rd Chamber. Districts talk about it. He didn't know there was a delay. He was very surprised and, as he told me, he was appalled, and he was worried that there could be uncertainty and ambiguity. He told me that the platform on the high-speed railway is now being built in July and August and that construction can begin in September. The company Konstruktiva has already discussed with the Ministry the spatial classification and is now somewhat uncertain as to whether these agreements will keep. I believe that the establishment of this District Court is important for the two major districts of Landstraße and Simmering. This is the continuation of a reform that has already begun long ago. Therefore, I note here that it is very important that there is no delay in this regard. This is a concern that is especially important to us Viennans!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23897	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 687 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously the case. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23946	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Cap and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24013	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24040	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At a press conference on 28 October, a press conference was held on 28 October. In June of this year, Federal Chancellor Schüssel said: "Old hats remain old hats." – He referred to an article in the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" with the following title: "The volatile grand donor appoints the Austrian chancellor as a witness. Writers Door Opener Wiesheu. The arms dealer used his relations to provide business friends with Wolfgang Schüssel." This is a process which this Mr. Schreiber has tried against Thomson's company because this company is not prepared to pay the commissions from this Austrian business. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to recall the "Hut" described by Mr. Federal Chancellor as "old" I may take out briefly: In March 1995, an order was given to the company Thomson by the Austrian Federal Government or the Minister of Defense Fassleven. As early as July 1994, the relevant section at the Ministry of Defence had requested the Minister's approval. The Minister stayed for three months until he gave this consent. Again four months later the contract was awarded. Why do you think this long time of decision? The findings of the shortcomings and concerns do not come from us, but they can be found in the Court of Auditors' report, which is known to the House everywhere. – I can quote from this Court of Auditors report: However, the Court of Auditors considered that the minutes of the outcome of the meeting of the evaluation commission did not, or merely, contain any considerations regarding the decisions under consideration. - So far to lack. The Court's concerns about this award concern another matter: The Austrian contracting authorities have defined the supply requirements. There were two Offer requirements: First of all, this radar system had to be produced by the offering company in series, and secondly, the Austrian government or the Ministry of Defense demanded that these radar systems be already in testing in an army. Both conditions of this offer were not met by Thomson. But it is "old hats", ladies and gentlemen! These decisions were made to SPÖ despite the attempted lubricating payment to the SPÖ – already known. If the company tried to lubricate someone who had nothing to do with these decisions – because neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Economics were in the hands of the SPÖ – then I wonder what offer was made to those who had to make the decisions. – Of course, there is nothing to say about that. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: The Ministry of Finance was never in the hands of SPÖ?]] In August 1994, the company Thomson noticed that this mission did not seem to be on land. Mr Merk, a representative of Thomson's company, who, in the meantime, unfortunately died, turned to Mr Schreiber, who had the best name in the arms business and in these circles as a lobbyist, and asked him to play a door opener's position towards the Austrian government and the Minister for Economic Affairs. Mr Schreiber asked his friend, the Minister of Economic Affairs in Bavaria, Wisheu, to establish this link, and allegedly – as the statements say – came to pass on 16 May. Mr Merk and the Austrian Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel. [[Abg. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] The commission to the Wifo is also interesting in this context. Also in August 1994, the Minister for Economic Affairs commissioned the Wifo to investigate whether economic success could not be achieved. It is alleged that these compensation transactions were then such that military considerations no longer played a role at all. – So far as the "old hats". The new hat or the once again in fashion of the German Chancellor – in the meantime – shows itself in the following: As the article in the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" already shows, Mr. Schreiber, after Thomson had obviously not paid the commissions from this Austrian business – as has been said, the company Thomson – complained about 10 million schilling. As a witness, Mr. Schreiber, among others, calls Mr. Wisheu and the Austrian Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and lets them judge through "Süddeutsche Zeitung" – I quote: "The untruth... cannot tell anyone that applies to all witnesses who are being loaded. They must be careful not to happen to them the same as Mr. Schäuble, if you know what I mean." – I think the rulers know exactly! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: When did he say that?]] Mr. Col., that's the writer on 28 November. ==References====External links== [[Abg. But not an old hat!]] This is not an old hat, but a new one, because it is now the Austrian Chancellor's witness charge on the question of a arms business and commissions that flow in this area! What did writer mean when he says, "...if you know what I mean." Unknown term type: "%s".? . He thus meant the scandal of the ÖVP Sister Party CDU and the resignation of Mr. Schäuble. - I mean, that's sad enough and well-known. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Chancellor is being loaded as a witness in a arms commission business based on an Austrian ground business! It is still the radar systems for the Austrian federal army, which were bought by Thomson. He is invited as a witness to a Swiss court – and we read all of this in a German newspaper. – This "old hat" has actually gained new, also international dimensions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Amon: Who wrote this article?]] Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel said he didn't know him and had never talked to him before. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schreiber has never claimed to have spoken with a bowl! But in his records the name "Schüsel" appears again and again. In view of this, I believe that the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian population have a right to know why the Austrian Chancellor is called a witness in this causa. We think it is necessary to clarify these questions in our own home rather than on a European stage. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the Chancellor must also be interested in creating clarity and clearly demonstrating that everything has been done with right things. If you reject this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, you yourself will bring a sharp light on our Federal Chancellor, and I wonder how you will explain this to the people! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That you are not ashamed!]] I am convinced that, if not the ÖVP, the FPÖ will certainly be obliged to do so, because the FPÖ has already asked for the setting up of an investigation committee two years ago. So I really invite you to agree to the setting up of such a committee to clarify and clean up the Federal Chancellor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24168	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24205	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As we have already heard, the French company Thomson has received the surcharge for a billion-dollar business, namely for 22 radar plants worth the apparent sum of 1.3 billion schilling. And why did this company get Thomson the supplement? Was she the best beekeeper? Did she meet the award criteria? – The opposite was the case: The company Thomson only met two award criteria. Ladies and gentlemen! Has Thomson best cut off in an internal assessment of the Ministry of Economic Affairs? - No! The opposite was the case: She was only ranked third. Did Thomson best cut off at the official hearing of the social partners? – The opposite was the case: In this respect too, it was only ranked third. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Ask Marizzi! He certainly knows all of this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is interesting: Why did Thomson still receive the surcharge for this business? – Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, you smile like that! I don't know if that's so funny, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] Was it really just the study commissioned by Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel to the Institute of Economic Research, which gave the result for the award to Thomson? This study mentions "very complicated economic relations" between France and Austria, and this is exactly what one wanted to activate. Mr Murauer! A committee of inquiry now, six years later, offers the unique opportunity to explain whether compensation operations have actually taken place. Did these about 3 billion schillings in compensation transactions really take place? Who used these compensation transactions? What transactions have been made? How many jobs have been or have they been created? Which products were offered and purchased? What did the pre-contracts look like? Was that sufficiently verified before? – All of this would be interesting questions that could also be clarified within the framework of such an investigation committee! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am also saying this because, in connection with the purchase of interception hunters, the Austrian taxpayer has been told over and over again and that this should be almost a business when we buy new aircraft. . I therefore believe that it is important that we look at how the compensation transactions in our state are going. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming back to the main subject. There is suspicion in the room, and there are rumors that there should have been links and a conversation between Mr. Merk – a high employee of Thomson’s company – and the then Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel. - That's clear! You need to be interested in the fact that no such accusation is on the Federal Chancellor of the Republic! That must be in your interest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who was Federal Chancellor at the time, and who was Finance Minister?]] You cannot conclude, Mr Schwarzenberger, that light is coming into this affair! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Was there the agreement of the Ministry of Finance at the time?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Trust You agree with the Austrian Parliament and you agree to the establishment of such an investigation committee! [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is important that we do not tolerate shadows on our Republic! It is important in the interest of our Republic to be informed in this regard. Voices You are therefore in the interest of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24331	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24352	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The "old hat" won't be new just because Mr. Gaßner put him up! That is what I am saying at this point. I'll deal with it in the next five minutes! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Gässner has been supporting very new evidence in this matter, which has been dealt with at least three times – I am going to quote in this regard – here in the House, namely the statement of a painter in a newspaper called "South German newspaper", which refers to the obligation of truth in the stand of testimony. - I'm going to take a short look at that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Cap! – Mr Schieder is unfortunately not here. – But I still remember very well that the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" once spread falsehoods about Old Mayor Zilk and claimed that he was a Czech spy. At the time I too took the floor in the high house and defended the old mayor Zilk. And my opinion of the "quality" of this newspaper is still the same: This is not a quality newspaper, but a leaf from the Austrian government, no matter which government: the then red-black as well as the present blue-black! It doesn't matter. The "Süddeutsche Zeitung" has always understood how to disavow people from these ranks, and it continues to do so to this day. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You haven't complained for too long!]] Of course, I understand that it has a news value for colleagues Gässner and his group when he is reminded of the obligation of truth in the witness stand. I'm just calling Androsch or Sinowatz. In your ranks are those at home who have often not said the truth in court and have been condemned for doing so! This memory of truth was a message to the SPÖ – and not to the government parties! That was put into the room once. Remember that: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the previous debates: Col. Brix, who is no longer here but is not divorced because he is underqualified, but because he has made a career, has in the 83. Meeting of the National Council of the XX. [[Abg. Bures: We won the elections!]] The legislative period defends the audit report of the Court of Auditors and, on the subject of procurement in the direction of FPÖ and Greens, I quote: "In fact – you can see and talk as much as you want – there is nothing suspicious in this subcommittee, just don't want to see it like that." The SPÖ, including the approval of Mr Gaßner, Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer, was in favour of this, as far as I remember. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But this is interesting!]] Mr. Leikam says in the 110. A meeting of the XX. GP on this alleged process – I quote –: "I understand that there has been some disappointment in the opposition ranks since this test report – which lasted over three years. What you would have liked to have, namely the proof that the government parties – then SPÖ and ÖVP – " were financially involved in these procurement operations, was simply not successful. In each individual partial report, the Court of Auditors has clearly ruled out this area, namely payments to the parties, and has noted that no illegal payments have been detected in any form." I do not see Mr Leikam now. In any case, however, there was also a welcome from the SPÖ. Leikam also said: "It is completely indifferent whether it is about socks or radar systems, in each case the procurement operations must be handled correctly. That, I believe, is an important point and an important insight that we have been able to draw from this Court of Auditors report." Once again, the SPÖ is congratulating us, i.e. Mr Brix, Mr Gaßner, Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer and the whole group. Don't forget that! No matter whether it's about socks or radar systems! Whether it's red, blue or black socks! Do you have a short memory, Mr. Gaßner? I'll remind you of something else. - In the 6th century. Meeting of XXI. GP, that is, in this GP, Mr Brix – I quote – said: " Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not yet agree to this request for an investigation by the Vice-President and the Foreign Minister, just because we still want to wait a little bit for the thick material that will certainly still come from Germany." Today, as a "dict material", you present to us a report from the "South German newspaper", a Swiss procedure and the statement of a painter who reminds your group of the obligation to bear witness. – That’s just too little for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24443	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24464	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Why do I speak as a clubman in this matter? – Because this is simply a cheap maneuver, which absolutely discredits the intention of the opposition to a right to set up an investigation committee as a minority right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] You did not give the slightest indication of a matter! They make for the fifth time an untenable claim, which does not become more substantial by repetition. I do not want to repeat what Mr Graf has done, but he is absolutely right. There is no even smoke, and therefore there is no fire! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I can only tell you what Mr Schreiber said about what you said about social democracy. January 2000 said: The thing with the bowl is absolute nonsense. If this continues, soon the whole world will know why there are so many Austrian whites. - Quote. [[Abg. Bures: In this thing you have no pure conscience!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Many of the delegates in the rear banks of the SPÖ may be infected by their own shame and believe all that is said. But I have to tell the club that she knows what she's doing. One cannot, on the one hand, want to have the minority right to set up an investigation committee – and at the same time in a frivolous manner without any evidence of any facts, so that there may be a three-line report in the APA tomorrow, discredit this desire! "Semper aliquid haret": There's always something going on. And there remains something to be said about me, namely the distrust of such groups. You will no longer have me as advocates for minority rights to set up an investigation committee on your side! That's over! [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's been over for a long time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I cannot support the interests of a group that supports such cheap things, I do not know what is behind them, and five times I repeat the same things without the slightest spark of evidence. The Court of Auditors has examined this. And you from the SPÖ are not too sorry to endanger your superior concern with such cheap kittens! – No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24543	The last speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24564	Mr President. Mr Klubobmann Khol, I would now draw the reverse, then he would have to say as follows: Now that, as I believe, for more than a year, no request has been made for the setting up of an investigation committee, it should be assumed that you will continue to stand up for the establishment of an investigation committee within the meaning of minority law with a similar fiery energy as now. I was not convinced by your attitude in the many presidential sessions either, because there was every means right for you to break down dates on which preliminary discussions would have been on this subject, in order not to say: to postpone ordinary and plump. - That's how it looked! If you now officially adopt, as you say, the idea you have so far said, that the Committee of Inquiry could also become a minority right in the Austrian Parliament, it is probably not credible! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] You're just as plausible! I would like to refer to my colleague, Count, for he has made a total sense of nonsense! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! An order call!]] I'm sorry to have to say that! . It brings a Court of Auditors report and the outcome of a subcommittee and acts as if these Causen were directly linked to the present. But that's smoothly wrong! Four partial reports by the Court of Auditors have dealt with procurement procedures in themselves, but certainly not with lubricating payments and similar accusations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] They make allegations against better knowledge, because the Court of Auditors cannot examine such a thing and has written it on the first page of its report. That is logical, for who will be so stupid in a ministry, and will issue a proof so that the Court of Auditors can come and find that 5 million schillings have flown on lubricating money! This does not even seem to be the case in your group. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Subcommittee, on whose report you have supported, has exclusively conducted a debate on the nature and nature of the compensation transactions, albeit in part with regard to this particular case. At the time, at least in part, we still held the debate together. This has also led to the conclusion that the "F" at the end of this long journey itself that one would actually need an investigation committee for the clarification of the accusations that are now presented by another side. But now you just want to clean yourself up, but that was too cheap, I tell you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not understand why there must always be new facts, as has been apostrophized here. The old situation is not as thin as you do! It's not that thin! – Mr Gaugg, my speaking time is not enough to deal with your questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] But you don't understand so much about this topic that you really can't see why you're stuck in there all the time! In any case, the facts go far beyond what was listed here. Thomson CSF has not met even two essential tender criteria and has nevertheless come into play: Neither Thomson's device was in serial production at the time, nor was it introduced by any army. But these were the conditions of the Ministry of Defence, and you've bent them in retrospect! As regards the valuation of the business volumes – so-called compensation transactions, it is better to say: Air business – very well hand-held in the Ministry of Schüssel – "hand-held" as synonym for "manipulated": There has been an evaluation commission that I don't necessarily have to go into, but there are others too, there have been several evaluation procedures in the Ministry of Schüssel, and all had Thomson CSF in bad place! All of them, all without exception! A few days before the decision was made, the Thomson contact with a bowl has been made on the basis of writers and Wiesheu. If that is not enough for you to be able to ask at least a few essential questions in a committee of inquiry, I do not know! So without it, it's not like you're trying to present this. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] One last: A year and a half ago, this whole causa was virulent. That's right. That was at the time when the ÖVP was still alluding to "a third place is a third place". Literally smoke-callat – we can welcome them back to the house today –: "A third place is a third place." It was clear what that meant: The ÖVP is in opposition. We asked you at the time to disclose the party donations of the ÖVP. With this disclosure you have done exactly the same "honority" as in the statement that a third place leads to the opposition role of the ÖVP. - That should be enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24650	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Cap and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2001-07-04-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24686	I am still announcing that, in connection with the self-employed application 463/A, a publishing house of 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para., on the implementation of a special act of conduct of the Court of Auditors regarding the appointment and appointment of Supervisory Boards and Boards and the associated contractual arrangements. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. Inflow President Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn: I also announce that in today's session, self-employed requests 463/A to 479/A have been tabled. Questions 2629/J to 2656/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 5th. July 2001, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
