ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5033	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you to take the places and open the 57. National Council meeting during this legislative period. The official protocols of 55. Meeting of 31. January 1st and January 1st. ==References====External links== Sitting of 1st and 2nd Chamber February 2001 has remained in the Parliamentary Directorate and without any opposition, and is therefore considered approved. For today's sitting as prevented, Members Haller, Schwemlein and Zellot are reported. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5067	I have received the notification from the Federal Electoral Authority that Mrs Annemarie Reitsmer has waived her mandate and that Mr Stefan Prehauser has been appointed to the National Council in her place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new Member will make his fishing observation with the words "I vow". I should like to ask Mr Auer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to read out the formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5094	"They are promised, unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5109	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5125	I warmly welcome the new honourable Member in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5152	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I may refer to the written notice pursuant to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure have been distributed in the House. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5421	I also announce that the Sixth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5443	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question of Members Glawischnig, friends and friends to the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations concerning the health risk of consumers by means of control chaos and the protection of right-wing breakers before the entry into the agenda under the order number 1996/J. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure by which this urgent question will be raised at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5469	I should also like to inform the House that Mr Grünewald has requested that the Financial Committee report on the request 299/A (E), which he himself has submitted, be entitled to a period of 30 days with regard to the removal from the planned taxation of accident pensioners. ==References== In this context, there is a desire to hold a short debate on this deadline request. As we have just determined that a urgent request will be made at 3 p.m., the short debate will begin when the urgent request is over. The vote on the request for a time limit will take place at the end of the short-term debate. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5496	I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to adopt at first reading the Government's proposal concerning the Federal Finance Act for 2002 and investments. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5527	As far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 4, 8 to 10, 14 to 17, 18 to 20, 21 and 22 of the agenda. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's what it's supposed to be. Let's go into the agenda. I begin by welcoming the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is taking part in this meeting. Welcome, President! [[General condolences.]] Agenda item 7
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5566	With regard to Agenda item 7 of today's meeting – Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 370/A – a deadline for reporting by the National Council has expired at a later date, so that the submission must at least be negotiated. The question of whether the proposal itself is being negotiated or the Committee's report, which was completed yesterday, but which is not yet 24 hours, is a difficult one. I would also like to decide this question of Rules of Procedure in response to an earlier case, namely from 1997, in such a way that we are negotiating the Committee's report ourselves. The deadline has expired and a committee report is under way. I think we want to choose this procedure, and I will do it in this sense. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5592	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates: Accordingly, a day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: The SPÖ has a total speaking time of 195 minutes, liberals and ÖVP of 145 minutes each and the greens of 115 minutes. That is what the House is about, and I am asking if there are any objections to it. - That's not the case. That's what it's decided to do. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5626	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I can give the Minister of Finance the floor for his budget speech. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5650	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President of the National Council! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[The SPÖ representatives hold tables with the title "You have also voted for the taxation of accident pensions!" on which another Member of the Liberal and Reformist Party is mentioned as an address.]] The 2002 budget estimate, which I may present to you today, is of historical importance in several respects. First: For the first time in the past 28 years – ladies and gentlemen, I repeat – we will have been showing a zero deficit for the entire state, for the first time since the early 1970s. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Our common goal: not a re-indebtedness of the general state! This will become a reality as early as 2002. No more debt, we assume our responsibility for our country and our population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly – and I am very happy about this when I think about previous debates here in the house –: The 2002 Budgetary Accompanying Act contains no new burdens. We have thus reached a halt on the 2002 budget. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And so I can tell you today with Bert Brecht: The efforts of the mountains are God's thanks to us, but we are waiting for the efforts of the level in which it is necessary to continue the renovation of public budgets consistently and to implement the savings targets in real terms. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: That's what the Brecht...!]] Thirdly, This is the first Federal proposal we are making on the basis of our common European currency, the euro, as from 1. January 2002 will be in hand, have created. In any case, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: We are pursuing a very clear objective, we have the will to change and also the courage to achieve these objectives, we are ending the more than 30-year debt policy. We'll do it well again! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is a huge milestone in Austrian financial and budgetary policy, so that the Austrian population can now again have confidence in a new and reasonable financial policy. For stability and sustainability. For Austria's creditworthiness in the international financial markets and for the creditworthiness of Austrian companies. For monetary stability and lower interest rates. For growth and full employment. For an attractive economic location and credible social security. For solidarity and social justice. – This Federal Government makes future policy for Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! The draft 2002 Federal Estimate provides revenue of 57.5 billion y and expenditure of 58.3 billion j, thus providing an administrative net deficit of around 829 million y or 0.4 percent of gross domestic product or a Maastricht deficit of around 1.6 billion j or 0.7 percent of gross domestic product. As a result, the estimated deficit in 2002 is around 1.6 billion y below the 2001 federal estimate. For the first time, we will no longer show a general government deficit, we will put a balanced budget into reality in 2002. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This presupposes that the countries, cities and municipalities can actually achieve the desired delivery surplus of 0.75% of the gross domestic product. Substantial improvements to the respective budgets are required. Since the Pact between the Federal Government and the Länder and cities and municipalities has been negotiated and agreed together, I am convinced that the Heads of State and Mayor will implement and also achieve this joint commitment to the consolidation of the budgets and the achievement of the new surplus target. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government’s personnel expenditure in 2002 fell by around 83 million y compared to 2001, although the salary agreement of October 2000 agreed to increase Federal Employees’ income by 0.8 percent for 2002 and the 2001 salary balance to a full extent on 2002. As early as 2000, staff expenditure was around 65 million y below the estimated amount. These are tangible successes due to first successful structural measures in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] Subject-matter expenditure falls from 48.1 billion ye in 2001 to 47.7 billion j in 2002. If we put public expenditure in relation to gross domestic product in the year 2002, it is recognised that we have managed to reduce public expenditure to the lowest level since 1993. We not only call it spending-side reorganisation of the budget, we also make it very concrete – because we urgently need room for the future security of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! The world around us has changed dramatically, and this change continues. Globalisation and Internet technology create more competition, i.e. more pressure on producers, lower prices and a transparent and globally accessible offer for consumers. Just as our companies and their employees have to claim to compete with global competition day after day, the entire economic and social system of our country is on the international test stand and has to compete with the other countries in terms of cost and quality of performance. Bench Marks, i.e. performance standards, are also defined for the state. Value destruction through insufficient economic efficiency of state institutions will be measured internationally in the future. Performance assessments, as we have them with rating agencies in the international banking sector, are increasingly also available for state institutions – whether we want them or not. These location assessments, e.g. through the World Competitiveness Report or the World Economic Forum, increasingly influence the investment decisions of international companies. We must not let these developments fall asleep! On the contrary: The attractiveness of the Austrian site for domestic and foreign investors, the development of our companies and our labour market as well as the cost of our national debt are inseparable. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Against this background, since accession to the European Union, Austrian budgetary policy has had a double task: The budget, as an expression of the policy strategy of this Federal Government, must strive to improve the life situation of Austrians and, at the same time, contribute to an optimal European economic policy overall strategy. Our foreign exchange must therefore be: Higher prosperity and quality of life for Austria as part of a pan-European and civil policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have every reason to be satisfied with our current account: At the beginning of last year, there were some doubts as to whether we would be able to comply with the budget targets set and decided by the High House with the aim of reducing the overall debt from 4.96 billion ye in 1999 to 3.97 billion j. Today, no more serious analyst is doubting our commitment to bring our country's finances to a sustainable settlement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have not only managed to meet the objectives of the year 2000, but have exceeded them more than clearly. We have not made about 3.97 billion ye new debts, but we have already been able to reduce the re-indebtedness to 2.85 billion j in the first year of our activity. Through a consistent and strict budget implementation, we have been able to reduce new debt to my predecessor by almost 2.11 billion ye, compared to our own demanding targets by around 1.1 billion ye. We cut off by almost 30 percent better than expected! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Austria is back on track in budgetary policy. Measured according to EU criteria, our Maastricht deficit for the year 2000 is only 2.36 billion ye. This is 1.1 percent of gross domestic product, after 2.1 percent in 1999 – much better than expected by the European Commission. By reducing the deficit, almost 72.7 million y of interest on the federal financial debt can be saved per year. These are important and successful signals of confidence building and security to our population. We are obliged to do a job: to deal with taxpayers' money sparingly and wisely. We have already provided proof of this in the first year: Austria was able to release the red lantern in the European Union. We are no longer the final light in the European Union. – Such a financial policy can be seen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Eder: Who pays this?]] This first major step towards a balanced government budget is accompanied by excellent key economic data: We have the third lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Only small Luxembourg and the Netherlands have a slightly better value than Austria. About 50,000 more people are now in employment than was the case under the previous Federal Government. Our companies have benefited from the favourable conditions, created many jobs, and thus we have been able to over-fulfil the objective of the "National Action Plan for Employment", which is "100 000 more employees", already last year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Inflation will be the fourth lowest in the European Union this year. Austrian direct investment in other countries is significant. Above all, our Eastern European neighbours are the investment goal of our companies. This is very important for the central economic and political importance of Austria in the context of the European Union's planned enlargement. But we also need direct investment from other countries in Austria. Nothing can prove the attractiveness of our business location and the diligence and willingness of our employees more than international investment in Austria. The new investment volume of foreign companies in Austria, created by the Austrian Business Agency, has reached a value of 554 million y in 2000 and could thus be doubled compared to 1999. In total, the Austrian Business Agency, together with the regional settlement companies, has supported 132 companies in their settlement in Austria last year. The number of new jobs has also increased significantly by 5,420. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And this investment boom will continue this year too: Telekom companies will invest at least 1.5 billion y in the development of broadband networks in the coming years. BMW will invest 72.7 million y in the Steyr site this year. Magna will continue its investment activity and will use 218 million y to further strengthen its activities in Austria. Innovative foreign small and medium-sized enterprises such as to mention just a few examples: the German company Kabel New Media, the Swiss company Mediphore Biotechnology, the Swedish company Icon Medialab invests in Austria; others like the US company Broadvision are setting up their Eastern Europe headquarters for e-commerce in Austria. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress one thing: The backbone of our economic power, our many Austrian companies continue their success and will secure hundreds of thousands of jobs with an estimated investment volume of 48.5 billion j in 2001 and create many new ones and thus demonstrate their confidence in the financial and economic policies of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Private companies' investments reached 22.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2000, which is the highest value in the European Union. Last year, some 24,000 new companies were set up in Austria, which is 9.6 percent more than in 1999. At present, nearly twice as many young entrepreneurs are active in Austria when this was the case at the beginning of the nineties. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Investments of 48.5 billion y of local companies and 24 000 newly founded companies! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't appreciate that high enough. This gives us optimism, which gives us confidence because risk willingness and trust in our own skills are the prerequisites of a prosperous economy. I say a sincere thank you to these companies and their employees! They are the ones that generate taxes, they are the ones that create jobs, they are the future of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The total exports of our companies have also reached new record values in the last year, with an average increase of 10.9 percent, in the exports of goods alone by 15.9 percent, and will for the first time exceed the 1 000 billion schilling threshold, i.e. 72.7 billion y. The growth of our economy in 2000 was at 3.3 percent well above the long-term Austrian average. Compared to 1999, economic performance increased by 6.2 billion y in real terms. In other words, each worker has created an average of 1,760 y more value added. The number of persons employed reached a new peak of 3,505 million. This is an increase of about 25,800 people in employment. The increase in women's employment, which has increased by 23 700, is particularly encouraging. The number of unemployed has fallen by almost 27,000 to the lowest level since 1992. The number of long-term unemployed was reduced by 40 percent compared to 1999. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I now also have the latest figures, which show an increase in employed persons by 26 449 compared with the previous year despite the forecast weakening of the economy for the end of January 2001. This is, of course, not alone, but also deserved by the new Federal Government. I therefore say to you, out of complete conviction: We're on the right path! And despite this excellent economic situation, this federal government will not be content, but – quite the contrary! – strengthen and actively expand design spaces. Our task is to identify weaknesses and problems at a time of good development and to develop solutions. We are a reform partnership that aims to bring Austria inflation-free growth and full employment. Not the past, but the present and above all the active design of the future are our drive. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We do not make budget consolidation a self-evident and certainly not to satisfy the European Union: A new economic policy of the Austrian Federal Government is behind the consolidation programme, to which the Federal Government, countries and municipalities contribute. This is aimed at building a long-term sustainable framework and the associated mechanisms – and not at constantly changing between the electoral sugar "tax reform" and the subsequent savings package of markets, businesses and consumers in constant high-voltage and uncertainty. Our consumers, our employees and our economy need a reliable and affordable policy, need stable framework conditions, need real prospects for a new start and an open look into the future through the break-up of clustered structures. This is the task of politics every day, every minute. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why we also need to rapidly reduce the huge debt mountain from the past, so that the more than 7 billion ye interest rates for public debt do not open up every room for design and endanger the future of our children and grandchildren. This task has no way to go. It does not help to slow him down and become more tedious, because this only increases interest rate pressure further – and at the end of the day we have to pay him back even more. It didn't deserve our youth. However, if the opposition prefers to continue its old way towards "more debt", it should say this openly, now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch is holding up a board towards SPÖ, with the inscription: "You have also voted for 2 000 000 000 000 S of debt!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – That was actually rhetorical said, I didn't expect your outing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In any case, our motto will continue: Fast and common budget consolidation to secure our future! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am also aware, however, that this fiscal consolidation of our population also requires great victims. It is difficult for accident pensioners to accept that their pensions are now taxable and therefore, despite a partly significant increase in accident pensions, they have less available income than before. [[Several of the SPÖ's MEPs are once again keeping the panels mentioned above up.]] There are cases of hardship that I can't deny, even though she didn't intend to. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] "Re-government" means also to recognize such cases of hardness and to be willing to bring about a new regulation here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Our goal will be to keep low incomes in a bad way and thus to exercise social justice. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At the same time, we were able to create an offensive for disadvantaged groups of people with disabilities, especially for increased integration into the labour market. This is also recognized by: Solidarity with the socially weak is an important concern for us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schasching holds a tablet with the inscription: "Mr Gilbert Trattner! You too have voted in favour of the taxation of accident pensions.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Our pensioners would like to see a stronger increase in their long-term pensions. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Even though stronger increases are ever better, we can be proud to have negotiated a very good conclusion, especially for less-income pensioners. All pensions were increased by 0.8 percent in 2001. In addition, there was a one-time payment of 1 percent of an annual pension in February, but a maximum of 116 y. Thus, the average pension increase is 1.5 percent, with smaller pensioners being better placed. These can expect an increase in the net pension by up to 1.8 percent. I would like to stress that pensioners even receive about 160 y more in the case of a reference of 872 j in 2001. We stand to our promise to secure pensions and to make increases especially to small pensioners. That is living social justice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! Even John Kenneth Galbraith has recognized "what is economically correct and what is politically opportunistic is rarely identical"! But to bear true responsibility also means to do that for the common and positive future essential and essential, even if not everyone likes it. To this end, this reform and renewal government acknowledges itself! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress that the way in which we consolidate our path of consolidation pursues a very clear objective: First: Rehabilitation must be carried out mainly on the expenditure side. The population has a right to a slim and economical state. Secondly, Fairness, social justice and social security are our main concern. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, A minimum burden on the population, according to the principle: Whoever deserves more, who is more rich, should also contribute more to the rehabilitation of state finances! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] How have we actually succeeded in implementing these objectives? – In comparison, I would like to use the savings package 1996/97. At that time, 3 million people were taxed on income. Even a worker with a relatively low monthly income of 1,090 y or 15 000 S was charged with 42.9 j or 590 s. Of the 3.5 million active payees, 2.6 million are not affected by income tax. The quoted worker with the monthly income of 1,090 y is not taxed by the consolidation measures imposed by us when he makes use of the additional pension provision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Or we compare the purchasing power of the population in 1999, under the past federal government, with the purchasing power of the population in 2002, taking into account the tax reform of 2000 financed by us, all the consolidation measures imposed, the childcare allowance and the real net wage increase. The result is: The bottom three of the incomes will have a total of around 690 million ye more in purchasing power in the direct comparison of the year 1999 with 2002. The lower 75 percent of the income earners will benefit to an extent of approximately 1.64 billion y from the measures of this Federal Government. These figures probably speak for themselves. We are fully in line with this budgetary policy. It is we who reach the redistribution from top to bottom. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It is we who show that social justice is compatible with the path to zero deficit. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So you see what can be achieved with a responsible budgetary policy. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Your budget policy is irresponsible!]] The thesis, zero deficit and social justice would be the square of the circle, we have overcome with this budget. We prove that it is also different: This budget makes the square of the circle a line in which consolidation and social justice unite. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, since the Prophet has no special claim to credibility in his own cause, I am allowed to quote an analysis by Professor Herbert Kofler: He says: "In my opinion, the only key point is to consider the extent to which the citizens are affected by the measures..." And on top of that: "The less the citizens are affected by consolidation, the more elegant and professional the renovation is. This means that the quality and quality of consolidation must be measured." – An analysis that we all can only agree fully. And now it's especially important: What is Professor Kofler's conclusion? I can quote him again: "If a total consolidation of 7.3 billion j 5.5 billion j does not or is only subordinate to taxpayers or citizens, this is an excellent consolidation rate and quality of consolidation in the international comparison." [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With this positive assessment of our actions, Professor Kofler is not an exception – quite the contrary! Professor Felder of the Institute for Higher Studies concludes in an examination of the distribution effects of the consolidation programme of the Austrian Federal Government: "In the case of revenue-based measures, workers and businesses are taxed at about the same level. To the extent that these measures are compatible with the individual income groups, the Institute considers that the middle and top-thirds bear the main burden." The Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, Dr. Horst Koehler, also welcomes consolidation in principle as well as the Chairman of the State Debt Committee, Professor Helmut Frisch, or as well as Professor Streissler and also Professor Kramer of the Economic Research Institute. I therefore very much regret that, despite the professional approval of respected experts and despite the international recognition of our financial and budgetary policies, the representatives of the opposition put party policy ahead of the objective assessment and the welfare of our country. Therefore, with Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, I can tell you again very clearly: "It's medicine, not poison, what I'm giving you!" [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Our medicine will make the sick finances healthy – for the benefit of the population! [[Prolonged lively condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is exactly what, ladies and gentlemen, was also ours by the Council of European Finance Ministers and the Commission of the European Union in the course of the debate on our stability programme on 12 November. It is impressively confirmed for the years 2000 to 2004. Let's remember: A year ago, Austria was massively criticized for its financial policy in presenting the stability programme at that time. We were the final light in the European Union. The European Union, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, all criticized the old Federal Government's deficit policy with more than 160 billion y in financial debt and an annual deficit of more than 2% of the gross domestic product. Only one year later, we presented a new stability programme, which for the first time for a long time contains clear targets for our state finances. It is not the continuation of last-classity and the further massive indebtedness of our country, but the setting of new and ambitious goals that lead us to the solid middle of financial policy in the Union, that is what we want. That's why we are! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Our goals are: A stability programme, which aims at not 1.3 percent re-indebtedness of gross domestic product in 2003, as planned by my predecessor, but a balanced budget, that is, our zero deficit already in 2002. A turning point in financial policy, which was expressly praised by Pedro Solbes, Commissioner responsible, as a "spectacular improvement". A new Austrian financial policy, which is welcomed and supported by European finance ministers with great respect and great recognition. The presentation of our new programme has calmed the financial markets and restored confidence in Austrian financial and economic policies. This is what I am about, is the Federal Government, you and with us all Austrians can be proud. That can really be seen! This is our common success for Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! Future security and "rerule" mean redefining the role of the state. This new state should not be defined by means of funding flows, but by the developments it is starting, by the opportunities it opens up through attractive framework conditions, and by means of innovative solutions which it holds ready for all the forthcoming problems. Against this background, it is said, not only to spend money, even though many politicians have seen this as their main activity in the past, according to the motto of Mark Twain: "From now on I will only spend as much as I can, even if I have to borrow money for it"! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Edlinger is already thinking about it! Home assignment for Edlinger!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But in reality it is a lot more: The modern state will develop from a paying state to a possible state, into a state that introduces and promotes innovations that create the prerequisite for the detachment of the creativity of fellow citizens, who intervenes in a guiding and moderate manner, which corrects the market forces where they become the harm of people and competition. The modern state is a state of emancipation, which enables citizens to shape their lives according to their own ideas, while respecting the principle of solidarity is of great importance [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For many politicians it is now necessary to think: not only to be concerned or viewers, who either applauds or criticizes, but also to be an actor, that is, an active designer. For future-proof policy means giving citizens pure wine and innovatively looking for new prospects for an attractive future. This also means giving rise to the maximum of joy of use, innovation and motivation of fellow citizens with low financial resources, but also increasing the use of creativity and will. I am particularly concerned about the emancipation of citizens of state premeditation, their involvement in policy formulation and implementation, the promotion of their active participation in solving our common problems. We also need to strengthen civil society. If we give the citizens back their state, we will motivate our people to participate actively! We are all Austria, we also make our contribution to it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Future security also means recognizing that one cannot regulate and lay down everything and anyone by law. For me, ensuring the future, changing and changing of incentives is what it means. Performance must be rewarded again. The gap between income from work and unemployment insurance must increase without limiting the protection character of unemployment insurance. [[Mr Silhavy and Mr Vergestnich.]] In addition to the incentives in the tax and transfer system, we also need to develop a new positive and forward-looking thinking – a thinking that does not see only negative in every change, which does not always know how it does not work and why it does not work, which does not make everyone else accountable for being bad to themselves. [[Abg. Nürnberger: The poorest of the poorest!]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Get unemployed!]] We need a thought that recognizes change as important and necessary, a thought that radiates optimism and design power, a thought that signals courage because it dares unknown and new things, a thought that honours and promotes performance and willingness to use. Only such a rethinking will open up prospects for us, will equip us with confidence, for only those who trust in the change have the courage to make it. This is my strategy of securing the future for Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] High house! Future security is inseparably linked to the quality of public finances. A new quality of these finances must be our goal. This new quality will then be given if we manage to make public budgets viable in the long term, if we succeed in promoting the goal of increased employment, even more people in employment, if we succeed in developing a knowledge-based society and making our country ready for the information age, and if we are able to contribute to growth and prosperity not for a few but for all in our country. [[Abg. Nuremberger: The Jörg will tell you what you need to do again!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Quality of finances also means having a budget that is intended to significantly strengthen Austria's economy towards innovation and dynamics. In the sense of Josef Schumpeters, we want a micro-economically oriented increase in dynamics and competitiveness at the expense of a rather macroeconomicly oriented demand control. Schumpeter sees in his work the role of the "Dynamiser", that is, the entrepreneur, as central. I would like to understand this point further: For me, an entrepreneurial person is one who has the courage to change, who has the courage to innovate, and we need exactly such qualities in the enterprises, we need in public administration when we speak of proximity to citizens and service mentality. So you see, in Austria it has been recognized quite a long time ago that innovation and creativity are the basis for growth and we have to turn to the institutional roots of these processes when we talk about employment and growth. We can look back on a long tradition of economic research and teaching at world level. To actively develop and implement this heritage must be a cultural concern of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new quality of finance is perhaps the most evident in our offensive policy on education, research and development and infrastructure. With the 8 billion j planned for 2002 for education, this Federal Government has succeeded in providing almost 500 million y more for education within three years. As measured at the low level of expenditure on education in the former Federal Government in 1997, this means an increase in educational expenditure by 1.2 billion y, taking into account the shift in competence in the clinical extra effort. This area is therefore at our heart because every investment in training is a multiplier for the economy, culture and performance of a society. We must also respond to the globalisation of markets and technological change. As a result, innovation and knowledge become more and more a significant source of prosperity and, last but not least, the source of income differences between countries, between their citizens, between businesses. Especially in this context, the latest developments in the university field are very encouraging. In the winter semester 2000/2001 there were about 230 000 students at the universities and art universities. Approximately 10,000 people attended a vocational college last year. There are currently 67 courses funded by the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, twelve of which were newly approved from the winter semester 2000/2001. Innovation and research and development support and good training are key points for a future knowledge society. In this sense, we have planned a computer billion, which is more than 70 million y, which will finance a better equipment of schools with computer hardware and software as well as teacher training in the IT sector. Another important point is: More about the autonomy of universities and schools is a new organisational framework. This also includes increased competition between individual training institutions. We want to position our schools and higher schools internationally in such a way that Austria becomes a sought-after and recognized teaching and study location. I understand this under the guarantee of the future for our country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of the discussion on the introduction of the study contributions, some have probably wrongly polemized that we would consolidate on the part of the students at the expense of the students. – The opposite is the case: We renew from scratch the infrastructure at our universities as well as the quality of teaching and training. In this context, I can also refer to an active research policy of the Federal Government, which devoted the third "reform dialogue for Austria" to research. The aim of this dialogue is to define the cornerstones and priorities for Austria's future research policy. To this end, there will be a continuation of discussions after Easter, where the Council for Research and Technology Development will present its proposals for a research and technology strategy for Austria. The basis for this is that the Austrian research rate will be increased to 2 per cent by 2002 and 2.5 per cent by 2005. In order to support this ambitious target of the Federal Government, a research and development offensive programme amounting to an additional 509 million y was already provided for three years in the 2001 budget. As Austria has a very high public share in research and development expenditure in international comparison with countries such as Sweden or Finland, the research and development offensive programme has given particular attention to the incentive effect for the private sector. But, of course, security of the future is also a question of infrastructure. We have also understood how to significantly improve the quality of public finances. While the Federal Government's infrastructure expenditure, including the disbursed companies, amounted to 2.1 billion y in 1999, it was successful in increasing it to 2.7 billion j in 2002. This will finally allow a number of long-term projects to be implemented. With the high multiplier effect of construction services, we will also be able to produce large employment effects – an important investment programme for the benefit of the Austrian population. We maintain and build the streets and high-level rail network, build new schools and renovate the universities. We look forward to ensuring mobility on our roads, but also ensuring a high-performance public transport system. The citizen should know that he has something of it when he pays taxes and taxes! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! Austria needs just as dynamic companies as in the United States of America. There a new generation of idea-rich entrepreneurs and risk-taking investors have created the "New Economy". This has led to very high economic growth for nine years. Although this boom is now falling, it remains that the US's advantage over Europe has increased by 10 percentage points in five years and unemployment has fallen to exemplaryly low levels. The US economic performance in 2000 was 57 percent higher than the EU average and the US unemployment rate is half higher than the European Union. The New Economy creates high-quality jobs and is particularly research-intensive. It stimulates investment. The New Economy is also a response to the challenges of the European Union's eastern enlargement. Therefore, we must do everything we can to restructure our economy towards the New Economy. More business start-ups in these future areas, new high-quality and well-paid jobs must be our goal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In order to stabilise the success of consolidation and secure the future of our country, reforms are essential for the major expenditure areas. From this point of view, I would like to highlight some of the Federal Government's main areas of work, and I would like to show you how a policy whose maximum benefit is for the citizen breaks down structures and reforms the government's main expenditure programmes. The administrative reform must implement a resolution of our two-class society in Austria: here the private sector exposed to competition every day and there a protected sector with our chambers, social security companies, federal, state and municipal staff. The task of these employees is to provide classic services based on highly specialized know-how. The most important management task of such knowledge-based institutions would be to promote the creativity, efficiency and motivation of these employees. The answer to this challenge is: hierarchical line structure, lack of staff and organisation development, anachronistic Pragmatization, lifelong equal work and a massively impeded right of civil service and pension rights, which are still in the hands of the k.&.k.-holiness system. We will reform and change this system with innate anti-performance. A new uniform right of service, which brings equal opportunities to all employees in Austria, is in preparation. The Pragmatization of public servants must be abolished as a general principle, only in a number of particularly important areas will it be necessary to protect officials from possible political arbitrariness. A pension right for all, i.e. the harmonisation of different systems in Austria must be our goal. For this we will also start a constructive dialogue with the trade union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] More flexibility and performance orientation, the change from private to public economy and vice versa, the permeability of systems: This is the reform response of a competitive and innovative state. Our people have a right to such a slim and performance-oriented state. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edellinger: ÖAAB does not praise!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We have initiated a wealth of strategicly important projects to meet this objective. First: Ms. Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer has already set up a task reform commission under the direction of Professor Raschauer last year. In principle, this will consider which tasks a service and service State must perform for its population. Double-differences between Ministries and federal and state governments need to be identified and abolished. Secondly, In As a result of the financial compensation, the joint establishment of a Commission of the Federal Government and the Länder was decided to simplify and improve the procedures between the local authorities. Consequenced criticism of tasks, better allocation of competence, more efficient and flatter administrative structures and, above all, real quality of service for citizens are the objectives of this group. This will achieve savings on the federal side of 250 million ye per year. Thirdly, With Arthur Anderson, an internationally experienced and highly accepted consultant has emerged as the winner of a call for tenders aimed at a budget reform with clear priorities in all Federal Ministries. While resort-specific projects are intended to show savings potential in the individual ministries, the focus of the cross-sectoral projects is on the reform of support processes, especially in the presidencies, the development of an IT strategy for the entire federal administration and the future management of the administration according to the principles of the New Public Management. Fourth: Budgetary law brings together profit and resource responsibilities. Global budget with a service mandate and effective incentive and sanctions mechanisms is the basic formula for an effective and citizen-oriented budget law. The sustainable renovation of the budget is thus achieved through the definition of permanently new rules for the game. One of the main tasks is to question all expenditure of the State for the benefit and benefit of the taxpayer. Only by itself are the definition and control of the state's products and services as high as possible for citizens. Fifth, you open a bottle Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel has commissioned the implementation of the existing laws with the aim of clarifying and simplifying the relevant legal instruments. Sixteenths: Essential parts of the purchasing volume of the individual ministries will be bundled in a new procurement company, which will be established in the first half of the year, in order to achieve significant savings that will primarily be made possible through better purchasing conditions, but also more efficient procurement processes. Our goal is to save almost 43.6 million ye a year. Seventeenths: the reform of teacher service law. We will introduce a four-year-old annual working-time model for teachers at general school compulsory schools, a step for which more than 70 percent of teachers have taken part in an initial vote, a first important step for more performance orientation, for more time spent by the teacher in teaching, for more time spent by the teacher in the school, and thus more time for more contact of teachers with their students. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It saves money, but at the same time it improves the training of children. I thank our teachers that they were willing to go this way with us. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Eighth: Of course, we will move forward in the field of eGovernment with the aim of offering all the official channels online in the future. With all these reform projects, we have a big goal: Modernising public administration in such a way that it is in line with the principle of professional customer orientation, an efficient service mentality based on modern information technologies. We will reduce the number of public servants by at least 11 000 during this legislative period, and at least 4,000 will be allocated from the public administration. In 2002, we already want to achieve savings of 980 million y in the entire administrative area. A general renewal of public administration, comprehensive, fundamental, simple and close to citizens, is our common ambition. This too is security of the future for Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! We took over 5.5 billion y of debt from the ÖIAG at the time of office and committed ourselves to eliminate it as far as possible during this legislative period. A total of only 1.5 billion y were paid back between 1982 and 1997. We managed to halve ÖIAG's financial debt almost half in the first year. Through a clear and target-oriented privatisation strategy, we have managed to repay 2.3 billion ye of debt – a fine success for the ÖIAG and the taxpayers! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With privatisation, the Austrian economy is dynamic in key areas, outdated monopolies are broken up, the economy is deprived of political influence, and the taxpayer is relieved. The very low liquidity of the Vienna Stock Exchange in international comparison will be significantly improved, which will improve the possibility of capital injection for all companies. More equity, in turn, is the basis for crisis-proof and innovation-intensive companies. Many Austrians can acquire shares directly in companies and exercise their shareholder rights. A people of taxpayers will become a people of shareholders of Austrian companies whose value increases will also directly flow to them. That is our industrial policy conviction! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The condition for a stable Austrian capital and banking place is an effective financial market surveillance, which is being reformed. The aim of the reform is to provide an internationally recognizable all-financing solution with an operationally independent, distributed supervision, in any case the supervision of banks and securities, as well as insurance and pension funds supervision. All-financial supervision is in line with the latest developments in financial markets, enables cost-effective supervision, especially for smaller countries, is internationally compatible and in line with European developments, can be regarded as a model for other countries, and ranks Austria in a group of countries with developed capital markets. ==References====External links== In January 2002, it became effective and implemented a human, budgetary, organisational and politically independent pan-financial supervision. It is a reform for the saver, for greater security and trust in the Austrian financial centre – I also understand this under the guarantee of the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! In its government programme, the Federal Government has set itself the goal of gradually reducing additional labour costs by 1.09 billion y by 2003. A first step has already been taken with the cancellation of the service relationship with the cancellation of the post search for self-announcement and the reduction of the service provider's contribution to health insurance for workers. [[Abg. Conspicuously, the workers paid it!]] This relief from the service providers is contrary to the long-term equalisation of workers and employees in the event of compensation in the event of sickness. People and their high quality of work are the most valuable capital in this country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We must not make this location factor too expensive if we are to remain internationally competitive and secure full employment. Therefore, we will continue to relieve the labour factor – in the interests of Austrian workers, in the interests of employment and in the interests of Austria's economic location. We guarantee the future of our economy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This leads me to the important area of social security, where there are currently major financial problems. According to current estimates, the acute need for rehabilitation in the Austrian health insurance companies is around 4 billion schilling or 0.29 billion y. The financial strength of our social security is on the test, with little imagination to reorganise income by means of increases in contributions. Sustainable reform must therefore necessarily include the following: increasing efficiency and effectiveness through organisational merger and restructuring; Improving the quality of service for the individual insured by providing comprehensive advice; a revenue-oriented expenditure policy by standardising treatment standards and performance catalogues and professionalising management. We will have to change this system, because our citizens have the right to an efficient and social insurance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! The sustainable renovation, the sustainable protection of pensions for our older generation is important to us. This is also the purpose of our project to redesign the wastes into an attractive second pillar of pension provision. The aim of the new model is to outsource work from the establishments and to improve the working opportunities of older workers in particular. The New EU model also strengthens the capital market and significantly improves pension provision. This is a structural reform entirely in the sense of our workers, but also of the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Controversy: removal of the finish!]] 17 percent of the Austrian population are children, but children are 100 percent of the future of our country. We want to give this future more perspective. With the introduction of child care allowance from 1. January 2002 we achieve a significant improvement for our families and our children. 19 000 mothers, housewives and students who have not previously been entitled to care will receive child care benefits. 8,000 farmers and self-employed women, to whom only operating aid of about 50 percent of the benefit has been paid so far, will also receive the child’s allowance. In particular for this group of persons, child care benefits represent a significant improvement in their economic performance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The child care allowance will amount to 436 y – 6 000 S – in the month or 5 232 j – 72 000 S – a year, bringing about 220 million y or 3 billion schilling to the Austrian population already in the first year. Finally, child care benefits are also provided for retirement periods. The future of our country is ensured by the benefits of families as part of the uptake of the next generation. As a minister of finance, I no longer get into the pot of family money, but we use the money for our children. [[Lively applause and bravo reputation with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government is proud to be able to set this particular focus in the area of family policy, thus achieving another milestone on the way to the most child-friendly and family-friendly country in Europe. The interests of our children are above all else. The childcare allowance is a signal to families, to children and to social weak. Such a family and social policy can be seen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The BSE crisis has shown that the system of European agricultural policy needs to be further developed and reformed in the light of the enormous means of taxation used. A relatively small number of large farms in this industrial-agricultural Brussels system accounts for the largest proportion of funds, without taking into account the quality criteria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Austria, on the other hand, has already set out an alternative agricultural concept aimed at small-structured farms, ecological management and quality rather than mass production. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We should understand the current crisis as an opportunity and try to help the Austrian agricultural model, which stands for high-quality products, high-quality food safety and an economy in line with nature and living beings, as an alternative to industrial agricultural production. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Why don't you do it?]] Together, we must ensure that the large pot of EU agricultural subsidies is more fair and efficient: in the interests of our farmers, taxpayers and consumers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Why don't you do it?]] High house! Where does our way go, what are our visions, what do we want to achieve? – The answer is: We want Austria to be an economic and social model case. We are particularly concerned to create an information society for all, create a favourable framework for research and innovation and a suitable environment for the creation and development of innovative companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Financial policy must ensure a new quality and sustainability of public finances. An active employment policy should bring more and better jobs. The overall economic stability and favourable growth prospects must be used to consistently continue structural reforms in the goods, services and labour markets. Austria also needs a tax reform with two main objectives: We want to simplify and relieve fundamentally – to further improve the location of Austria, to achieve positive growth and employment effects, so that the citizen can feel as well: We have saved and, through structural reforms, permanently reduced government expenditure! Austria needs to become more entrepreneurship. In the field of new technologies, jobs are created mainly by dynamic small and medium-sized enterprises. We need to improve the conditions for business start-ups, to promote the willingness to move towards self-employment. Legal, administrative and, last but not least, cultural barriers to risk will have to be questioned. We understand all of this by ensuring the future for the benefit of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the past, there was a lack of clear ideas for a perspective for our country. I mean, we need visions again and sustainable, innovative concepts for the future. We must not let the past drive us into the future, but rather much more must be "moved" by the vision into the future direction! We want to play an important role in an enlarged European Union. We want to secure and expand our prosperity. We want to benefit people better from the forces of markets and competition, and we want to make our pension system future-proof. I am convinced that the vision of an economic liberal state with social, solidarity in a globalised economy, which I have presented in the past hour, gives you courageous and forward-looking answers to many questions. We still have visions for the well-being of our citizens. We want a "new" state with powerful, self-determined people. Those who need help we want to be able to provide a sustainable network of social services. "I have a dream", is often at the beginning of success recipes of those who realize what they believe in. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] We realize our dream! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I think you wake up sweat baths, such a nightmare you had!]] High house! At this point I formulated in the last budget speech: "A good day begins" "with a renovated budget." [[Abg. Bures:... with a nightmare!]] – 2002 can finally say: A future-rich Austria has a renovated budget! [[Congratulations and bravo reputation with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The 2002 Federal Budget represents a milestone in our medium-term social and budget strategy. 2002 is the year in which the decades-long trend towards an ever-increasing re-indebted state is carried to the grave. 2002 means: No more new debts, for the first time for decades there has been a balanced budget. We put the finances in order, and that is why we make the foundation stone visible to everyone to a necessary renewal of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In 2002, however, stress and economic prosperity also mean full employment and low inflation. I am firmly convinced that a real turnaround has succeeded. This budget creates better conditions for employment, for the family, for the economy, for a future-rich Austria. I recommend this budget to Parliament and all Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6558	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the presentation of the draft budget for 2002. The debate will take place tomorrow at the first reading of the State budget. It's the first time we've ever seen it. Debates of the European Parliament 2. Point Report of the Equal Treatment Committee on the Joint Report (III-74 of the Supplements) on the implementation of the Equal Treatment Act, in particular on the activity and exercise of the Advocateship on Equal Treatment, the procedures before the Commission and the other activities of the Commission pursuant to § 10a Equal Treatment Act 1999, presented by the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations and by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour (450 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammerand comrades on ensuring equality between men and women in Austria (451) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 264/A by Mr Mag. Barbara Prammerund comrades concerning a federal law with which the Mother Protection Act 1979, BGBl. I No. 153/1999, amended (452)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6624	We come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Does anyone want the word for reporting? - That's not the case. That is what we are going to enter into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Barbara Prammer. I'll give her the word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6654	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! – There are still some there right now. [[Some members of the Federal Government are still sitting in their seats on the government bank, others are standing next to the government bank and talking to each other.]] They have not yet quite decided, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, whether to follow the issue of equal treatment or not. I understand very well that they may prefer to leave the room. Mr Finanzminister – I think you are still here – I am firmly convinced that, as you have said, there has been a real turnaround. There's been a turnaround. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But this is tasteless!]] I'll do it. It should be noted that: When an aircraft flies and the booster turns on, this can have disastrous consequences. Many Austrians have already had to experience this. I'm afraid the same happens to your budget, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You're still claping?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That was a tasteless derailment!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] About a month ago, the report on equal treatment in the equal treatment committee, which is under discussion today, was discussed in great detail. Not only is the report itself very informative, as every time, but, above all, it was the answers of the equal treatment lawyer to the questions raised by the honourable Members, they were very informative for all of us. I also had the impression in the Equal Treatment Committee that both, namely the report and replies of the equal treatment lawyer, were not really difficult to understand. The report says: The number of first contacts with the Equal Treatment Commission is increasing, sexual harassment remains the main problem; Discrimination is usually not only in one case but mainly in several cases; the requesting men are mainly works councils and colleagues of affected women. – As far as the equal treatment report is concerned. I think we were all somewhat amazed when this equal treatment report was then suddenly taken as a reason for a man who is maiming the Minister of Women to make a very different interpretation of these results, namely the number of male contacts to the Equal Treatment Commission, which gives rise to the creation of a men's department in the Ministry of Women. This is a very strange interpretation of this report on equal treatment, and I think we will have to talk about it in great detail today. Mr Prime Minister spoke of the problem areas of men. I have also looked at your press work in detail over the last few days, Mr. Minister. They are talking about problems at work, problems of equal treatment, problems of the situation of men alone. What does that mean? What is your message to women? If the men are the disadvantaged at work, I ask you, Minister. Is that your conviction? Are the men the disadvantaged? Are they dealt with in a variety of ways, the men, worldwide and here in Austria? Is the wage inequality, Mr. Minister, which you often and often take into your mouth? Should it become even bigger, this wage inequality, or how should I understand your statement? Are the single men who are particularly compassionate? What about the single mothers, Mr. Minister? I ask you all this seriously. You have replied to our statements about a men's department that we should not react so excitedly in connection with the World Women's Day. World Women's Day and Excitement – this is how the Minister of Women interprets the World Women's Day! What does that mean?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6742	May I interrupt you briefly, honourable Member. I would find it really fair that, after the Minister of Finance had the ear of the House, there are now no conferences here in the Chamber. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I expressly ask, simply because a member of the National Council must have the same right to be heard as a member of the Federal Government. This principle must apply. Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6775	Thank you very much, Mr President. By the way, I think it is very, very helpful, especially for the many young people here in the hall, on the gallery, to determine how equal treatment, as women's policy is taken up by this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There are open ears, there is a common path of the sexes. [[to the left side of the house]] The fact that the government parties do not know what to do with it, we know, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has, of course, also referred to Mrs Vice-Chancellor on the topic of men's department. She's talking about mobbing at work. In this respect too, of course, a number of questions have already been raised for me. What does that mean again? I'll ask you if there are a number of men in the workplace who are being muttered by the evil women. How does that work? Does the writing power suddenly bring the coffee to the head of the department only more unsugared? Is that the new mombing? Or are perhaps the stubble shoes and the mini skirts of Mrs. Forstinger? – I don’t know where to see the mumbling of the many men in the workplace by women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Equal treatment is much more common, says Mrs Zierler, and speaks of older people, of young people and of disabled people. What does that mean again? The global concern for equal treatment and equality of women is thus relativized by Mrs Zierler in such a way that, in the end, there is no need for action to be diverted. So, as Mrs. Zierler represents, that means: Getting away with women's policy, getting away with gender equality policy, because it's all treated the same everywhere! – This is really a denial of the situation. Ms. Zierler led the boys, she led the elderly, and she led the disabled. What she once again did not talk about, these are the foreigners, ladies and gentlemen – that is also significant! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact that a special call from Carinthia is constantly coming in connection with such statements is no longer surprising. Mr Landtagsreiter Strutz spoke of the fact that a preference of the female sex has always been necessary. He thanked Mr. Chief Minister and asked him to finally introduce "absolute equality" because "Men have as many advantages and disadvantages in today's society, problems and fears as women.", he says. So here too I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties: Which world do you live in? Where do you see the equality of women achieved, not only in Austria, but worldwide, ladies and gentlemen? While funds for women's projects are missing, budget questions for a men's department seem to play no role. Equality policy has taken place for you. – While women are to be shown what they think of them, and they should be forced to live as they are, that is, away from the labour market, back to the herd, either mother or work, both of them have no place at all, the discrimination of men in men's departments should be declared to fight, ladies and gentlemen, and the whole thing is still scientifically subordinated, with studies supporting what costs very, very much money. Ladies and gentlemen! We know the reality, I don't need to bring it closer to you. Finally, put forward a Novelle equal treatment law in the form proposed by the equal treatment lawyer in the report. The report has been available for a long time, and the proposals have been on the table for a long time. – When will the Novelle Equality Act finally come into Parliament? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women need a modern karenz law, fathers also need a modern karenz law, but not what the Minister of Finance has presented here today. – By the way, I consider the Minutes to be: He hasn't spoken again. Is it two years, three years? What about fathers, mothers? And so on and right away. In other words, young mothers, young fathers whose children are already in the world, are still not told what they are after 31. ==References== And I think this is an expression for the people here in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: This is not important for this federal government!]] And something else: He spoke again of the so-called social justice in this context. Does that really mean that women who have been busy for 15 years may not get any child money from you if the man deserves a few schillings too much? Finally, take a look at how this child money should look so that Austria can discuss your model together, and not only do we depend on calls from finance ministers and other ministers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women's promotion programmes are necessary because it is very important to finally complete the pick-up process. We need to overcome the age-old role ascribement that only women can be responsible for family and household. And all of this has to do with women and men, because of course this is not just a matter of women. But, ladies and gentlemen, if man-made work is really to be equipped with seriousness, I would recommend that – I have already said this in the media anyway – first of all to put the "half-half" campaign back on the programme. [[Abg. Adornor: It wasn't very successful!]] Yes, it was successful, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It shouldn't be the way you do it! For example, they advertise in the "standard" yesterday: "Ring Free Youth" with Freibier! – and at the same time, I read that this men’s department should provide advice on alcohol problems. How does this fit together, Mrs Zierler? [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause at the SPÖ.]] Finally, I want to stick to the seriousness of men's work. If all means of promoting women are exhausted, it is also appropriate to make active male work, in such a way that the insight can be given that there can only be one another if men also refrain from doing so. It is an illusion to want to achieve equality if not on the male side is practiced in many, many concerns. Everything else is smears that do not correspond to reality, ladies and gentlemen. Next week, 8th. March, will be 90. Times of the International Women's Day. I'm afraid of this 8. March and all your actions that you will carry to the public on this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6908	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. The voluntary time limit is 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6932	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prammer! Whoever distributes must also be able to receive or receive. I'm shocked at your remark from the turnaround. If you feel so committed to these young people sitting up there, then you will not miss out that just through such a turnaround at the Lauda [[pointing to the gallery]] Air has killed a number of young people. That is why I find this unscrupulous, and I think I have a right to my feelings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If, by the way, you think of the equal treatment report, which still falls within your responsibility, nothing other than submissions, larmoyant remarks and tried cynicism – to cynicism you need spirit, I think Karl Kraus once said – then I'm sorry. I think more of it. I would like to say – and I am also grateful to the authors of this report – that: This report is great. He is great from the construction, he is informative, and I really would recommend him – I think I said this last time – as a mandatory reading, this time also and in particular to the men, because the practical part shows him which harassments – I now remain with the sexual harassments, because they make up the majority – are exposed to women, how subtle some forms are, and how great the inconsistency is, the men – employees, department heads, colleagues; probably also colleagues – is to meet it. But in one case – this has particularly shaken me – it was also a woman who, as an employer, believed in ultimately intrigued opinions and then had consequences for those who complained. I take this very seriously, because only by dealing with these cases can we get a real impression of it, you can really imagine it and put a lot off. Two things are important to me. One is – and many cases have shown that we are right – the regionalization of the equal treatment prosecution. You need to expand it quickly. Women need to get help on the spot, and get closer to it. But they also need to be encouraged much more. This is a task for all our women's associations and groups to really say to women: Go there, get help and trust to talk about this problem! - That's one. Secondly, I believe that all our works councils and managers, who form this contact point to the men or also the men, should simply apply for a training or other, in which it is discussed at all: What is the dignity of a person? What is the dignity of a human being? What is the dignity of a woman? In some cases one really has the impression that men don't even have a guilt awareness. They're wondering: Why doesn't he like that? It's so funny anyway. And with this I now come to a concrete thing – a similar thing I have already said –: I was deeply shaken when I read about the operations in the border army post of Perg a few weeks ago. I was so deeply shaken because, long ago, there was a parallel case in my constituency at the border command in Mitterretzbach. I was not surprised at what happened there when I got to know about it – I got all my information about the media – that the officials there are left helpless and alone. That's where I'm wondering: A good report, a good thing, but why is the equal treatment officer in the Ministry of the Interior not working? I saw her recently when she spoke generously about Mobbing in "Welcome Österreich". Only my Midterretzbach executive officials, who were not only exposed to mobbing, who were not only sexually harassed, but when they wanted to complain, the commander said: What do you want? I have good contacts with the Landenendarmeriekommando, my friends there help me! When you open your mouth, you fly! They have nothing of it! He threatened her and said: You lose the job or you can do writing somewhere in a law firm. He threatened them – by the way, men, not just women. It's immense! And now I read that it was also in Perg. It was a show business. Officials have relied on it: We have good contacts, men's affairs, good contacts with the National Army Command. In one case, someone even said he had good contacts in the ministry. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, he also believed this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] There were other things that didn't come up. Mr Parnigoni, yes, we Lower Austrians. None of you helped me in the Causa Mitterretzbach. I have fought to help the women there, and thank God in this case has succeeded that there has been a condemnation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What about the ÖVP trade union in the Ministry of the Interior?]] Mr Commissioner, I would like to tell you in a private body a few things that have happened there. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Aha! But it is already Mr. Strasser's Minister of the Interior!]] What good is it if we help women if we have the best regulation if we have a continuation of the equal treatment law – for which I am of course – when the women are left out on the ground? I can't explain why. Afraid? [[Abg. Parnigoni: The inability of Minister Strasser to become apparent!]] Is this colleague under the same pressure as all other Members? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Straster has the responsibility!]] All of this, please, falls within the responsibility of Schlögl. Of course, I turn to our Minister of the Interior, Strasser, so that he can put it off. He will do this by himself, he doesn't need me to do it, because Perg's incidents are enough to work there. Only, ladies and gentlemen, a praise sheet does not represent this Causa if those who are actually in favour of accepting these women and these concerns fail on the ground. And that's really an assignment for us now. So often we have argued about whether we are not putting three, four or five persons in charge of the businesses in order to represent women. It would be a single one, but it must work.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7031	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The speaking time is 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7051	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I will come back briefly to the budget speech of the Minister for Finance, because the budget is the government policy cast in figures. In this budget speech, I have actually not heard or found anything on the subject of equality, anti-discrimination. The Minister for Finance has referred to us the general figures and statistics on employment and unemployment, but he has been embarrassed to avoid saying what these values look like in detail. Yeah, it's true: Austria is not bad with the general values of unemployment in the European comparison – it is already better located, it had the place once – but if we look at what incomes, how pensions are distributed to women and men, then it looks quite different. There lies Austria in the poor European middle field, not one, two or three. And that should make us think. Why is it still possible in a land that is rich in itself, where the averages do not look so bad, that the gap between women and men is growing more and more rapidly? And this is apparently still with the tolerance and support of this federal government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The gender gap – Mrs Bauer, you know it – is speeding up the speed at which this gender gap is growing. Austria has been told by the EU over and over again and again, the question has been raised to us: What are you doing against discrimination? – And the answer seems to be: We're setting up a men's department. If we look at the report of the Court of Justice, we see that he speaks a very clear language. The hard, blamed discrimination against women is an element that then causes women to be systematically resettled, to be reduced to certain functions, or to bear the whole burden: Look at that, dear woman, how you get the many obligations – children, households, care for old, sick people and, of course, the job – somehow under one hat! And again, Mr. Finanzminister's budget speech is very bright, because the word "woman" or "woman" in connection with the budget speech occurs only under the title of child care money at all. It will usually be a short phase in the life of a woman in which small children are present – 1.3 children are available on average in Austria per woman – but this short phase is symbolically taken out for a woman's life. But there, too, the woman is not mentioned as a woman with her right hand, but as a member of the family. She is responsible for whether the family works or not. The designs of this karenz money, which would be very important in order to prevent discrimination in the future and to come to a sharing of partnerships, keep them away from Austrian women in a sustainable way. What's it look like? Here and today you would have the opportunity to speak and answer the House and the public. Mr. Federal Minister, do it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it were to be assumed that the number of contacts with the court of equal treatment should be a measure of which departments within the federal administration are to be set up, then above all a department would be strongly recommended, namely a department against sexual harassment. A third of the first contacts with the equal treatment prosecution are based on the crime of sexual harassment. If hard words are needed here, Mrs Bauer, then this is more than said. I quote a passage literally: "Everytime, female apprentices at the age of 14, 15, 16 say that they are massively verbal in their workplaces and are also exposed to physical assaults. The attacks leave serious psychological traces due to the youthful age of those affected, the girls suffer from extreme fear, shame over what happened to them, and react with psychosomatic symptoms such as bulimia and anorexia." Most often, if such complaints are made, then the boss prefers to separate himself from the female apprentice rather than from the skilled skilled worker who stopped a biterl across the border. – That is the case, and not, Mr Federal Minister, with an institution as you have proposed. That, Mr Federal Minister, we can only see this as a campaign of election in the Vienna election campaign now, as a signal to the tribal tables, the discriminatory men who see the head. We therefore allow ourselves to present you a special flower of a green kind just before the women's day. Mr Federal Minister, try to deal with the loads that women face every day! Go back to the stove! If you need it, we will also provide you with a few children so that you can see what it is like to the average of women with low incomes, the very small pensions, but the double and triple burden. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oellinger goes to the Federal Minister Mag, who is sitting on the government bank. Head and hand over a green duster and a shade with a green print.]] Mrs Bauer! Of course, it would be useful to talk about the situation of men in this society, because they are equally affected by prejudices, but Austria has already committed itself in the sense of gender mainstreaming. In the sense of gender mainstreaming, we should look at: How are women doing, how are men doing with their traditional role models? How can we promote businesses, create incentives in the sense of equality management? For example, also in the Ministry of the Interior: I have already brought to the attention of the Federal Minister, who, in my opinion, has a very open ear, to launch such a general programme. But I would say, Mr Federal Minister, this department with this one man you have already chosen without a tender, with this one man to worry about, that is the completely wrong answer! Minister! Not the men are generally discriminated against in this society, but the women are discriminated against, and I believe that even many modern men do not find the state good and not tolerable. That would work, but you should say goodbye to the idea of a men's department even before it's too late!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7160	The next speaker is Mrs Zierler. The voluntary time limit is 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7182	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is interesting to discuss a report on equal treatment, especially with you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, a report of equal treatment for which you are ultimately responsible! You complain of the suspense of income, you complain of discrimination, you complain of lack of childcare facilities, you complain of lack of protection of women, you complain of lack of equal opportunities. It is a situation in which there is really much to complain about – and here, ladies and gentlemen, I am with you! Many failures have occurred, but these failures have occurred in the last 30 years. 30 years of social democracy in Austria, 30 years of social-democratic women's policy in Austria, and we are now standing where we stand! It is time to counter this situation and to change and improve the shortcomings you have committed; Failures, by the way, have taken place in the federal states. We liberals profess to be a model of partnership in life. Above all, we also require full equality and equality between women and men. We support equal opportunities as a principle at all levels of living together, in marriage, in the family, in working and working life, as well as at the level of state and politics. For us, women's policy is a broad political design task and thus falls within the competence of all political sectors. We have seen in recent years what ghetto-policy - the women's policy as you have done - has achieved. [[towards SPÖ]] Mrs Mag. Prammer, if you demand a campaign like "half-half": This was a campaign over which the whole of Austria shuddered and smiled, a campaign that devoured millions and millions of schillings. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Show me the results, show me what has really been achieved with this campaign, with "half-half" in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They conceal improvements that have already been implemented under this new federal government and under our Minister of Women Herbert Haupt. We have introduced gender mainstreaming in Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have created a newly created unit for women and health, which is to give up-to-date answers for women, which the opposition will completely conceal. This new "Women and Health" section will focus in particular on the medical care and care of women. It is about combating sexual abuse, violence in women and girls. So for what you just asked for, Mrs Petrovic, there is this "Women and Health" section. Further work will focus on measures to combat addiction, improve cancer prevention, AIDS prevention, improve the psychosocial situation of women as well as the general improvement of health care and the networking of existing medical and psychosocial facilities with regard to women's health issues. – Only this short extract from the task of the new "Women and Health" section shows the main focus of women's policy under the Minister of Social Affairs. It is also men who turn to the ministry with problems. It seems to me that it is the biggest problem for you at the moment, that it is also a men's department and that a men's department is set up in Austria for the first time. They obviously do not know the international reports, because it is not an extraordinary thing in the EU that equal treatment is much broader: not only equal treatment for women, but also equal treatment for other people, even for people with disabilities. Above all, as far as the men are concerned, this is an approach, in my opinion, perhaps to achieve something on this path. [[Abg. May. Prammer:... They say no word to the foreign people!]] If you look at the ghetto policy you have conducted, Mrs Prammer, when men were invited to discuss, to work groups, to working groups: You just tried to make a women's policy, you took the men out, there was no one else. [[Abg. May. Prammer: You really don't know yourself!]] Mrs Mag. Prammer! We are committed to women, but I believe that women alone without men will not really be able to achieve anything. It must be one another, and that is how we see women's policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A co-existence of the genders, a co-existence of the generations – so we can implement something. I don't think it's a shame if men in Austria might have support on the one hand. But there are also very different areas in which you are hiding, such as violence in the family or sexual abuse; the men's department is there. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What are we hiding?]] If men have a different access to the life we are living in Austria today, to what women want, to a common care, to a common childcare supervision, I think, a male resort really is the first step to trigger a rethinking here too. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Very "important"!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of red and green! I recommend you: Remember what you didn't accomplish! We will implement a lot of what you have promised for years. Learn to look beyond your own border of plates!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7301	Next, the Federal Minister Mag. It's the main word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7323	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! To the present joint report on the implementation of the equal treatment law, the activities of the law firm on equal treatment and the procedures before the Commission, I may remind you of some figures. In Vienna and Innsbruck, 772 cases were pending, of which 627 were female and 145 were male. I should like to add what the relevant officials have to say in this report. Of course, the area has always stated that the increase in the number of men who have turned to the Equal Treatment Commission can be seen from two points of view. For this purpose more and more men are now also concerned about the interests of their wives; for the second, many male workers' representatives are also turning to the equal treatment commissions in the interest of discriminated women; for the third – and that should not be forgotten – it is men who turn to them in their own interest. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you one thing: The establishment of the men's department, which you have so called into question from the Greens and from the Socialist Group, Mrs Prammer, and which has also been discriminated against by the media, is one of several measures I have taken in the context of a reform of the Rules of Procedure, which by 1. In March of this year, it was implemented in my place of business. It is surprising to me, and perhaps particularly surprising for the women, that the women from the two opposition parties here in the High House have taken care of the men's resort and the men's department, but very little for the newly established department for women's health and genetic engineering at the same time. I am also saying this in plenary today, so that it is finally transparent in the public that I have not been concerned with setting a provocation on the World Women's Day here, but that I would like to achieve the important objectives of my work in the framework of a regulatory reform in my ministry – and in order to avoid a constant concern of my employees, with a major reform of the Rules of Procedure. It is clear to me that, especially in the area of women's health, health education for women, the discussion of women's health problems – up to food problems, up to genetic engineering, down to genetic engineering in consumer protection – after that, there is a need for this from many women – even today, when I look at the urgent request of the Greens from this afternoon – and I think it is rightly required. It is therefore a bit preoccupied to put men in the foreground now and to conceal what has happened in a positive way to women in my ministry, because it might be unpopular to make this facet of my work transparent and comprehensible to the public. That's why I'm gonna do that. I can also tell you that during the time I am responsible for the ministry, the tender procedures for the two regional commissions in Styria – in Graz – and in Carinthia have now been terminated. In Carinthia, the occupation took place before yesterday, and in Graz the occupation is still pending. I should like to point out that this report also clearly states that only by setting up regional offices, for example in Innsbruck, has advertising and accompanying measures been encouraged very many women, many of those affected, to address the equal treatment commissions. We expect the same positive effect for the south and south-east of Austria by setting up the two regional offices in Graz and Klagenfurt. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are also in the process of making a legal improvement for the equal treatment commissions for the private economy, because it is in the interest of those concerned to shorten the duration of the proceedings and to entrust the chairman with a duly paid time quota in order to bring about an acceleration of the procedures which are often considered to be longer-term by those concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that criticism must be clearly contradicted here, too, that we, too, Mr. Grasser, have nothing left for the promotion of women. I should therefore like to make a few figures on women's promotions in the budgets from 1995 to 2001. The 1995 budget estimate provided for 45,444 million schilling, the 1996 budget estimate 42 million, the 1997 budget estimate 44,373 million and the 1998 budget estimate 49,373 million. These were the budgets of the previous governments, and in the 1999 final budget, there were 59,037 million, at that time still in the Budget Overrun Act 27.311 million schilling, of which 18 million were from the field of consumer protection – by the way, this will still take place in the afternoon debate, regarding the state in which I found consumer protection at the time I took over the ministry. This will still play a role because of these financial decommissioning measures, but I will come to the emergency in the afternoon. For the year 2000, 69,235 million Schilling were budgeted, and for 2001, there are 66,910 million Schilling. Considering the 1999 final budget of the previous government with 59,037 million, the first two budgets of this government – with 69,235 million and 66,910 million schilling – can be said: I do not think that women can complain about budgetary support from this Federal Government. In my opinion, in times of savings, an increase of 10 million and 18 million respectively in 1999 and around 28 million in 1998, I do not think, in fact, mean deterioration, but rather, in times of savings, in which all the other budget items have been reduced, a very positive balance for the women's resort. I can add that there will continue to be a whole series of measures which will be promoted and which, in my opinion, will be very well promoted. It was also the question of what to do in the current report. – I can say that in the first half of 2001 the evaluation of the reports from the working groups on prevention and the catalogue of measures takes place. I may point out that "migrants", "violence in the family", "woman-trafficking", "asylants", "violence" and the changes in work there are. I can tell you that the orders have been received to the intervention agencies. I can inform you that in the first half of 2001, the examinations of the offers and negotiations on services and costs for 2002 are planned in the whole field of studies and scientific accompanying measures for gender mainstreaming. I can also tell the men's department that the establishment of this department is clear if you look at the division in the European Union. I refer here to 2000/0143, Communication from the Commission to the Council of the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, "For a Community framework strategy to promote equality between women and men (2001 – 2005). I can remind you of Article 2 of this programme, 'principles': "The programme aims to coordinate, support and finance horizontal and coordinating measures in the areas of action covered by the Community framework strategy for equality between women and men." Article 3 states that under "targets" in point (a): "Promoting and disseminating values and behaviours that are a prerequisite for gender equality" – this is also an objective of this initiative. I would like to point out to you that if you look at the new men's department of my ministry and the distribution there, then you will be able to see it – these are precisely the objectives of the EU programme for the future for the period 2001 to 2005 with the objectives of this men's department. I should also like to point out that, for three years in Klagenfurt, there has been a Caritas Men's Information and Intervention Centre, which has provided a clear proof of the need for this area with almost 4,000 interveners in 2000. The requests for assistance go from debt and poverty issues in the case of private bankruptcy to issues of divorce, to questions of single men, to problems of conflict between men and women in families. This is also very helpful in reducing aggression potentials after men's directions, thus facilitating mediation between the two former partners for the future. It is assumed that sexual abuse in the field of men – both in the case of equal and heterosexual relations – will be treated and processed and child abuse treated in a special form at a later age. Ladies and gentlemen! I should just like to point out to you from the Greens that in North Rhine-Westphalia the Green Group has already set up a corresponding men’s platform in North Rhine-Westphalia and may ask you to examine perhaps the statements of your parliamentary friend from the Green Group of the German Bundestag on this project of the German Greens in the appropriate form. I therefore ask you not to put myself in a position of malice, but to grant my ministry seriousness. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The need is given from my point of view. We will meet this need for best knowledge and conscience. [[Abg. Oils: The Greens have a different relationship with women, that is the difference!]] Ms. Dr. Ines Stamm, the provided department head, who was previously in a sedentary half-day work in the Ministry of Health and worked there on genetic engineering and health issues – she has also developed the new genetic engineering brochure for consumers – is a guarantee for me that the new department "Health for women and genetic engineering" in the Women's Ministry to conduct and accompany well. Mr Berchtold, who was already in the state of the ministry when I took over, and was to be seen in an application from the Women's Department for a different section as a skilled man, cannot be considered a case of care, but as what he was doing in his application there, namely, the man who had been tried for a similar use in the area of the former women's ministry, the now women's section, the section VI of my house. Ladies and gentlemen! I see that objectivity is not required in election periods. I am entitled to claim that the propaganda for the men's department did not go out of my house, but overcame me the corresponding events about the green club and its publications. Of course, it is for my House to introduce the two departments properly if they have been properly implemented and have begun their work, but not at the time of the in-force step of the Rules of Procedure and at the time of the preparation of the work. I can also point out that both departments will have their premises in the newly adapted rooms of the former ÖIAG holding on the Danube Canal. The expansion plans there, the modernisation and restitution plans will be completed about June of this year, so that both departments will be fully available to all citizens of this Republic in final rooms on the Danube Channel with June this year. Ladies and gentlemen! If You look at the entire program, then I believe that you will convince my employees in both departments, so I hope they will do their job in the future. I'm not going to break my head over the fact that there's an enormous need for both departments. I should also like to draw your attention to my statement in my first international activity as Minister of Women at the Women's Conference in Paris: that gender mainstreaming must be seen as a new instrument of equal treatment for men and women and the further development of our society from these points of view, also and especially from the point of view of the Ministry of Women, with Argusaugen, so that the back door does not lead to new preferences for men and to the deactivation of women's preferences in the broadest sense. I will try in my ministry to implement what I have proposed at international level also at national level, without forgetting that in my Ministry of Social Affairs and Generations, today and in the future, there must also be a place for the advice of helping men.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7376	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7398	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Zierler said that there had been no women's policy for 30 years. On the other hand, in the debates of the last few days, we hear that women's policy has to be taken away. Decide: Is there a women's policy or is there no women's policy? – At least during our time there has been a women’s policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Now there is one!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Not anymore!]] Minister! If we hear about the "overrun women's policy" over and over again, you must not be surprised that we are concerned that your first step is the establishment of a men's department. I know – I suppose other colleagues are doing the same thing – that we are constantly being addressed by individual men and hear such shallow jokes as: If that goes on, we'll soon need a men's ministry. – I don’t usually respond because it’s actually too cheap, but I’m surprised that now your first step and your big appearance as a women’s minister is going to make you a men’s department. It is true that there are men who are addressing the Equal Treatment Commission. They themselves have said that these are very large-scale works councils, so they are working for women. That is, they do not come on their own, but they try to support their colleagues as works councils. There are certainly also men who come on their own, but the Equal Treatment Commission is not only set up for women, but for everyone and anyone who feels disadvantaged. The right step would be not to set up a men's department but to extend the equal treatment prosecution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They have addressed the further regionalisation. I would like to ask you, Minister: When is it finally ready? – We have been waiting for the new attorneyship in Graz for a long time. Unfortunately, nothing is happening in this regard. Minister! This is a measure that helps both women and men. However, I would also like to say that others are concerned, not only about the politicians of the opposition, but also about the sister of the "simple party member", who, in an interview in the "standard", said that it is not in question "that the men's department is going at the expense of women's projects or promotion. We will observe this very closely." – The concern that there will be no money for women’s projects is obviously very widespread. Minister! The question of women's promotion and the promotion of women's projects is also a point you have raised. Unfortunately, we experience more and more that women's projects, which are not acceptable to you, are not being promoted. You do a policy of "part and rule", because those who don't fit into your business are not supported by you. [[Federal Minister Mag. He's talking to Abg. Steibl in the Members' Series.]] I'm sorry, Minister, that you don't listen. I believe that this is a subject that affects a lot of women's initiatives in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to return to the equal treatment report: Minister! There would be a lot to do here, and we would also support you. [[Abg. Parnigoni: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. The politeness of an agricultural gaull! Completely uninterested!]] Unfortunately, our request for the revision of the equal treatment law is still in the committee; it has been postponed, although some of the points in it are urgently required by the equal treatment lawyer. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the equal treatment lawyer and all those who work in this field very warmly for the work they do under difficult conditions. I am sorry that they are not here today and therefore I cannot express this thanks to them personally. Mr. Minister! Think about the tasks arising from the distribution of resources! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: He doesn't listen anyway!]] If you are unable and not willing to deal with these questions if you are not willing or do not want anything going on in this country in women's affairs, then give up these tasks. It will certainly be in all of our interest for a woman to take over these tasks again.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7504	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7525	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hlavac asks whether we are for or against a women's policy. That's what I'm saying: After eleven years of women's state secretariat and after nine years of women's ministry, there is unfortunately still a need for action. We are in favour of a modern and target-oriented women's policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In her speech, Mr Prammer called for the further development of the equal treatment law. I'm saying that's nothing new. This development focuses on adapting to EU law, improving the instruments and monitoring and enforcement of the law. That's what's going to happen in the near future. During the short time of the new government, so much has happened of what has by far been not brought on stage over the past nine years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: That's right, it's already done a lot!]] But that means that it is also a matter of priority to compensate for differences in income between women and men, which has not been done so far. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: How do you do it?]] – How we do that, I'll be right there. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Children's money!]] – This is also an important step. – The fact that women have a very low pension is, as it were, an old burden of the State Secretariat and the Ministry of Women. I think that the pity of low incomes, such as that of Mr Petrovic, does not continue. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: The ÖVP was also in the government!]] The new government has established a comprehensive catalogue of measures. We shape women's policies in such a way that they are viable, comprehensible and effective. I am thinking, for example, of the start of a career career, that the promotion of girls in schools will be necessary. However, the special assistance given to business founders, which the Minister of Finance has already mentioned today, is also essential. We will also put in place concrete measures in relation to the Childcare Money Act, with regard to the return to work for women. We will also anchor operational measures for the compatibility of work and family – most of which are still tailored to women – in the sense of gender mainstreaming for men and women. We will try to ensure that women, too, become central actors – I am now responding – in collective treaty negotiations, because collective treaty negotiations are considered as a central opportunity to put in place measures to achieve equal opportunities. I also think that the approach taken by Mr Social Minister to bring women to other levels is the right way, and this should also be the case in collective agreements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will also work for a fair income – I have already said that. As a Styrian Member, I feel it is necessary and important to make the point that this should also be done through the path of a minimum wage, if necessary from 1 000 y, in order to have an income which is also guaranteed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: The new Federal Government will support gender equality at all levels. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] The reports on the implementation of the equal treatment law are a good basis, and we also thank for them. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] I am convinced that – although the SPÖ and the Greens seem to not vote in favour of this item on the agenda, because they have been reported as counter-voicers –: With this new government, it can and will only improve in terms of women's policy. I think the approach to introducing a men's department may not be completely outraged at this moment, but I'm convinced – and I spoke seven years ago in my department of an academy to the new masculinity – that further development is necessary in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7640	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7661	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that my previous speaker, Mrs Steibl, has confirmed exactly what we have said all along. It has meant that the concept for this male section has not yet been completely depleted. Although we ask the fundamental question of whether this is needed in the form at all, at least now it is admitted by the government that what you, Mr Minister, are already planning, what is available in this regard, is simply not gone. Now, however, on the priority issue today: I would also like to thank the equal treatment lawyers and their team very much for this excellent report and the great work they have done in recent years and hopefully continue to do. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to focus on the need for some improvements from the government side. Minister! You have argued that regional prosecutors are now being set up in the Styria and Carinthia, but I ask you: What about the other countries? . This report clearly shows that enlargement in the regions is a very important point. Where are they in the other federal states? When are they coming? Adjustments to EU law have long been due. This concerns, for example, the abolition of the upper limit on damages to adapt the burden of proof. When are you dealing with this? - I haven't heard from you yet. If you now say how necessary such a men's department is, then I give you the right to say that it is very well – we Greens have always said – that men are working on their role understanding that they need support so that they finally understand that violence against women is not a cavalier offence or a nuisance. – Mrs. Zierler! You used to mean, you don't understand why we don't say how great the new women's and health department is. Sexual harassment has nothing to do with health. This is more about saying: Hands off! There's no need for health. But, of course, men need support when it comes to understanding that shaving at the tax is not used to dispel youth, but that it can have fatal consequences. But the establishment of a men's department, which is completely unclear as to what it will do, cannot be the right way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! A right way would be to finally implement the women's people's desire, because then the men would very well understand that they would have to change their role understanding. The implementation of this popular desire has not succeeded under the last government, and from your side I have not heard anything about doing anything in this direction at all. For example, it is about everyone having the right to reconcile work and children. The Minister of Finance speaks of the mothers who will now receive the child's money. What about the men and their right to part-time? – We are far from taking such a step that men finally have the opportunity to reconcile work and children as it is so beautiful, and at last can use this right for themselves. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The promotion of part-time opportunities for men would be something. But then you also need to see that wages are raised for part-time work and for minor employment and that these jobs are secured, because men will not be able to give up their income for the wonderful chance of being with children and leading the household. Minister! We haven't heard anything about what exactly you want to do with this men's department. You have said that you have heard from the EU Women's Ministers how important it is to address the question of indebtedness among men, the question of poverty and the fact that there are areas of conflict – that is true, but I ask you: What's going on? – In concrete terms, you make a section head of this department who apparently did not find a job. If this is your man's policy, I have to say: This is very shortsighted. Gender mainstreaming, which you have also mentioned, means something quite different: That is to say, a budget, as it has been presented today, to judge by gender law to see that women are not disadvantaged in it – nothing has come from your side at all. But that is also to say that women's organisations, of which you also say they are doing important work to finally provide long-term security, that is to say doing something so that the income scarcity between men and women is not even further apart. It is about rights, Mr Minister, and not just recognition of the qualities of women. There is also a part of the government's policy. The Federal Chancellor at the ÖVP Women's Congress last year said that men should also use the means available to women, such as charm, which is not gender-neutral in itself. Minister! Do you want to teach men charm with your department now that they might hit women with a smile in the face and rape or perhaps with a friendly face run the career leaders up faster and earn more, so that it might not hurt women that way? Is that what your men's department is doing? More charm instead of rights? – Minister! That's the wrong way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Equality policy is the distribution and redistribution policy of power, income and paid and unpaid work between men and women. A charm offensive creates exactly the opposite. This creates nightmares for women and not the dream of a Martin Luther King, whom the Minister of Finance has previously misused in an improper way for his budget. Mr. Men's Minister! Learn equality policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7760	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am now allowed to respond to the statements made by my three previous speakers in concrete terms. Mrs Lunacek! I am quite right to say that the income of women in Austria is not only unsatisfactory, but has unfortunately not evolved since 1975, since the same treatment and the principle of equal pay for work has also been established at international level. You know very well that during this time, not this federal government, but the previous governments were responsible for it. The gap between women and men in both income and pensions has remained unchanged. I should also like to point out that according to the poverty report, it is a main argument that part-time and low-quality working conditions are very often used by women as an alternative due to child care. Apart from this, women in the classic women's professions have up to 18 percent worse starting opportunities. I should also like to point out that I have repeatedly appealed to the collective contractual partners to focus on both things, namely to make the classical women's occupations or sub-areas of them significantly better in collective treaty negotiations and to give more attention to collective treaty negotiations where part-time employment is common and common, because the worse collective agreements have an impact solely on women's disfavors based on the present statistical surveys. I should therefore like to express my pleasure at the fact that during the period during which this Federal Government is responsible, the difference between men and women in access to small jobs has been reduced to 30 per cent compared with January 1999 and January 2001, while in the last period for which the previous government was responsible it has been 44 per cent – men 5 000 and women 14 000, i.e. the ratio was almost 1 : 3. The Federal Government has thus succeeded not only in creating more employment, in creating more jobs for women, but also in improving access to this instrument in favour of women in comparison with gender. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is often claimed – as Mr Hlavac did – that organizations that are constantly quoted and also quoted by Mr Prammer in February of this year at a women's forum receive less money from me. I'm allowed to say: "Notruf Innsbruck", "MAIZ", "Kassandra" and "Checkart" are some associations that have started their work in 1999 and have been equipped with a three- to six-month budget, such as the "Volkshilfe Oberösterreich". Actual cuts had to be accepted until now only the "Independent Women's Forum". The 500 000 S were therefore cut to 100 000 S, because by 30. November 2000 was still no final planning – event – for 2000. This approach was not even partially fulfilled in the legal bases. The funds for "The association for the award of legal protection for women in Vienna" were reduced from 200 000 S to 150 000 S, because the association had very high reserves at the financial statements and an association could not make any profits. However, it has also been made clear and clear in this reduction that when these reserves are exhausted, of course the money is available to the club. To date, we have not yet come back to disbursing the reduced 50 000 S which would have been intended for emergencies in legal proceedings. In the "Verein versus Rape – emergency call Innsbruck" an additional funding of 300 000 S was rejected. Until 1999 the emergency call received 150 000 S. 1999 and in 2000 the association received 600 000 S. The request is based on an 81-percent reduction by the country of Tyrol, which I say clearly. My funding – I repeat – was more than doubled compared to 1999, because the association received 150 000 S by 1999 and 600 000 S grants respectively in 1999 and 2000. I do not believe that it is justified to compensate for cuts that the countries are carrying out on the side of the federal government. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you are really interested in this association, on the spot, i.e. in Tyrol, to lift the 81-percent reduction of this association again, because in my area the promotion has been quadrupled from 150 000 S to 600 000 S. "MAIZ" is waiting for 140 000 p. 180 000 S they had already received. The 140 000 S were paid out in 1999 as co-financing of an EU project, but unfortunately never realized. I can say this again: In 1999, there was an EU co-financing, and this project was never realized. Although the amount could be converted into a support, it was not a basic support, which would have been entitled to 2000 as well. I think it was at all a welcome to re-establish the 140 000 S co-financing of an EU project into normal funding and not to ask for it because the project has not been implemented as such. There has also been a transfer of 140 000 S, which was project-related. "Kassandra" is a women's service department under construction: This is only supported by 300 000 S. We have requested evidence of activities. A single-month activity report was presented, ladies and gentlemen. A further request for reporting was necessary. We're waiting. For "Checkart" 300 000 S were approved. The file has been mistakenly filed with us as an end. "Checkart" never touched us. But on the basis of the suggestions from you that "checkart" has not been promoted, we have followed these things, and the instructions have been made in full. To blame, women's associations have no longer-term financial security: It's not new that you have to tremble about the funding. – This expression comes from the "Falter" of the 6th century. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! Women's service agencies already have three-year framework contracts taken over by this government. The intervention agencies against violence will have five-year contracts starting in 2001. The fact that these are always completed subject to budgetary coverage is in line with the Federal Funding Guidelines. I should therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that the increase from three to five years is an improvement by two years and therefore the claim that the clubs have to tremble around their funding is simply and simply wrong. They claim: The main aim is to promote the intervention agencies against violence on their own and to focus the Ministry of the Interior on the work of the perpetrator. – This also comes from the women's round with Prammer on 20 July. February 2001. I am right, Mrs Prammer: From 2001 onwards, the intervention agencies will receive five-year contracts. The costs are shared as before by the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Generations. However, the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Generations now has a greater right of participation than at your time. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But you said that yourself in Mrs Petrovic's answer!]] They have raised the following accusations regarding women and work: This government tightens the differences in income between men and women, making it a step back for women. . I would like to draw your attention to the fact that income shears have not changed over the last 30 years. Women already earn by 18 percent less at the start of the career. Child care periods lead to significant income losses, and unfortunately women still tend to become women-specific professions. In the last four months, so since I've been in charge, I've initiated a women's project with 1. April 2001 will start in Graz, behind which Siemens stands and that 450 women will receive a highly qualified IT job after six months of training. I should also like to point out that we have also launched initiatives with the Federal Ministry of Science, Arts and Education so that women in schools can make a special training, that women from non-specific women's professions can share their life experience with other women and therefore receive an increased incentive to become active in the vocational, education and training phase, even in the professions that are traditionally not women's occupations, but rather technical and other high-income professions in order to make new occupations more accessible to the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to remind you that this month, i.e. in March, the Federal Government will present the project "Child money for all" in the government. This project will have a correspondingly long assessment phase and will be in place for parliamentary decision-making in June of this year. The Federal Government is based on a responsible concept that all those concerned must first be involved in a phase of co-determination, i.e. in the review. Secondly, the law will be passed before the summer in order to give time to countries too, until the in-force step of this law with 1. In January 2002 the country legislation on families and the promotion of women was adapted in such a way that the age levels from three to finally 27 years were better protected than they are today. I believe that we are responsible enough and not populist to give way to your calls today, but we will implement our concept correctly so that we will ensure clarity and not new confusion in the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7829	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7848	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! "Man-free zones" is the Olympus of the correct women's consciousness of SPÖ women. Feminism under the cover Equal treatment is a dusty purple garment that, in my view, would have to be removed at last. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What perhaps once had a right at that time is, in my view, a weighty handicap for women. From the former mass movements, a social dinosaur in Bonsai form has become a marginal theme with which no one wants to have anything to do outside the professional in-groups. A quiet yawning is the maximum of social resonance, regardless of gender, ladies and gentlemen! In Germany and in Austria there have been two women's movements for me. The first one was about 100 years ago – you would like to speak, Mr Oellinger – less spectacular than those in England at the same time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] The result of the first women's movement was the introduction of the right to vote. The second wave is about eliminating the disadvantages in all areas of society. At least at that time it was possible to do that on the subject. At the same time, this second women movement was above all the wave of the three "B"s", of consciousness, of concern and of reference. The man was regarded as a hostile counterpart who exercised power and domination while the woman was to be delivered to him without protection. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Who wrote you this speech?]] – Mrs Colleague! I'm writing my own speeches, but I don't know what this is about you. Nevertheless, the seasonwood is passed on for a third wave, and the majority of women of the younger generation are very opposed to this term that you have always defined. At the same time, the same young women take all those rights that have been fought in their mother generation in the second women's movement as of course, such as full access to education, where they are largely equivalent – every third girl makes Abitur, and the number of students already exceeds the number of students. The young women want to be there, participate, take advantage of and fill in existing rights – without pathos and without cramps, but in the best sense, of course, once in the business costume, once in a long dress. Above all, they no longer want to be alibrarians with limited influence – not beneficiaries of the politically correct men's governments, but recognized as a colleague, Mrs Collaborative, to be judged and promoted by the same standards. [[Abg. May. Prammer: How do you feel about Mrs. Vice chancellor?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction SPÖ) You had the chance!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Their women's policy only creates polarization, enemy images and aggression on the basis of their choice of words and also of the Greens, for example, in relation to the establishment of the men's department in the Social Ministry. Words such as uterus, ödipus complex, Department of Nudelwalker phobia are words of aggression, which in my opinion do not fit into the thinking structures – ladies, please – of a woman. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Did you watch TV last night?]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you do with it is that women are not taken seriously. This does not do us women good and is not a good service that you give us. It is about understanding and respecting, accepting the opposite sex. Of course, the change in the role of women also changes the role of men, and the change in the role of the role model – whether as a father who goes in Karenz, whether as a single parent, or as a divorced person, whatever – as well as the associated problems must also be analysed in the interest of women. That is the objective of our Minister for Women, and that is why he has set up this department. The Minister has already said that in Germany, in North Rhine-Westphalia, in Berlin this is a left-wing topic. Apparently you are not up-to-date, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the SPÖ! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: There is no content at the Minister!]] I hope that you will turn away from your aggressive women's policy and take advantage of the opportunity not only to demand equality but also to live. Only those who change will remain faithful! - Maybe that's a slogan for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7973	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7995	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! They have discussed, among other things, the development of income shears between men and women. You will remember that a few weeks ago we discussed a report in this House on this very question, namely the causes of this development, and it is clear that there are many reasons for this apartheid development. In particular, the situation of training of girls and women and long career breaks lead to a disparate development of incomes. What we need to note now is that you, your federal government, are taking the steps exactly in this direction, so do not take to improve this situation, but take steps that will further disperse income development, tag study fees – these will make girls more hit –, keyword incentives for longer career breaks – child money. There are also clear indications in the equal treatment report of these reasons for differences in income, such as internal continuing training. It would be important to get in here. As far as the debate on the new role of men is concerned, I am very much in favour of men doing so, but I would also like to remind you that symbols have an important role in politics and that the symbols you place are attempts to weaken the situation of women at the political level. Which signals have you set? – The abolition of the Women's Ministry as the first, so that, as a result, the abolition of women's policy is bad; as the second important step, the Federal Government has nominated a man as a woman's minister, and now – apparently as a consequence of the equal treatment report – comes the next step, just a few days before the International Women's Day. What consequence do you draw from the equal treatment report? – As mentioned above, they still install a men's department with the tasteful term VI/6, which many cannot believe at all, but keep as a carnival joke. In addition, She's the equal treatment lawyer with a ban on speech. As much as you understand about freedom of expression! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If so far there have been the quietest doubts as to why it is difficult to make a man a woman's minister, why a man is in the wrong place, I think, Prime Minister, you have explained this with this step at the latest. You, Prime Minister, are not a woman minister, you are a clear man lobbyist and take clear steps in this direction – not only at symbolic level, but also manifestly. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I recall the common care - a regulation that clearly aims at weakening the position of women and strengthening the position of men. They document that in your eyes emancipation has apparently gone too far in recent years and that one must therefore take these steps. I got an e-mail from a man about men's department from which I'd like to quote you. He asked: We men – I think it will be clear from this e-mail that it is cynical to see the men's department in relation to discrimination on the grounds of sex – finally want to earn as much as the female part of our society. We men demand equal access to the working world. It is reasonable for an intelligent healthy man to spend everyday life with housework. Women today successfully dominate executive, army and Philharmonic. We want 30 percent of the cashiers in the supermarket. If men are already disadvantaged by nature and cannot have children, we want a minimum of 20 months for men to finally create equal opportunities on the labour market. As a condition – as a sign against the cultural domination of women – we men make the revision of the text of the German anthem by Herbert Grönemeyer. [[Abg. Bigruck: Is that Karl Marx's?]] I hope, Minister of State, you understand the irony of this proposal and will not confront us the next women's day with the implementation of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8044	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8066	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! On the current occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention a book tip for both the debate and the setting up of the new department in the ministry – in connection with a joint work on the concept of content. It summarises what could be done in this department: "Men fail." Dieter Otten is the editor of the results of a long-standing research work. In a research institute at the University of Osnabrück, men have for many years worked out data materials – which are now available in book form, the Conlusio can be read – of which the authors were surprised, because they had not expected such a dramatic result. How can this be summarized? The editors write: "For not the women are our problem. It is not the women who stand in the way of women's emancipation, but the men. Not that young women have got away so well in our studies is sensational, but that young men are getting worse and worse." Under this pretext, it is all about demagicizing a majority of men's bureaucratic hierarchical world view. On this basis, the establishment of this men's department, the VI/6.6 department, as it is called, is very important to me. I therefore propose that this department cooperates, cooperates and cooperates with all departments dealing with women's issues of old types – I say so – and that the results of the men's department are also found in the women's and equality reports, that there is no one's own report again, but that these results are integrated, that not one's own media, which again means the isolation of the respective issues, are dealt with, and therefore, unnecessarily, also cause additional costs. I can remind you, constructively, of the mail content that the previous speaker has addressed. I am very much in favour of the division VI/6.6 because we need more knowledge about men who need to be developed and published in terms of solutions; more knowledge about men who have so far been dealing with their problem relationship – I say it theoretically – between Eros and Thanatos, especially in the direction of my colleague Grossruck, does not deal with the path of child pornography. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's it!]] We need more knowledge about men, namely, men's knowledge about themselves, since they have not yet been able to fight against overmothering and underfathering, as Paul Zuhner once said, and more knowledge of how men can accomplish their educational and fatherly work. We need to know more about men, such as men with fears, failures, impotence, with their disturbed relationship to their bodies, and not to solve the problem chemically, pharmacologically. We need more knowledge about men who pay women badly for fear, that they just over payment, about a bad – the personnel developers say that so – work-life balance, so to speak, suppressing a non-balanced relationship between work and life, and suppressing women and exploiting their dominations. What do I want to say? - We need more knowledge about men. Men should have this knowledge because they are still summa summarum those who are subject and not object of disadvantage, that is, they are the disadvantaged and not the disadvantaged. I think we can and should do this without polemics, but with a lot of energy. The knowledge of other forms of discrimination is known, lies on the table. We can go to work together with the Women's Department. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8103	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8125	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! After ten speakers and the speakers of the Minister for Women, it is now so far that the first man now has the opportunity to express his views on equal treatment issues. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Super!]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one has disputed the equal treatment of men and women in our society, especially in working life. Much remains to be done, however, much, especially as regards working life and equality, has been blocked by the ÖVP in the former government or in previous governments. It is a problem when, as in her speech, Mrs Steibl, on the one hand, one calls for higher wages for women, and on the other hand, as Mr Colleague stupidly says with his organization, says: But not too high wages, otherwise we might be risking jobs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] In your group, Mrs Steibl, talk about it, you have enough talk about it: Mitterlehner, stupid! Once your colleagues are in this matter, you have enough work to do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If one goes into detail on equal treatment issues, it quickly becomes clear to whom equality is a concern, who is talking about it and who is acting. In a specific example, I would like to make this clear: The S & D Group – which is about today's agenda item 4 – has proposed to extend the retention period after re-entry into working life, in particular by women after taking up employment, to 28 weeks. It would be easier to reintroduce into the original workplace. The professional experience one may have lost in a short time could be picked up. [[Abg. Steibbl: Dreamry!]] It would be easier to secure, and the workplace would at least be guaranteed and secured at this time. If it really is not, then at least one would have a social security for those Members who would then have a right to unemployment support. This claim would be correct for the family. Promote women – human and fair. How do we deal with this item on the agenda in this debate? – First of all, no one has said so far – I would like to do so first – and second, the two government parties reject this request. This is actually sad, ladies and gentlemen, especially since there is a broad support of this demand. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The ÖAAB has included this call at its meetings. ÖAAB officials support this claim on every occasion: Federal Congress of the ÖGB, Tancsits has issued the parole: Yes, this is a social-politically important requirement. – But what happens here? - That's the opposite! At the ÖGB Women's Congress, for example, the ÖAAB women and the women of the Christian trade unionists also demanded this request vehemently. Today's the nail sample, and I'm afraid you won't exist. In the Committee, Mrs Haller even said that there would be no agreement because this would not be reasonable for the economy. So the economy has priority over workers' interests. That is what I am saying now in the direction of my group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's what we should remember! There the little ones, the hard-working and the decent are once again sold and forgotten. The position of the People's Party - I have already said it - was clearly expressed in the Committee by the Steibl Members. Although I do not understand what she meant when she meant that women would be discriminated against, it would be time-consuming workers' protection and a longer employment for women. So that's no longer understandable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: I said it's a disadvantage...!]] I'm sorry, I can't go with that. Job security and the right to social support do not therefore have any special importance in the People's Party – understandably, because some people in the People's Party believe that the woman belongs to the herd and nowhere else. [[Call the SPÖ:All!]] – This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion: Those who think progressively in the House are therefore only the Social Democrats, and not only on this question, and let us not slow down either, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8254	Mrs Wachslander has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8276	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The statements of the lawyer on equal treatment issues in the Committee as well as the joint report by the Federal Minister Haupt and Bartenstein on the implementation of the equal treatment law clearly show – that is fact – the high acceptance of this institution to the population. The increase in initial contacts by more than a third also proves that there has been a change of consciousness in the event of inequality or discrimination. A large number – unfortunately not yet the majority, but nevertheless a multitude – of those concerned have sought advice and is no longer willing to endure or to remain silent because of fear and shame. This also illustrates impressively the practical part of the report, in which events are mentioned, whose facts show how hair-driving some do. Therefore, it is urgently necessary not only to provide for further awareness-building measures, but also a whole series of improvements, especially with regard to existing EU law, to be aligned with Austrian law standards. The establishment of the Regional Procuratorship for the Western Länder, which for example has tripled the first contacts in the federal state of Tyrol, concludes that the offer of advice on the ground corresponds particularly to the needs of those seeking advice. That's where the question arises: Who are these counsellors? – The practical part of the 1999 report clearly shows: No matter whether it is the reason for the employment relationship, the determination of the remuneration, the lack of promotion or promotion, the termination of the employment relationship or the sexual harassment at work – the arches of those concerned, the mobility, the unevenly treated, ranging from uneducated to academically trained and ranging from apprentices to those with top experiences and top-level knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only are women affected by this inequality, but men are more and more often. As far as men's departments are concerned, I have to say, APA's broadcasts, which read: "SPÖ women: "Men's department" is white cynicism. Mainly, social consensus breaks", I cannot understand. I can't understand you're hiding so far. It is evident that more and more men have recently approached the existing equal treatment committees and are seeking advice on the grounds of discrimination and harassment at work. I am convinced that in the age and in the sense of gender mainstreaming, this department has absolute permission. It also doesn't mean neglecting women's affairs, you've been insured several times today. You, ladies of the opposition, and your apparently ignored men, are leaning against a successful co-operation and trying to play woman against man. Good luck for those who, unlike you, are completely neutral in sex, that your women's policy is always in the way of itself! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Instead, I assume that equal treatment is not only a subject for women and men, but that equal treatment or prevention of discrimination should also be a postulate with regard to the natural differences between young and old, with the disabled and the disabled, but also with those with a right-wing pension. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Light-lein!]] Mrs Mag. Prammer! I am entirely of your opinion when it is written: "Climate-Pension for Prammer, no good picture". The SPÖ politician is not pleased with the pension debate." – I can imagine that, and there I am with you. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Light-lein! Light's burning! What do you say to the little light?]] The many minimum pensioners who have worked more physically for at least a lifetime than their ticky-tricky-climate will not be treated in the same way. Of course, you apologise for the exorcism with performance and responsibility: Well, he has done all kinds of things, and responsiblely he has left us a huge debt. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Light-lein!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: This is discrimination, Mr Cap!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This is what distinguishes this government from your 30-year-old government. There is no irrational action here, but misevaluations are immediately revised. [[Abg. Silhavy: Ambulance fees! You can see your responsible action!]] You will already see the success of the budgets, as they have been presented by Minister Grasser today. They have also announced a lot, but it has become nothing out of it, and that is the difference to us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We are willing to revise or announce misevaluations, but your socialist finance minister Lacina – I think that must have been 1986 or 1987 – has changed tax laws to eliminate the difference between invalid and accident pensions. This is, of course, also a special form of equal treatment, but with which we cannot start anything. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8386	The next speaker was Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8408	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In the case of the principle section VI/6.6, one can only speak of a Freudian failure. The German Press Agency writes: "But no joke!" She first saw this as a carnival joke! [[Abg. Gaugg: It has enough problems with the red shrod!]] In my opinion, this department is another step, Mr Minister, which shows that you have absolutely nothing to do with women's policy! If it has always been said that in 30 years of socialist politics there would have been nothing going on for women in the country, I can only say: All the major changes in family law, all improvements for women have been created at this time, but unfortunately one cannot change a centuries-long patriarchate within 30 years. [[Abg. Weekly countries: I didn't notice anything about it!]] That is why we also need an active women's ministry for the future, which this government unfortunately cannot offer to Austrian women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that just now. Use of March is the wrong signal effect and shows how the liberals deal with the women in this country – and this at a time when the income scarves break up. I can only say that the current budget also clearly shows that there is absolutely nothing going on in Austria for lower incomes. For example, in the metal industry the differences in income between men and women are the lowest, and there the trade unions are the strongest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who pays the wages? – These are the entrepreneurs, and the entrepreneurs have always refused to do something on their own for the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! I think it's the wrong signal, too. At a time when, on the average, two women are murdered in Austria in one month, when violence against women and children in the family is increasing, we need to use more money, here we need to do something for the people. As long as 80 per cent of the compensation beneficiaries are women, we really have to do something for women. [[Abg. Weekly countries: They can't emigrate!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Who has approved all of this for the last 40, 50 years?]] [[Abg. Weekly countries: That was the "good" family policy!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Does the female employees in Argentina now get more at VW?]] A word about your argument, why we need this men's department now: I insist that we have family advisory services, we have sexual counsellors, youth advisory services – all these are open to men. They can also be visited by men. I think they should also be taught well. But in the field of the Women's Ministry, setting up a men's department can only be seen as a carnival joke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8531	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. The watch is set to 4 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you look at this report, which was, by the way, a great one, you would have to say, in turn of the legendary Andreas Hofer: "Women, it's time!" – The list of all the SPÖ women’s ministers have failed is very long. For example, in this report on the implementation of the equal treatment law in 1999, when, by the way, you, Mrs Prammer, were still responsible, you can read that women are still being discriminated against among the salaries – a fact that we all know. There you can read that women are treated differently from men in pension funds. It should also be noted in the report that women are often denied education and training. More and more, it seems that sexual assaults on female apprentices are becoming more and more common today. I wonder, therefore, where in all these areas the SPÖ women ministers have been in the last 30 years or what they have done during this time. I know they've been celebrating themselves as feminists, but they've forgotten the decisive thing: The fact that reality does not appear in any action groups or elitist circles, but in businesses, in families and in the workplace. And even today, when it comes to women's policy, you think nothing more than actionism: even today, as the desire for women's people has been made very clear and clear to you what you have failed in this area. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Prammer and Silhavy.]] For 30 years you have determined women's policy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and what remains? – Frust, insolence and an destructive report, and from your side cheap polemics at the lowest level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New calls from honourable Members Mag. Prammer and Silhavy.]] For example, if the Green and Red Members in the High House are constantly addressing Prime Minister as "Mr. Women's Minister", this shows me clearly at what level their arguments are playing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But with all the polemics, ladies of the SPÖ, you won't get one away: They have to answer everything that has been missed in the last decades. Her ministers have failed exactly where it was about real equality. And I also tell you why Dohnal & Co failed: because they were always more important to polemics than politics and because actionism was always more important to them than the women they should have been there for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore high time that, according to financial policy, women's policies in this country also changed.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8632	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8653	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! A question to Mrs. Lentsch: But your group was with us sometime in the government, right? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Just as a sleeper!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: The "poor" of the ÖVP have always been misinformed!]] It is so laborious to have to know again and again that one no longer remembers having done much together in the past. That's really unpleasant. In this sense, therefore, a brief reminder aid that in the past very much women's policy has gone on a lot further. If Mrs. Zierler thinks that half-half was just a slogan: I dare to doubt that very much. [[Abg. Silhavy: How do decoratives know it is in the FPÖ!]] Especially in time, there has been a great deal of partnership, family benefits and the sharing of care obligations and the awareness that women's policies are to be carried together. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: At the SPÖ, their own men braked the women's minister!]] I do not want to discuss our men, because we now have a special copy of this genus as a "woman's minister", and he is a woman's minister. It's even more hardy for me, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What, for example, is the introduction of this men's department? I fully agree with my colleague Kuntzl here: Politics also lives by symbolism. And when first the women's ministry is cut off, women's policy in the budget is only more than by-catch in the way of the division or the introduction of the child's money, and otherwise women can't find a place there, and then when you say in the carnival: six, six, six!, I really believed that this is a joke. I'm sorry, I really believed that! [[Abg. Witchlands: But they are gullible!]] I thought it would be funny now: six, six, six, with the male policy! I thought it was going to be fun now, it's going to be very classy now, because now not only Haider has joined the Vienna election campaign to abolish the taxation of accident pensions as a wiredriver from the south, but now the women's department is also making a special male policy. Wonderful! Fine! I have hoped that in plenary this will be clarified, then the carnival time is already over, there has already been Ashindi Wednesday, and then we will be told what errors have happened here. But no, there are explanations for this step here! But what this is all about is that policies for women still need to be carried on very seriously and equality is still in their infancy. Apparently there is a family image for the FPÖ and also for the ÖVP – you have to hold it again and again – that is stone-time. They seem to imagine this as a biterl as the Feuerstein family, where Mama Wilma is responsible for children and households, plays father Fred from time to time with the children and perhaps brings the money home. It would be wonderful to support all of this with child money and in the future to develop family policy in this way. [[Abg. Witchlands: We don't like idle women?]] But we are no longer living in the Stone Age, and we have quite begun to implement something in this area of women's politics. And now you are starting with your measures, with the measures that this Federal Government is taking, to transfer all this back to this very Stone Age! This is a refusal of reality! We are truly in another century, in another millennium. And in this sense, I can only ask: Give us the Ministry of Women back! [[Abg. Young: There you have to win the elections first!]] And finally, in the sense of gender mainstreaming, you start to make policy for women in the sense that we do not have to demand again and again: The pay-as-you-goes are going apart, we should balance wages and salaries! Furthermore, we also need training concepts so that girls not only trust themselves in typical girls' occupations but also in men's occupations. So there's still a lot to do here, and we'll ask you to do that. We Social Democrats will observe very closely, for example, which concepts you pursue in this men's department in the future, whether you encourage men and support projects that they trust more in the karenz that together with women they share all the loads of child rearing and also the joys of child rearing and therefore go into our common future in the sense of a partnership policy. [[Abg. Silhavy: Just like in all other areas: chaotic and conceptual!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8793	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8814	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say a few words by Mrs Beate Schasching. Dear Mrs Colleague! In your speech, you have referred to me as a rare specimen of this genus. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of an exact same remark, the Equal Treatment Commission has clearly qualified this as a sexist expression. I would ask you to use other words in your diction.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8865	Mr Staffaneller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8887	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Dear audience at the gallery! I fully agree with my previous speaker when she believes that women still have a lot to do, that women's problems still need to be solved. I also invite you, Mrs Schasching, to observe, as you have promised, exactly what the Federal Government will do in the future. I will show you some successes that have already occurred in women's policy in this short period of time. Interestingly, in this report, the fact that 19 percent of men have already turned to the law firm for equal treatment in Vienna and Innsbruck in 1999. So around 19 percent were men who had problems. The measure discussed today by the Federal Minister of State, therefore, is certainly reasonable and fully justified. In this report, ladies and gentlemen, it is mentioned, among other things, that when women return to their jobs after the birth of a child and a longer period of care, they are often assigned to work and tasks which do not match their qualifications and service contracts. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this legislative period, the ladies of the opposition parties expressed serious fears here in the House and also publicly announced that the free education and training programmes of the AMS would now be shortened for women. The opposite is true, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The training programmes for women and especially for re-primary women are now not only constantly improving quality and adapting to reality, i.e. job-related, but already more women than men are aware of the qualifications offered by the AMS. [[Abg. May. Prammer: They have always done that, the question is: Why?]] I can also give you some official figures: In 1998, a total of 20 930 people, of which – quite balanced – 10 224 men and 10 706 women participated in AMS training. In 2000, i.e. last year, this was 28 584 in total, 13 542 in men and 15 042 in women. That means a plus of 1,500 women. The training programmes of the AMS will be adapted specifically to women and will be made even more flexible and job-related in the future. This also gives women the opportunity to receive higher salaries and improve their incomes in the course of equal treatment. The differences in income must be reduced in the future. That's what we're talking about. However, girls and women also need to be better aware of opportunities and risks of new technologies in order to take the opportunity. Non-traditional professions, especially in the technology field, need to be taught by women and girls in order to achieve a future-oriented workplace on the same conditions – in particular wage conditions as for men. The existing role-clinics, which have been maintained for so long, must be influenced positively by better professional and study advice. Many mistakes have been made in the past, not only by the schools, but also by the AMS, which have already been partially corrected in 2000 and are further corrected according to the 2001 work programmes – as I was able to convince myself. They convinced me that you're on the right track here. One word to the disabled: Disabled young people, for whom little has been shown to have been done in the past, are now being cared for and promoted in schools within the framework of the disabled billions and in order to train their suitability and inclination accordingly. In this area too, of course, we call on the economy and its stakeholders to play an active part. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations, especially among disabled young people and adults, will attach great importance to the fact that the millions of disabled people for support are spent in such a way as to ensure equal treatment. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8924	The next speaker was Mr Kampichler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8946	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although the equal treatment report deals primarily with the promotion of women in the Federal Service, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to focus very briefly on the situation in the private sector. Unfortunately, there are still differences in the Federal Service, namely the inequality in wages – but my colleague Ridi Steiblreids pointed this out. The second significant difference is the interruption in work, as a result of the interruption of careers, especially when educational activities are to be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! This task is, of course, primarily carried out by women. This is why women, of course, are primarily affected, especially by the negative effects caused by the interruption of their careers. Ladies and gentlemen! The return to professional life presents very special challenges. Some of my previous speakers have already referred to this. A number of public initiatives and aid are available for this sensitive phase of work. One of them, ladies and gentlemen, is the reintroduction aid after the karenz period, a financial support by the federal government to compensate the employer for the costs incurred in re-entry for female workers. Ladies and gentlemen! I have always wondered that this aid is relatively rarely used. However, since I have been working for a farm in my community for this support, I have become aware of why this is so, because I have already noticed when looking for the application form that this is not so easy. This search was more or less adventurous. In the district office of my health insurance institution in Neunkirchen, there was no official aid, no one knew the aid, and of course there was no application form for it. A second attempt at the Landeszenzentrum of the Landeskrankenkasse in St. Pölten was then a little more successful, although it took some time, but the necessary form was put on there. After the submission, nothing happened for a very long time, and after many causes a negative decision has finally come. On the grounds of this rejection, I have seen very clearly that the agent did not recognise or perhaps did not want to recognize the purpose of this promotion. In all cases, the holding brought an action before the Court of First Instance on this negative decision in due time. In May, the re-enter will already have a year of her professional life. Of course, all those involved are very concerned about whether this support will perhaps be approved and perhaps even paid out by this date. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This example shows us that the best intentions of the legislator do not always bring the desired success. At this point, I would like to appeal first and foremost to the employers that they are setting up enhanced activities for those who want to get back into work after the education phase, that they help those who return from the karenz leave. And I would also like to motivate them to take advantage of this re-entry aid from the federal government. If it is to become particularly difficult and complicated, I appeal to them not to be discouraged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8997	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9018	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As part of this debate on equal treatment, I would like to deal with the compatibility of family and work. A very important point in the discussion about women or mothers and their living conditions is the question of childcare. Since there is a great deal of competence here with the countries and communities, I would particularly like to address the situation in Upper Austria. This issue has always been very important for the ÖVP. Good child care is one of the main points of the decision for mothers whether or not they can re-enter to work after retirement. In Upper Austria, a significant improvement in the situation has been achieved in recent years. I am convinced that this is, of course, the case in other federal states. In Upper Austria, a total of 40,000 children are currently being cared for in 705 annual kindergartens, 267 of which are visiting one of the 15 special educational kindergartens. In the last few years, there has also been enormous quality improvements in addition to the full equipment with kindergartens in Upper Austria. In 1997/98 there were 274 half-day farms on 424 all-day kindergartens. All forms of operation shall be understood by day-to-day kindergartens with a continuous operation, including lunch provision. In terms of shares, the ratio was 60 : 40. Over the last few years, the proportion of day-to-day farms has increased enormously, towards 70: 30 percent. Considering the use of the offer by the visitors, this shift becomes apparent. Today, around 7 percent more children will be cared for in all day kindergartens than two years ago. A regional comparison also shows a clear turning to the all-day kindergarten. Currently, only two districts have a full-day kindergarten share of less than 50 percent, and there has been an increase in the share of day-to-day kindergartens in all districts. As a further improvement, it should be stressed that a quarter of the children can be taken to kindergarten just before 7 a.m. I am saying this because the SPÖ has repeatedly claimed that there is nothing going on about childcare, kindergarten facilities and everything has been so badly ordered. Finally, I would like to say that we must certainly bring about a significant improvement in the situation for women in general. However, two areas are still to be discussed: One point is the establishment of farm kindergartens, also in tourist regions, and the other point is that the system of day mothers in the federal states is still very weak. We also need to create incentives for the economy to address the needs of young mothers and young families even more. Family-friendly businesses are particularly recognized and excellent. Our businesses are increasingly open to the needs of young families because they can only gain young and motivated employees. I believe that this is an essential step towards further improvement for women, especially for mothers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9070	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish the final word? - That's not the case. I ask the honourable Members to take their seats, because we are now voting, and I will do so separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-74 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 451 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his report 452 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – It is also accepted by the majority. 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Perception Report (III-52 of the Supplements) on the reform of health care and the financing of hospitals (497 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9140	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Herzegovina is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9167	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be nice and interesting once, if the appropriate Minister of State, Mr. Haupt, were to devote something to the House during the debate on health issues. I'd like to invite him to that. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's what he makes enough!]] But he obviously has no time, he has discussions with Vienna's top candidate, Partik-Pablé. – Mr Minister, you obviously do not listen at all when a Member speaks here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Secretary of State is here anyway!]] We must take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors' report on the reform of health care: Performance-oriented hospital funding has actually proved successful – a reform that was launched a few years ago. It is about the fact that hospital services are no longer taken into account in days, but only in terms of performance. The individual health care provided is the basis for the calculation. This has resulted in a decrease in the average length of stay of patients in hospitals. He's not dramatic, but he's still recognizable. Compared with the years 1994 and 1998, the length of stay fell from 7.3 days to 6.6 days. This also has a human component: No one is in a hospital with special enthusiasm, and it is always very important that patients can go home as soon as possible. It used to be so that sometimes the patient was not released from the hospital on Friday, but the final visit took place on Monday. This was not in the sense of the patients, but according to the old system, it has brought benefits to the hospitals. Especially in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, social-democratic health politicians have brought forward this reform. We need to congratulate you on this. In the interests of the population, a really very exemplary health policy was made in Vienna, a policy that is recognized worldwide and to which we can truly congratulate fully. And that is what I am saying as the Steirer about Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, which is not a matter of course. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a result, the Court of Auditors also recommends further development of reforms. Single: What does this look like in view of the non-responsible policy of the government parties? – It is significant that the Minister of Finance did not find a single word in his budget speech on health policy. He said something in the direction that his budget was not poison, but medicine. Ladies and gentlemen! That was not to be surpassed by embarrassment. This is probably not a health policy statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As regards health finance related to Styria: This – and this is confirmed by Styrian informants in the committee – leads to a shift from the federal government to the countries. Thus, for example, 700 million schilling is missing for health personnel in Styria – which is certainly also true for other federal states. This means for example: for the anaesthesia in Graz minus 62.5 million schilling; Voitsberg Hospital: Care minus 8.8 million schilling, with doctors minus 16.2 million schilling, with surgery in Bad Aussee minus 12.7 million schilling and so on. This means, of course, a reduction in staff in Styrian hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen of the Styrian ÖVP! What did Chief of State Klasnic write to the 15 000 KAGes officials in October 2000, before the country election? – Mrs Landeshupt again emphasises that uncertainties relating to the continued existence of state hospitals or jobs are completely inappropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! The financial director of the Steermärkische Krankengesellschaft says something completely different. He says, of course, that when 700 million schillings are removed, it will result in redundancies, as you so beautifully formulate them. What does that mean for employees? – personnel reduction. What does that mean for the patients? – Less service, less medical care, less care in the hospital. – That is it, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, what you have to do with health policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this light, the words of the Minister of Finance in his budget speech are white cynicism, and the standing ovations of blue and black are really not to be surpassed by ridiculousness.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9243	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9265	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! In its report on the financing of hospitals, the Court of Auditors has made two points very clear: Firstly, the cost accounting model introduced since 1997 is still far from its former objectives, particularly as regards the comparability of services and costs. The fact that costs have nevertheless fallen as desired is due to very different influences, for example, to the fall in inflation rate since 1997. As a result, staff costs and other costs increased more slowly than in previous years. Secondly, this Court of Auditors report has made it clear that the objectives of the reform need to be further pursued. It must simply be tried to make the costs in the hospitals more comparable: on the one hand, between the individual federal states and, on the other hand, between the hospitals and the extramural services. Only in this way can you see the structures, only in this way can you set priorities, and only in this way can you make changes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Langsner recently asked the question in the 'FORMAT': "Should medical care be the same for all in the future?" – Faith I think that this question is too short, because of course we all want an equivalent medical care for all Austrians. But it's not that simple! Luckily, as I mean, we live longer and longer, but that also means that more and more people need more and more medical care. And medicine also continues to develop and therefore costs more and more. On the other hand, there are fewer and fewer young people who are supposed to pay more and more for this system. This is the same as in the case of pensions. So if you want the same medicine for everyone, you have to of course have another question to ask, namely: How do we keep fewer and fewer net payers in the mood so that they become more and more involved in the general welfare? And that's the point: Only when hospitals and health insurance companies save and if they manage transparently will the necessary basic consensus remain. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If Sallmutter & Co does not understand this, then neither the Social Minister nor the ÖVP or the FPÖ will tip the social system, but angry citizens will do so because they will no longer be sold for stupid! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly address the motion for a resolution which will be tabled by my colleague, Hartinger, shortly. We or my party are concerned about avoiding cases of hardship that arise in the public service for officials who lose one third of their salary after six months of severe illness, for example in the case of cancer. My party will be pleased to accept this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9328	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. Your speaking time is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9349	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. We heard today: "A good day begins with a good budget." – If I remember what we have been told in the health policy sector in recent weeks and months, I would rather say: A good day? – I would prefer a breakfast egg to what we had to experience here! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The debate on ambulance charges and accident pensions – and as you will be very difficult to contradict to me – has taken on a form of chaos that really needs to be called evil and diletantic. There has been nothing happening here except uncertainty, misappropriation on the sale and revocation of announcements! If you consider that the regulation on how to handle these ambulance charges could only leave the ministry today – if it is already out by post at all – then you must admit that only speaks volumes. I understand that health policy is not easy. I am equally clear about the fact that health policy has to deal with strong lobbies and is also facing strong opposition – often in the countries. Nevertheless, our health policy – or more precisely: the health policy of the Federal Government – can be very critical when you look at the facts that the Court of Auditors thankfully made so clear. If you evaluate the benefits and consider the expectations associated with the introduction of performance-oriented hospital financing, you can only agree if the Court of Auditors writes: "It was a first step." – I say: It was a first hesitant and somewhat left-wing step that many more measures must follow in order to really do something for patients and health care. I can't count everything taxative now, that'd take the speaking time. I would just like to make a few points here. There are massive difficulties in comparing services between individual hospitals and massive difficulties in comparing federal health services in the stationary sector. But that was – I remember It's the intention of this LKF system. The fact that these benefits cannot be compared is due to the different documentation behaviour and to the different donations of the Landesfonds, and this also results in different points of performance and indistinct pay. The fact that this makes long-term political planning and governance more difficult seems logical, but it would have to be affected at last! The desired reduction in multiple and double examinations, which could also have contributed to a non-patient, not the insured, taxing better budget policy, was a shy approach and without effect. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors also criticises the need-oriented performance planning, because without it, a politically sustainable, sustainable health planning is difficult, and quality assurance is also made difficult. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The acceleration of structural improvement measures has also been very slow, and the Federal Government is relatively debilitating when structural funds from the Structural Funds are used less for these structural measures of the countries but are not intended to reorganise national budgets. That can't be good! That is to say, the opportunities for an inclusive health system, the opportunities for federal uniform quality standards and the chance of a better balance between stationary and outpatient care have not been sufficiently used, and this is a polite formulation; a slightly stronger one would be possible. I don't underestimate the fact that there is resistance. However, one should perhaps debate in Parliament again the fact that federalism is good and beautiful and necessary, but partly also has disadvantages. But even the insight into this does not seem to me to be the least guarantee of positive change and that those responsible for the benefit of the patient will become a little more active. I also believe that the health objectives need to be defined more precisely. And if one does not dare to put up the latte with courage, then at least partial targets should be formulated, but linked to a clear set of priorities and a binding period of time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would also be necessary – everyone agrees on this but also lacks courage – to reduce the funding limits if not to construct a single funding stop in the health care sector. And the responsibilities must also be compressed. Everyone knows! I'm just wondering why nobody's doing it. I think there is another problem with excessive federalism. It must not depend on the character characteristics, elbow technology, eloquence and the means of enforcement of various national leaders and their financial representatives, which health and social policy facts have been put to patients from the federal state to the federal state! It's not worthy of a republic! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another, very central problem for me is the performance assessment in terms of mainly metric and quantitative aspects. This means that a major factor in medicine, namely the time factor, is completely undervalued, but this is, of course, a manco that the Court of Auditors can hardly bring into its criticism. They know – perhaps better than some Members of the gallery – how important patient discussions, the information of patients and conversations with relatives are to ensure that correct diagnosis can be made and personal therapy as tailored as possible. For this one needs time, time to think, but this time to think is not found in the LKF. In this, machine-intensive, pharmaceutical, investment-intensive subjects are slightly overvalued against others, and this runs counter to the entire health care plan. I mean, these too are medical economic problems, because the factor time, the conversation, the contribution to the patient and the patient listening are something that has quality characteristics that for a health system are quite related to input, output and efficiency. To make it short: Everything that happened was just a first step. And if I think about how often the politics is talking about how much heart and brain belong together, I have to say: You hear this so often that you hardly believe in it anymore. I would be pleased if at least one of these organs, hearts or brains, could occasionally see the light of the day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9486	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9507	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, a few remarks to my dear colleague from Styria, to Mr Deputies' herbs. Mr Herzegovina has referred to government policy as a non-responsible policy; he has meant that our policy is poison. He thus replied to the statement made by our Minister of Finance, who said that our policy was not poison, but medicine, which I can only confirm. But it seems you don't see that, Mr. Herb. I see something else, my dear colleague, herbs. Her party colleague, Mr. Health Minister Dörflinger in Styria, makes a policy that is poison. Unfortunately, you don't recognize that. Their lack of awareness as regards health policy in Styria is reflected in the fact that you are a major health politician in Styria and are meeting up with findings on things that your socialist health council is actually responsible for. Unfortunately, no herb has yet grown against her ignorance. I hope we find one! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Their ignorance is also reflected in the fact that you say: Okay, there's a shortage of 700 million schilling, so there's a need to reduce personnel in Styria. – I can tell you: This is only necessary because your colleague, Mr Landesrat Dörflinger, is not able to finally adopt structural measures. Our Federal Government is constantly setting up structural measures. Perhaps your colleague should take an example of this. Now to the Court of Auditors report: The Court of Auditors generally does not provide a good witness in its report of the hospital financing introduced in 1997. It means that targets have only been partially achieved, that the reduction of cost increases has essentially been achieved independently of the reforms, that the settlement arrangements of the Land Fund are not comparable, and that is why the Bundesstructural Commission lacks the impact. The 1997/2000 reform package was a first step. The Court of Auditors' recommendation to exempt countries from financing structural measures was already fully in line with the new Article 15a agreements. Our government takes these recommendations seriously from the Court of Auditors and implements them. I would like to thank you, Mr President Dr. Fierce, and your staff very much for this report. I welcome the praise you have expressed in the committee of our government, the Secretary of State and the Minister of State. But the report should also be praised, because I know how complex this matter is, how difficult it is to present the contexts, how untransparent the system is, and how difficult it is to list it all. We need transparency, in particular with regard to the quality of medical services and also with regard to costs. To ensure medical quality care is only possible through uniform quality standards and Bench Marking. It should not happen, for example, that patients are in the acute hospital longer than is necessary due to financial incentives or that medical interventions are not necessary. In Austria, for example, a third of many heart pace makers are implanted. In Austria, 40 percent too many tonsils are operated on. Professor Grünewald will know that. In Austria, we also prescribe too many drugs compared to Western European countries. It is important to establish quality standards for the protection of patients, particularly in cooperation with the insurance companies, doctors and hospitals. In particular, the Court of Auditors also stresses the importance of the federal government in ensuring and improving quality in Austrian health care. We have therefore also taken relevant measures in Article 15a agreements. Our Secretary of State and Minister of State are not only committed to these recommendations, but also to implementing them. However, we also implement many other things when it comes to medical quality care. If, by means of treatment in hospitals, it is no longer possible to restore the full integrity of victims of accidents, at least the possibility for those servants to benefit from an accident or a traffic pension. And because a prejudice was created in the Court of Auditors, I can make the following request here: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Calls and counter-calls between Deputies Vergestnitsch, Edler and Ing. Westenthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You see, we are committed – especially to a quiet, quality and human policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9618	The one by Madame Magnifice. Hartinger's motion for a resolution adopted by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Kohl, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Dr. Feurstein, Gaugg, Lentsch, Mag. Hartinger, Kurzbauer and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Faul. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9642	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee's debate on the Court of Auditors' report on the reform of the health care system actually reflected the positive outcome that the Court of Auditors had given. In the end, some approaches concerned the use of structural resources or the acquisition of new ways of thinking, for example in the meaningful exchange of data – which has already been said today – between the fund hospitals and the main association. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] The Court of Auditors calls for this exchange of data. It also welcomes the completion of the Austrian health plan, which the countries urgently need – I can say for the Styria – and which, in addition to the many tasks of the Structural Funds as its main task for quality assurance throughout the country, he calls for uniformly. And finally, the most important knowledge: It urgently calls for the simplification and standardisation of performance-oriented health care because we have recognised that too much money is still being used in the administration. The attempt of the FPÖ-Collegin Beate Hartinger to give the Court of Auditors a good effect to one of the Vienna municipal council elections actually went into vain, since none of the invited experts had heard of an investigation or a comparison of European cities regarding their health standards or had seen the city of Vienna in a final light position. Unfortunately, I do not yet know this comparison. Mrs Hartinger! However, I should like to mention a well-founded, truly quoting investigation: This is the WHO's investigation, and it is an excellent witness to the Austrian health system and thus also the city of Vienna. Austria is one of the ten richest countries in the world, but it spends only 8.3 percent of GDP on health, in about $2,000 per capita. If you want some comparisons: For example, the US needs $4,500 per capita or 13.9 per cent of GDP, Germany and Switzerland, for example, still account for $3,000. Who is surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrians, together with the Finns, are most satisfied with their health care with 70 percent – and this with an average of 40 percent of OECD countries? In the context of health policy, a word on budget development in the health insurance sector and the deficit that has already been addressed today. In his investigation EUROSTAT states two main causes: on the one hand, a revenue-based cause, which the Minister of Finance today completely ignored in his budget speech and which Mr Lentsch destroyed somewhere in the field of co-responsibility, and on the other hand, an expenditure-side. Here's an interesting insight: If income had developed parallel to gross domestic product, health insurance in 2000 – and beyond – could have been positive or at least black figures. Mr State Secretary! Why Defend You're against a contribution adjustment here? On the expenditure side, the costs of institution care are developed because they are covered, also in parallel to revenue. But now it comes: The cost of medical assistance is twice as high as the revenue and the cost of the medication three times as high! Take a conclusion with me! From our point of view, additional revenue or revenue adjustments are necessary. There is also an urgent need for expenditure-side control measures, such as the increased involvement of service providers in economic responsibility. Finally, let me add to the solidarity health insurance as we now have it and, as we ask it, to the private economic health insurance you want in order to tell the Austrians what is relevant to them. We demand equal benefits for all entitled persons – on your side, however, the health status, age, gender and ultimately the premium level will be the indicators for medical care. On our side are a legal claim for benefits, a generally non-contributory co-insurance of the unemployed and a stable but also manageable contribution rate. On your side, however, there is only one contractual and at any time announceable claim for benefit: Reward payment for the spouse, premium payment for the studying children, premiums that individual groups of persons and especially the weaker in our country cannot afford. On our side, everyone who meets the conditions laid down in the law is insured. On your side is only the insurance that is accepted by the insurance; and that can be terminated at any time. My dear gentlemen on the government bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! We will not stop fighting for our side and tell the people in Austria on which side they will be safer in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9711	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9733	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with the Court of Auditors' report today. It is about the reform of health care and the financing of hospitals. I would like to deal with the Structural Fund in my speech. This fund has its own legal personality, with a term of one year. January 1997 to 31. ==References== This fund was disbursed with 1.75 billion schilling per year from federal funds; the structural committee, set up under the reform agreement, was the Federal majority. The Court of Auditors' audit took place from February to April 1999. In principle, the Court of Auditors considered the majority of the federal government to be appropriate in the Structural Commission. On the other hand, according to the Court of Auditors of the Structural Funds, only partially fulfilled its tasks, especially because there was no proper handling in the cooperation or agreement between the Federal Government and the countries. There are therefore some recommendations from the Court of Auditors. I would like to give some examples here: the creation of clear organisation arrangements for the sanctions mechanism or the rethinking of the further use of structural funds, the best possible completion of the Austrian health plan, the simplification of the LKF and, finally, the resolution of the KRAZAF lack of the right to exist. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the financial compensatory negotiations and the decision-making of the Financial Balance Act of 14 December 2016. It also regulated the best possible provision for the population with the services of hospitals. In addition to these benefits, the funding was also ensured by the federal government and social security institutions. This arrangement was made in a new Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries and has been since 1. In force this year. The essential content of this Article 15a agreement is the further development of health care in the sense of restructuring. I would also like to draw attention to the objectives of the Contracting Parties and to draw up two points. First: In the future, high-quality health care will be ensured for all people who are freely accessible and equivalent. Secondly, The financing of health care should be ensured taking into account the financial conditions and possible cost savings. Important, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, this Article 15a agreement also regulates the establishment of the Structural Funds and its allocation. This agreement introduces a series of recommendations from the Court of Auditors on the Structural Funds. Finally, thank you very much to the officials of the Court of Auditors. We will be happy to give our approval to this report by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9779	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9800	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that Mr Kurzbauer has given the report his approval. I find it less understandable that the SPÖ MEPs are criticising failure, because the test period is only a period when the Social Democrats were at the government. So today, at the speaker's desk, you criticized your own failures. They have not implemented the health reform. The introduction of the LKF after a 17-year provisorium of the KRAZAF was a long-term overdue thing. But the introduction of the LKF, the performance-oriented health care fund, alone could not have prevented the fulminant cost increase in the hospital area. The Court of Auditors is quite clear that you did not succeed with this introduction of the LKF, but rather that the reduction of the cost increase to 4.4 per cent a year – from about 10 per cent earlier – is due to a lower increase in staff costs and a lower rate of inflation. They have failed to implement a structural reform together with the introduction of the benefit-oriented health care system. The structural reform is always and everywhere in place. These have But they haven't made them until today; we're already on our way there. We need to strengthen the extra-mural sector, the introduction of group practices is imminent. We will direct the patient stream where the patient is equally well cared for with equally good quality, namely from the spiral-sampling area to the established practical doctors and the specialist doctors. This is also the reason why we have introduced this steering instrument ambulance fee. We're sure we'll save a lot of money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, the criticism of Mr Kräber from SPÖ, who said that the Minister for Finance had not said anything about health policy at all. I would like to say the following: Read on page 20 the rehabilitation of social security! The guarantee that our health care will work is a social security that is financially healthy. To this end, the Minister of Finance has made quite clear points today. Please read about the professional leadership in social security! – Mr Sallmutter cannot be told that he has a professional leadership. That is why he is also overdue, and we will have to ensure that we finally get a professional leadership in this area! In addition, I am pleased that we are also making a correction to the accident pension tax today. The application has already been submitted. I hope that the opposition parties will be supported, that toughness cases will be compensated here and that the expert group that will be used will achieve a reasonable outcome. It is not to be seen why someone who suffers a leisure accident – that is what the social democrats have done with different accident insurance – pays taxes for accident insurance. [[Abg. Leikam: It's no longer going on!]] But if he suffers an accident in work, then don't! [[Abg. Brix: Don't you find any difference? That's what you're serious about? Are you a doctor? Shame!]] If someone receives an invalidity pension, he also pays taxes. That's what you introduced. There you can scream, as much as you want, that's your work! You don't need to boast here that you're smiling with the disabled. They have always taxed the disabled; Finally, they introduced the taxation of accident pensions in 1989 and failed to do so. We're making a repair now. The accident pensioners will thank us.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9877	Next, Mr. State Secretary, Dr. Waneck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9898	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I will allow myself to address some of the points of criticism of the Court of Auditors. I think that's also the part that's being discussed here. When I look at the points in the speeches of the previous speakers: These are a statement of the list of shortcomings in recent times, since, as my previous speaker mentioned, the Court of Auditors' report refers to the years 1997 to 1999. There is no doubt that the introduction of the LKF scheme was a step in the right direction, although the Court of Auditors is completely right in its criticism when it says that this introduction alone has not yet led to any cost reduction and that the objectives have only been partially met. In fact, however, I may historically recall that the primary purpose of the ministry at that time was to develop a database to achieve a performance-related financing in the future. Only the link with the financing itself has given the possibility of implementation. Therefore, the LKF scheme is not only part of this reform package, but also some other measures were necessary, such as the binding introduction of the Austrian Hospital Plan and the Great Equipment Plan. The fact that only a very different implementation of the LKF system has taken place by country is that nine different country funds have been installed, which do not meet all the requirements, namely those requirements, as mentioned in the Court of Auditors' report: to distribute as much as possible via a central fund and, as far as possible, via control measures. This indirectly results in the fact that only partial amounts of the non-fixed funds flow back to the treatment of non-insuranced patients from the EU foreign country and therefore a lot of money is missing from the individual countries, i.e. at a double-digit million level. In the new Article 15a agreement, we have redefined the Structural Funds' tasks accordingly, as I will briefly present them, and we will also develop and optimise the LKF system, especially the recommendation on the general suspension of cases, as it has come from the Court of Auditors. We have taken this into account when we now offer such a project in the form of pilot projects as daily clinical services and hope to achieve the desired and also expected effect from the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned today that there are many funds in the field of hospitalization, but also in the field of health insurance, which are not clearly defined, because there is no corresponding cost transparency. Thus, we know that about 20 percent of the resources in the hospitals in the interface area – that is, at the interface from the stationary to the outpatient and the extramural area – can remain and be used better. In this context, I should like to point out that in Vienna, for example, the level of coverage in the ambulance sector is only 17 percent. The rest is carried out via controlling funds, although health insurance financing in Vienna is above average higher than 25 percent compared to the other federal states. This is also reflected in the study on 12 European metropolises, in which Vienna has voluntarily participated, in which the health measures are quite adequate and the health status of the population of Vienna is considered to be good, but the financial effort to do so is in no way in relation to how it has led to the same result in other metropolises. That means that there is a good condition in general, but the result quality is bad. Ladies and gentlemen! We have accepted the challenge and have also taken into account the Court of Auditors' recommendations in the new Article 15a agreement in relatively difficult negotiations with the federal states, because the negotiations were mainly used to conduct polemics in the individual countries and to threaten hospital closures that did not actually take place. These hospitalisations would have taken place if there had been no agreement or if the old plan had been continued. I can remind you: Under the previous government it has been decided to close 19 hospitals and 50 departments in Austria. We didn't close a single hospital, and we didn't close a single department either. There is no doubt, however, that according to a reasonable use of resources, rationalisation measures are taking place, that services must be offered where they are best offered, and that they are summarized where, if they are dislodged, they do not lead to the corresponding benefits. This applies both to top medical care and general care. We want to achieve the most uniform and best possible supply, but it is also economically and medically useful. We simply have to get away from the fact that in Austria we still have the highest number of hospital stays and the highest number of ambulance visits, which is higher than average. However, we have taken this into account and have provided for shifts in outpatient and extra-mural services, in terms of co-operation between hospitals and co-operations between hospitals and the extra-mural sector. We have also taken regional care into account by providing opportunities in the fields of ophthalmology, urology and orthopaedics in the future, so-called "specialities" that do not necessarily require the installation of an entire department but are closely related to such a highly qualified department. We have also taken appropriate measures in the field of daily clinics so that hospital stays can be reduced. Finally, we have achieved something that represents a complete innovation: We have for the first time reached corresponding agreements with the federal states in the field of Psychiatry, Acutgeriatry, Remobilisation and Palliative Medicine. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that we have very probably accepted the order to re-design the stagnant system of the last ten to 20 years. I am also very grateful that the delay in the interpretation of the regulation on the future treatment contribution has been mentioned very briefly, which, please, is nothing but a follow-up, an equal treatment of the local health insurance fund with regard to the already existing treatment contributions to the so-called small cash offices. So that's nothing new. But: What would have been? – In this respect, the following can be seen: It would have been the legal mandate of the main association to issue these regulations and no later than the 22nd. In December, when an agreement was reached on this subject, which, knownly, provided for the withdrawal of the in-house ambulatories from this treatment contribution, the announcement should have been made immediately. We have acknowledged thank God in good time that the main association has not acted as it would have been the legal order, and have initiated this from us – of course, with the corresponding legal conditions of an assessment period and the like. This shows exactly where the problem lies, namely the insufficiency and ineffectiveness of the main association. Therefore, there have been discussions in recent weeks on how to improve this manko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9979	The next speaker is Mr Lexer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10001	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like once again to address this issue, which we have heard several times, in my contribution to the debate today, namely those which arise in the preparation of meaningful comparative calculations. The different methods of calculation, growing historical developments in individual health systems at country level and the various structural measures make it difficult to compare and compare care facilities and systems. A multi-annual comparison is also difficult because the documentation of the national funds cannot be included in the records of the Ministry and the main association is also not provided or can not be provided with the necessary comparable figures. This means that shorter periods of stay in hospitals, for example, result in higher post-care costs and that positive changes only bring cosmetic transparency, but not actual cost reductions. Another problem is that a delimitation between current operating expenditure and investment is associated with disproportionately high expenditure due to the different budgetary structures of the countries, so that it is better to give up because this is not justified. As long as no continuous transnational and cross-sectoral diagnostic and performance documentation can be developed, it is also difficult to establish a functioning controlling. In order to further develop the reform efforts towards an integrative health system, the Court of Auditors recommends, on the one hand, continuous care systems for patients – from the first visit to the medical profession, to the hospital stay, to the aftercare in nursing homes and to the established doctors – on the other hand, systems should be developed and tested, on the other hand, how the various areas can be better worked together and how joint performance and cost calculations can be performed. In my opinion, this inclusive perspective and economic calculation also include preventive measures that contribute to the overall improvement of our population's health and represent huge savings potential in the health sector. This has only recently been made clear to us by a study in the field of sports. It clearly shows how much can be saved, what large sums are possible when preventive measures are taken in time. Finally, every schilling used in the care of the provision brings not only lower costs for the general public and budgetary redundancies, but also a more vital society and healthy people. I don't think anyone can be against it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10049	Next, the President of the Court of Auditors speaks Dr. Fierce. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10070	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Court of Auditors has carried out an examination of the newly introduced service-oriented health care facilities in 1997, with a view to examining whether the right path was taken in 1997 or not. The outcome of the audit, which you will find in a report, has shown that the introduction of performance-oriented health care facilities has achieved numerous improvements, but that it has not succeeded in achieving all the objectives that have been set. The Court of Auditors has found that: On the other hand, there are considerable savings potential, but on the other hand, the net taxation of the countries could not be substantially changed. The success of the Court of Auditors' report therefore leads to the need for further development of the reform, which was launched in 1997. We have already made this very clear in the results of the examination, which we sent to the audited bodies. From our side it was quite positive to note that the audited bodies responded relatively quickly, with a new Article 15a agreement in 2000 and with a hospital law novelle. The effects of these new regulations have become effective following the presentation of the report submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Council in December 2000. It has also been extremely positive for the Court of Auditors that it has found itself in the report of the Committee on Budgets in the wake of this Article 15a agreement. It says literally there – with reference to the countries which, of course, have a very special and particularly strong position in an Article 15a agreement –: However, the countries indicated their willingness to take into account the criticisms and recommendations made by the Court of Auditors as part of their national fund schemes. - Quote. One does not always find such a willingness – even if it is kept in writing – and I believe that this is enough evidence that the Court of Auditors is first of all right, second of all has drawn the right conclusions and third of all has met with the acceptance of those concerned. However, despite the new Article 15a agreement I mentioned, the Court of Auditors still considers that there is a lot to be done in order to finally achieve those objectives which have been met since 1997. I should just like to mention the following key points here: the harmonisation of the accounting arrangements of the Landesfonds, the completion of the Austrian health plan, the simplification of the system of performance-oriented health care facilities, and, last but not least, the link between all performance areas in the system, i.e. the extramural, the outpatient, the daily clinic and the stationary. Some speakers have already addressed this issue, and if I have understood their words correctly, then we want to accept this problem as well, and we want to bring this problem to a solution. I can therefore appeal to all those concerned based on our report – these are the Federation, the countries and, of course, the respective legislative bodies of the countries and also of the federal government – and I can call on everyone to continue this path. The Court of Auditors' report has shown that the right path was taken in 1997. But there are still stumbling stones on this road to reach the goal. We should all make our contribution to the removal of these stumbling stones in the interests of health-economically appropriate and high-quality health care for our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10125	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10146	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr State Secretary! Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to take on board the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Westenthal, Mr Khol, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Feurstein, to say a few short words. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You just need to say: I agree! That's all!]] A few brief words, Mr Westenthaler, that does not mean that I can start with the request. But I don't think your former party observer can start much with the request either. His statement in the "press hour" was clear: The accident pensioners are missing in the months of January, February, March 1 000, 2 000, 3 000 S in the cash register. And these are not the cases you want to describe here, there are other cases, and we will have the opportunity to discuss them in the context of the debate on setting deadlines for the Greens' request. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Too late! Too late!]] These are not the cases you want to describe here, Mr Westenthaler, but that is also the case of all those accident pensioners who now have to wait in January, February, March and, if you want to do so, also in April, May, June, until the working group results in July, whether they are among those hard cases that the working group will have found out. And now I'm going to tell you one more thing about this working group: They commissioned a working group, which had already been working and said in its report on social security: This will lead to hardness. – Yes, Mr Mazal said, I said that at the time, and that is to be understood. And if he asks what he can do with the proposal of Haider, which you are now making here in this proposal, interestingly also the ÖVP, the aim of the working group, he said he could not start with the proposal of Haider. And he also knows why, because the implementation of Haider's proposal would certainly be very problematic – that is also described on page 1 of your motion for a resolution – because it would create completely different conditions and benefits within an insurance performance and a claim. That's why you're not doing what you're planning. You, Mr Westenthaler and Mr Khol, are simply and gripping to get over the round of the elections, then to let it pass for a few months, and then you will find that the hardening fund – and Mr Feurstein knows that – has actually been created for other things than the hardships that you are now creating with a wide legal deterioration for accident pensioners. That is why, Mr Feurstein, no matter how much you donate it, because not every single case can and should be reviewed. And secondly, the hardness fund is not adequately taught. Ladies and gentlemen! This request therefore corresponds to what Mr Finanzminister meant by "I have a dream": He's a dream dancer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10197	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10218	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr Oellinger! I think it is primarily for you to make a quick request to dance before the election, which does not fit you. But enough about the request. [[Abg. Oillinger: You don't need to make that bad, it's bad!]] In 1997, under the then Minister Christa Krammer, the reform of hospital financing and the introduction of the LKF was speeded up. We agreed to this introduction at the time, and we had very clear ideas. The LKF should be a suitable basis for the collection of treatment services and for the settlement of treatment services. The objective was, on the one hand, to reduce the disproportionate cost development and, on the other hand, structural nature. Quite simply, one wanted to know what to do where and how to structure the supply and access to all possible medical services for the population. All of this should be tackled in the form of the so-called reform agreements between the federal government and the country. And here, ladies and gentlemen, the fight began, I do not want to say, the fight, because with the cover of social security contributions, a large part of the financing burden was carried out to the countries – which naturally resisted. The structural commission set up as a coordinating body in the Federal Republic of Germany proved to be incapable and toothless. An example: The following Minister of Health, Mrs Eleonora Hostasch, said on a request from us at the time: No hospital in Austria – she quoted the Labour Inspectorate – adheres to the Hospital Working Time Act. There was also no sanctions mechanism. The law was simply not complied with in the countries, because the countries were moaning under the financial burden, so that in some countries funds, which were actually intended for the hospitals, were estranged for the renovation of their own budgets. The performance of the ICD-9 codes with different point evaluations was more similar to a lottery game with a collection bonus in the countries. Conclusion: The Court of Auditors confirmed our long-standing criticism – this is evident in the colour of the cover. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[The speaker shall keep the Court of Auditors' report up to date.]] And this "color card", ladies and gentlemen, has now been put into play with the launch of the new government. As an example of this, I can tell you that the Minister, Head of State's attempt to extend the temporary approval of a department which has had serious shortcomings, has already been found by the appeal to the Administrative Court. In other words, there was a first small, hesitant step towards a reform, but now it is really time to take decisive steps. And our demand for a single financier in health care continues to be true. What I am particularly pleased about, however, is the new structural developments developed by the Secretary of State and his team and are now taking on board, namely the development of cooperation models between different hospitals, large-scale cooperation between hospitals and extra-mural areas – at last, these two structures, something that we have always called for – are being completed, approval of specialist and dislodged day clinics, resulting in a break-up of old, rigid forms of health care, special assurance of quality in the Austrian healthcare system and development of standards and quality monitoring. Ladies and gentlemen! My group has begun to reform this country. We health policymakers have begun to reform the health care system. We stand for performance transparency, cost-truth and quality control, and we are not hindered by rigid, anti-reform groups and organisations that are only interested in their own preservation of power!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10271	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10292	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs Povysil, you have just said that you have taken action because you want to reform the state. But this reform, which you are presenting, cannot be needed by Austria, and therefore Austria needs the opposition that is against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Pumberger! You said how wonderful you are to rule. We're "fixing" the accident pension tax, you claimed here today. If you call it repairing what is contained in this motion for a resolution, I do not know. In my opinion, this motion for a resolution is not even worth the paper on which it stands. To this end, when I read here: Based on experience now available, it has been shown that the taxation of accident pensions has led to severe cases. - But no, you get it now?- Oh, my God! I'm going to tell you how long we've known this and you already know it, and I'm going to give you the proof. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also believe that it is a matter of detecting the hardness compensation that can be granted. In other words, it is not even certain whether you will even grant a hardness compensation, you will first see if it can be granted at all. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Reactive!]] Here comes the circle of this non-social policy that you make. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because, in this context, there is a constant mention of a hardness fund: We do not need a hardness fund for such measures. People need something completely different. They need justice if they are put the money out of their pocket, justice – and not alms from a fund that might be empty out for a while. That's not it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will be able to understand what I am telling you now, because you may also remember how it all came about. In November 2000, the budget accompanying law has been adopted, always under the title of social security, and you have praised this project on the green clover. Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel said that there would be no change in the overall approach to social security and justice. Very soon, however, displeased, because of course you also knew that this package is a cruel one, one at the expense of the poor and the poorest. And German Chancellor Schüssel said a few days later that you had to check what you could afford. This means not a right of people to social benefits, but: If we don't have any more money, there won't be any more. - That's how you rule! That's your policy! Mr Feurstein has defended the taxation of accident pensions. He said: I think the accident pensioners are well advised when they say yes, we are willing to bring this victim. – That's probably not how politics can be done. Federal Minister Sickl defended this non-social package. Klubobmann Khol has forgotten his humanist quotations and written to the ÖAR, the umbrella association of the disabled organisations: Unfortunately, the adjustment of the budgetary situation in Austria also requires painful measures in all areas. We now know what measures these are: People with 14 000 s of pension and accident pension suddenly lose over 10,000 s a year. The measures of your social package look like this! You knew all this exactly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The people concerned have understood everything right away. They have responded – but you have not responded. We have predicted here that accident pensioners pay a hundred times more in the budget than, for example, Foundation billionaires. SPÖ has insisted that disabled organisations were involved in the 2001 budget consultation. These have made the effects clear to you. They cynically finished these disabled representatives and made fun of them. They knew exactly what was going to happen here. Something very special: Mrs Steibl, Mr Tancsits and Mr Spindelegger! Above all, you must have known what is going on, because you have agreed to a request from the ÖAAB for accident pensions, which was adopted unanimously in November 2000. This request reads as follows: Accident pensions should be treated as compensation benefits. They're payments from a liability. Accident pension tax would be double taxation. An accident pension is not a substitute for lost income. Oversupply by accident pensions can never happen. That's what you've brought in, you've decided! So you knew exactly what you were doing with this accident pension tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] However, because you obviously do not want to really fix this scheme, we are giving you the opportunity to join a SPÖ motion for a resolution that I am submitting to you today. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10394	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Plank has just tabled a motion for a resolution. You won't know what you're voting on if you don't listen. I therefore ask for a little more attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10409	The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit the Government's proposal: Budgetary Support Act 2002 (499 of the Supplements) pursuant to § 25 GOG NR, in such a way as to amend or supplement the already decided non-social taxation of accident pensions by 1. January 2001 will be reversed." Mrs Steibl and your colleagues! Voices You want to make this request, and you can look people back in the eye!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10451	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is also in a material context with regard to the matter of negotiation and therefore also with regard to the debate or the vote. As a further speaker, Mr Ing has spoken. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10476	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a large portion of dual-use, which is brought here by the SPÖ into the discussion about accident pensions when the SPÖ is making itself here and pretending there is no past, as if there were no government participation of the SPÖ in recent years. There has been, for example, 1988, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, which you seem to have forgotten in the current debate on accident pensions. In 1988, with your government, with your Socialist Minister of Finance and with your Socialist Minister for Social Affairs, you introduced the accident pension tax. It was you who have taxed the accident pensions, and therefore you have no credibility today if you claim something else, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To prove this, I quote from the Stoneographic Protocol of 125. Meeting of 13. A speech by your Minister of Finance, Dkfm. Ferdinand Lacina on the introduction of the accident pension tax. He said verbatim – I quote – at that time: "We then found a compromise, not arbitrary, to burden a particular group, but we had in mind that there are two causes of accidents on the one hand, but only one finality on the second, as he formulated at the time. "We have so far had the tax inequality of "accident pensions and invalidity pensions, depending on whether they were accidents at work or accidents at leisure, accidents which have not occurred during working hours or on the way to work." Then he comes to the end and says: "It was the original idea and objective to contribute to equal treatment through the taxation of both." – Minister of Finance Lacina, SPÖ, on the occasion of the introduction of the accident pension tax. This has already been your case of sin, and today you want to claim the opposite. That is not credible, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The difference to today is just that you weren't even willing to think about whether you're wrong at the time, but you just went through it. And you didn't care that people who had met with fate who had to take a reduction. They also reported to you and pointed out that there are severe cases here. You have insisted on your Justament position. That was your way of governing: Once agreed has been decided and should not be corrected. We don't care what people say about it. They went through it, but were then punished by the Constitutional Court, which repealed this regulation in 1992. That's what it was. Your disastrous legal error, which you are responsible for, and not we, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a new style. Re-government also means being in dialogue with the population, and if you see, there are hardships, there are disproportionateities, of course, also, as we are now doing in the form of this request. [[Abg. Edellinger: Scherzkeks!]] If there are severe cases of income below 20,000 s – and there are them because it has told us people – then we will of course stand to eliminate these hardships and to relieve them accordingly. That is what we stand for. This is what the ÖVP stands for, and this is what this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, stands for. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You will not prevent us from doing so, and you must also note that there is a new style of governance, which also corrects disproportionateities accordingly, re-adjusts your mistakes from the past. They have done so often enough and cannot criticise it today if a government rationally re-adjusts and in case of hardship leads to an improvement. They have made laws in this country that have not kept them because they were illegal, such as the transit contract, such as family taxation. It's all been lifted up for you. You didn't think about it at all, and you didn't care what the people were saying. That was a problem because you didn't check your laws. If the government recognises that improvements are necessary, it should carry them through, then in dialogue with the population it should bring about an improvement for the people affected by them. That's a new style, and you won't stop us from doing that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10546	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10568	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already experienced this morning that the Minister of Finance is talking about a budget policy that, in the future, promises the Austrians the blue from heaven. In reality, your Minister of Finance draws the "blue" out of the pocket of your Austrians because they have less and less income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, you do this, especially with the poorest devils in this country, those women and men who have a great physical disability due to an accident at work. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Where's the Gitti-Eder-Tausender?]] I am already used to this by Mr Westenthaler, who, interestingly, is now running second place as a non-Simmeringer on the Simmeringer municipal council list. Maybe he'll be transferred to the town hall. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is particularly disturbing to you!]] Not at all! I am pleased that the FPÖ has "guest workers" in our district and has no Simmeringer available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When Westenthaler speaks from 1988, as always, he says only half-truth, for it is true that in 1988 we tried to increase accident pensions and then carry out proper taxation so that they have more money. [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] When that didn't happen, the decision was taken back. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the best shame there is!]] That's the truth, that's fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us look at the chronology of this decision. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's ridiculous!]] This successful but unsocial federal government is concerned with: How can I get the people out of the bag?, and take a decision by finding out that with 1. The money will be pulled out of the pocket for the victims of the accident. Then, at the same time, the 25th. March appears and the liberals have seen that the "Hump-Dump" policy does not work in Vienna; instead of the "Humpi" or "Dumpi", we need someone else, the top candidate, Dr. Partik-Pablé, has been set up. But you need a support, and then the head of state of Carinthia comes and says: I am against the fact that the pensions of the victims of accidents are taxed, we are doing something! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thanks for the advertising!]] On the same day, Hohes Haus, the ÖVP signals: Njet! Mrs Rauch-Kallat says that this is not at all possible. In the election campaign, too, one has to be man enough not to give in to election arguments. [[Abg. Gaugg: Jarolim, I can only say!]] The People's Party, dear friend Gaugg, had you on the gang band and said: You can't agree with that. Then came the next step: If there is nothing wrong with us, then we are setting up a working group, then we say we are trying to find a solution in a working group. Right after that, Professor Mazal, who belongs to the working group – you have to remember that – says: There is no question at all that this regulation will be repealed! It's a damage! And what are you doing now? There is now a request for this. And I'm asking here and today, Hohes Haus: What does the Vienna leader candidate for the Freedom Party, Dr. Partik-Pablé, say about the fact that the victims of the accident are asked to check out the money for them? Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! Come out and tell me if you're for it or not! You don't want to comment on it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There's a lot to be done if you listen to the carnival speeches of the last carnival prince in Ried in the inner circle, because in the carnival, many fools have freedom to say something. That is why you can also put on a carnival speech there. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Otmar, is it true that Jarolim has told you the untruth?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This issue of the taxation of the pensions of victims of accidents is indeed too serious, Mr Schweitzer! A pensioner who has a monthly pension of 12 000 S and has an accident pension of 3 000 S will be removed from his pocket every year! This must be borne in mind once again, which means 10,000 s a year with a monthly income of 15 000 s! Ladies and gentlemen! It's just unsocial! It's not going any more unsocially! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is it true that the chair parson was an employee of Jarolim?]] Why is this proposal now being tabled? In the Committee on the Court of Auditors – and this is what one must say to the Austrians – the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, the freedom of parliamentarians Burket, Firlinger, Freigaßner, Hartinger, Müller, Neudeck, Schender and the representatives of the ÖVP Mrs Bauer, Mr Großruck, Mr Kurzbauer, Mrs Lentsch, Mr Lexer, Mrs Pecher and Mr Prinz voted against this request because they are in favour of removing the money from the hands of the accident victims. The Austrians are supposed to learn this so that they can see how you really are! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] ==References====External links== March to come and play something for the people, and then the whole thing sleeps in. This example shows: Those parties that put the money out of the bag to the Austrians are the Freeman and the People's Party. Those parties who want to take part in Vienna in order to become stronger should not go on, because then the Viennans are as bad as the Austrians are now.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10745	Mr Grossruck spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10770	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brix has just mistakenly claimed that the ÖVP members and the members of the liberals in the Court of Auditors had voted against an amendment to the accident pension scheme. - That's wrong! We therefore voted against the SPÖ's request, because we considered that this request was not dealt with in the Committee on the Board of Auditors but in the Committee, and because at the same time a Commission was set up to deal with these hardship cases. [[Vivid cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ and the Greens]] That is the truth and not what Mr Brix said, namely that this was a rejection of an amendment to the accident pension scheme.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10821	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Werner Kogler. – Mr Brix, although you spoke about a personal response, you were not involved, and that is why it is not possible. Please, Mr Kogler. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please let a little peace come back! The subject has not yet been completed. Mr Kogler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10860	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Westenthaler, this is already the summit of language creation, which you presented to us today. This is the only area in which you can still have any competence. "Re-Government" obviously means rethinking for you. In more and more wild word cascades, there is an attempt to re-rule as something where one first decides something that is obviously especially needed to make himself here afterwards and to boast that one is correcting so much. And the whole thing will then be sold as a dialogue! But this fits with the concept that you have shaped for the ability to engage in dialogue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you think Austria is a "swine stable"!]] Mr Westenthaler! After this maxim, "rerule" means to produce as much displeasing as possible, in order to be able to correct as much as possible, in order to be able to call out as much dialogue as possible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Quote Pirklhuber: Austria is a "Sweinstall"! Pirklhuber said!]] But your policy looks the same. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The tragic fact is, however, that more and more representatives of your group – and this, unfortunately, does not stop before the Minister of Finance – are serving these words. The budget speech today was a collection of inappropriate comparisons and metaphors looking for the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10920	Mr Kogler! It's 15 o'clock now. I need to ask you if you want to continue your statements later. If not, I ask you to speak a final sentence because I have to interrupt this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10936	Mr Westenthaler has so challenged me, so I would like to continue my remarks later.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10966	I am now interrupting the debate on item 5 of the agenda in order to allow the urgent question to be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure Dr. Eva Glawischnig, Dr. Gabriela Moserund Comrades to the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations on consumer health risks through control chaos and the protection of right-wing breakers (1996/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10999	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 1996/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11316	I give the floor to Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig as a questioner for the reasons for the request, which, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11337	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The keyword was "Rerule" – by Klubobmann Westenthaler –: "Re-government" can also endanger your health. It has been 130 days since the start of the office of the Federal Minister of Health, who has taken over the health and veterinary system from his luckless predecessor Federal Minister Sickl, and one has to say that he has been increasingly noticed in recent weeks by party policy – the removal of Hans Sallmutter from the main association of social security funds, the supply of blue party guests with men's department posts in a women's ministry – but less so to drive consumer health, consumer protection and veterinary systems forward. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Federal Minister has undertaken to remove the sand in the drive of government work to give the highest priority to consumer protection. He has repeatedly pointed out the failure of the past, he has pointed out that acts count rather than words. But the impression has now arisen – and this impression is compacted, the more research is being conducted in this field and the more information is obtained – that in the field of food control and the processing of the so-called pig affair in Austria, there has been a very massive misunderstanding and that Mr. Federal Minister of State, as the top health authority responsible for health and consumer protection, has completely failed. He has to make two massive political accusations to which we will urgently question him today. First allegation: Mr. Federal Minister. Contrary to the legitimate faith and trust of the Austrian population, contrary to all the expectations that have come from eating beef for the show with the Chancellor or with the head of state in Carinthia, contrary to all the legitimate expectations of the Austrian population that food control is massively extended, this is not the case. I would like to justify this in three points: no additional food controls against the background of the discussions of recent weeks, the BSE tests go at the expense of proper food control, the saving course will continue massively and radically, staff, budget will be further saved, and a "Pseudo Food Agency" should calm down cosmetics and cover the real problems we have in this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second central political accusation, Mr Federal Minister, that you must please: Right-wing breakers and food sinners are still systematically protected in Austria. I would also like to explain this with three facts for the time being, and then I will go further into it later. The system of checks throughout the pig mast scandal has so sharp and incredible gaps that it is looking for the same. There is complete chaos in the federal states, there is no central crisis management in your ministry, the federal states "wurscheln" – under quotation marks – in front of themselves, and there are still sharp legal gaps that produce acquittals only on the ongoing band. These two central political accusations, Mr. Federal Minister, cannot be pushed to your predecessors. You've been in office for 130 days, and we think that after these 130 days, it's actually over. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] First, no additional food controls. There have now been 30 000 BSE tests in Austria. We are pleased that there is no positive case under it, but the entire proper food control has been neglected. BSE tests have only been made possible by re-transmission of personnel and budgets in the area in question. This means, however, that in all other food control areas there is a massive lack at all corners and ends: for the budget, for staff, there are no sufficient controls, and all of this against the background of the events of recent weeks. I don't think I have to tell you what happened in the last few weeks. There is a lack of all corners and ends, and there is no additional staff and other effort for proper food control, although we have so much more to examine. Mr. Federal Minister. I would like to remind you once again of the inconsistency of the inconsistency with regard to the pig affair: no additional controls! I would like to quote: In Upper Austria and in Lower Austria we have devastating conditions. It is examined in the Styria of every thirtyth animal, in Upper Austria only every thousandth and in Lower Austria only every two thousandth pig. - Quote. Where does that come from? How could that be? – The answer to this is relatively simple. A Veterinary Director of the Upper Austrian Government says: We would like to control more, but there are too few staff! The Lower Austrians are much more direct, Mr Federal Minister, and say quite clearly who is responsible for this inconceivable control failure. I quote literally: "We adhere to the annual sampling plan set out by the government. Something else has not been arranged for us." "Something else has not been arranged for us." – Of whom has nothing else been arranged? – From you, Minister of State! They have not ordered any additional controls in Lower Austria and Upper Austria. I ask you: How do you explain to the public, how do you explain to a public that is concerned about the background of this meat crisis – even if it must have the impression, caused by your "shoes", by beef eating, there would be no cause for concern – that you have not arranged any additional control? I think that's an inconceivable scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it goes even further, actually through the whole menu. In the field of antibiotic use, we have a problem not only with pigs, but also with the poultice and chicken masts. In addition, I quote again literally: Here it is much worse than the pigs, such as a bacteriologist and also a veterinarian who wants to remain anonymous – also significant for this system –; already the chicks get fed with the water antibiotics after they have hatched. There is also an antibiotic use in trout farming in Austria, antibiotic residues in shrimps, salmon, all imported seafood. Do you think that it is sufficient not to extend controls in the light of the sparse import controls we have in Austria to do nothing at all, not to impose an import ban? Faith You really think that's enough? - I don't think so! It goes even further: Labelling failure. There is no extension of controls in this respect either. Time and again, tests by consumer protectionists on genetically modified components are carried out: 10 percent of foods are illegal with genetically modified soya, for example, "difficult" – under quotation marks – but without marking. But there are no additional controls in this area! In the case of sausages, there are also an alarming figures, for example from Tyrol: 50 percent of the sausages purchased in the supermarkets and butcheries show false compositions, content indications on their names. – Even here there is no extension of controls! Last: In the UK, the foot-and-mouth disease rages. – Other countries have already reacted differently than Austria. Poland, for example, has stopped all imports from the European Union with a ban on imports, and we have a very modest ban on imports of stocks from the UK. However – and that is detectable! – there are large imports to Germany, to Holland, to France, and I ask you: Don't we import anything from Germany, from France, from Holland? Do you think that it is enough to ban imports exclusively via Britain and otherwise not to do anything to order additional controls? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a serious political accusation against you, and you must also make the accusation that you are even intensifying this situation by your savings rate, which, as announced today in the morning, will continue. No additional controls, saving course in the food sector. . I would like to remind you once again of the figures which it means if this savings rate is continued. The zero deficit is based on the account and at the expense of the health of consumers in Austria. Since 1995, the number of staff in the field of food control has fallen by one-fifth. I repeat: down one fifth! [[Abg. Achatz: Who was in the government at that time? Head or who?]] I know that the Federal Minister has only been in office for 130 days, but do you think he has changed anything in this situation since he was in office? On the contrary! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With 1. This figure has been reduced once again in September 2000 and is now less than 200 staff. Mrs. Achatz, is that not a little bit? That is really very worrying! In the veterinary area, we have a similar picture. We also know that even the European Union has criticized Austria. And you, Minister of State, have also very often criticized the last Federal Government. But I have to ask you: What did you do about it? I have an extract from your ministry, a "wonderful" report: What's new in 2001? There is no single word in this report on consumer health and veterinary matters. Isn't that devastating? How do you rate your own minister with his work? [[Abg. Dolinschek: Very good!]] The European Union strongly criticizes us for shortcomings in the veterinary sector. I also quote a few reports: Border controls, animal control facilities: Existing facilities do not meet the requirements of the European Union, equipment is missing, equipment inadequate, general hygiene is extremely inadequate. – Mrs Achatz! How do you argue that a responsible minister in his entire field of work does not respond to these shortcomings at all, does not require any additional control, but continues the savings in the budget for personnel and costs? Has You're not worried about the health of the Austrian population? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Achatz: It was not Minister Head of Government! This criticism is two years old! Mrs Prammer has to ask you this!]] I would like to continue with the second central political accusation against Federal Minister Main: Right-wing breakers, food sinners are still systematically protected. First point: In the field of the review of the so-called pig scandal, there are so sharp, so hair-removing errors and research gaps, and I would like to show you once again what that means. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you think Mr Pirklhuber? It's Pirklhuber!]] Inhibitor tests are carried out. This inhibitor test examines only antibiotics and 26 substances. However, we and all the experts involved know that it is hundreds of active substances that are the true chemical bombs that are the hundreds of illegal substances that have been rebuilt. And also a quote from a veterinarian, club president from Styria, who says: We face this powerless, we do not know at all how to deal with these substances, which no one knows and which are not examined. In this context, a second sharp check gap: How can it be that plants that have been positive in the inhibitor test are negative in the case of sample slaughters? How can that happen? – Another serious lack in this review system, which gives the impression that this is rather a cover-up than a question of information. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the Styria – concrete examples – in Upper Austria and in Carinthia, some locked farms are now allowed to slaughter again. The first test, the famous inhibitor test, was positive, the second test in the slaughtered animal was negative. How can this happen? Was the first test wrong? No, no, no, Here again, massive indications of the scarcity of review failures; the head of the Federal Institute for Veterinary Medicine emphasizes: The samples are already true, only between sampling in the living animal and sampling in the slaughtered animal often take days for up to two weeks. At that time, the medications are discontinued, and then nothing is detectable. All these illegal practices come before the law, and acquittals are then produced on the ongoing tape. Is this, in your opinion, a precautionary health policy, consumer protection policy, Mrs Colleague? - I don't think so! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Achatz: Everything wrong!]] In Germany, things are completely different. In Germany there is a separate special unit, 200 house searches are carried out per week. [[Abg. Achatz: But no single operation locked!]] Especially in your federal state, in Upper Austria, so far, until today, three house searches have been carried out, in Lower Austria 43. Just keep this in mind once! In Germany 200 house searches per week. Isn't there anything wrong? [[Abg. Achatz: And no single operation is blocked, isn't it?]] Very, very many farms have been blocked. [[Abg. Achatz: Mrs Colleagues! That's just not true! There is no single blocked operation in Germany! You don't even know each other! I don't know, just submission!]] I have already told you where the gaps in the review system are, but there is also a third point in this regard. These current admissibilitys concern not only the so-called pig scandal, but they are produced in the food sector acknowledgments on the ongoing band for the so-called food sinners. Even Minister Haupt himself has admitted that there are legal gaps that are fast to close. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! I'm just asking you: What does it mean to close fast? What does that mean that legal gaps can be quickly closed? Is it 130 days, that is, 260 days, that is, three years, that is, six years? It's not understandable to me. Ads without consequences. – We know that a lot is found in the food research institutes, but there are hardly any criminal convictions. We also know that the so-called residue control regulation, which would allow for the possibility of entering the house of residence during the reflections on the courts, has still not been changed. There is still a lack of the veterinary medicinal product law; it has been announced. There is still a lack of the proposal to finally change the situation with the free possession of illegal substances. – sinners are systematically covered. Also the refusal to announce the food sinners, the names of the products and the companies, fits in this picture. Food healers, right-wing breakers are systematically covered. And since these 130 days, nothing has changed at all, not to change a millimeter! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister. They started with the slogan: Actions instead of words. They have now made many promises. You have on show, I would like to say that beef is eaten in order to calm down consumers. Your only answer to this crisis is not to extend controls, no additional budget, no additional staff, not to develop special programmes and to continue to protect and cover lawbreakers systematically by leaving legal gaps completely open to the present day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: This is an enormous accusation!]] Until today, it would have been enough time to amend regulations adopted on the basis of food rights to amend the residue control regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Excuse the Minister! "Supporting rightbreakers" – where do we come from!]] These are not things that the National Council does. These gaps in the regulations, which have partly been recognised by him as such and which are to be quickly closed, have not been closed to this day. This allows this accusation, and this makes you very vulnerable in this respect. You have behaved very unbelievably on this question, you have no further time-limit with all this non-action, with looking away, with the lack of time, with the observation from our point of view, and therefore we have today also made this urgent request as quite urgent and important and legitimate. I would now ask you to consider in detail the very detailed, concrete and from our point of view specific questions. In the future, we expect that there will be consequences for the content; that not only is it concealed that beef is not only beautifully spoken and beef is "eated", but that these two massive problems – the lack of controls, the lack of control, the budget and staff savings – and the systematic coverage of food sinners in Austria are finally put to an end, so that consumers in Austria can also weigh themselves in safety again – not only on the basis of beautiful television images, but also on the basis of initiatives and reforms which you can call for and demand after 130 days of your term of office. The deadline for you, Minister, is over. In our opinion, they have not shown themselves in this area. You have continued your predecessor's policy, Mrs. Sickl. We Greens believe that the guarantee of healthy food is one of the key policy areas of a consumer protection and veterinary minister. I recommend that if you do not manage to do something different, just like women's policy, but do not represent this area before the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11597	The answer to the question is given by Mr Mag. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11619	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! In my reply to the urgent question raised by the Green Club, Mrs Glavischnig, I can stand up to a lot. You have meant in your Preamble that I have been since 24. In October, that is to say, for 130 days now, I am in office and therefore have full responsibility for this ministry. With that I've been since 24. You are right in October, but I feel obliged to tell you which ministry I have taken over. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The predecessor of the Social Democratic Party Prammer, who has included consumer protection in the relevant Federal Law on Consumer Protection on the basis of the Federal Ministerial Law Novelle, withdrew 9.8 million schilling in 1998 from the then section VI of the Federal Chancellery in order to promote other matters of the department. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh!]] In 1999 it removed 33.6 million schilling from consumer protection and thus provided for the reduction of personnel in order to be able to carry out public work, obviously for the election campaign. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh! Oh!]] It has taken away the food research institutes and transferred them to the women's sector. Mrs Glawischnig! A lot of things from the past are clearly shown here, which are not to be held responsible by me. The thinning of control agencies in this area is clear on my predecessor Mag. Prammer and no one else – in total, it accounts for 50 million schilling. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incredible something like that! A scandal!]] I would also like to inform you that I have selected 54 000 bacteriological research staff from the Federal Institute for Bacteriological Investigations in Graz, which, on the basis of an offer from a Institute of Hygiene at the University of Graz, has lost 54 000 bacteriological studies in the human field, and has transferred them to the food research centres. These persons were under-employed, since third-party transactions, which were previously carried out in this Federal Institute, are no longer possible in this area. I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, in response to your question 17 to which I have been asked, that: ==References====External links== The following is a summary of February 2001: Federal Institute for Food Research and Research in Vienna: 108 persons, Federal Food Research Institute in Linz: 27, Federal Food Research Institute in Salzburg: 11, Federal Food Research Institute in Graz: 34, Federal Food Research Institute in Innsbruck: 35, Federal Institute for Veterinary Investigations in Mödling: 136, Federal Institute for Veterinary Medical Investigations in Linz: 37, Federal Institute for Veterinary Medical Investigations in Graz: 27, and Bundesanstalt für Veterinärmedizinische Forschung in Innsbruck: 27. It is clear that the status of staff has increased compared to the time of the great coalition government that it has not been reduced. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to inform you that two research roads have been offered by my office: One is currently in the veterinary medical research facility of the state of Carinthia, in Klagenfurt, and the other, which should have been established in Salzburg, has been resettled by the State of Salzburg, indicating that the investigation capacity of the research institute in Innsbruck for BSE investigations of the Slaghof Salzburg-Thalheim can be properly acquired and not used. This is the latest state of play regarding the capacity in the BSE case, which was provided by an office – also with regard to the criticism that came initially due to the under-supply in Salzburg. Dear Mrs Glavischnig! I have inherited a food law and a pharmaceutical law which has significant gaps in important points. § 15 of the Food Investigation Act and the Medicines Act and the corresponding EU regulations are in a position of tension, so that in Austria, even from my point of view, criminal persons always fall back into administrative law and not into criminal law. I have, therefore, now something that the officials of my house have been calling for since long since EEC times, since Austria was in the EEA, to be implemented by my officials, namely, a veterinary medicinal products transport law. This bill will come to the Council of Ministers next week and hopefully become law here in the House after the assessment period and corresponding adoption. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This law, ladies and gentlemen, will include the fact that, as a result of the change in Austria, people who have illegal drugs and keep them in stock will normally remain impunity unless residues are found in animal stocks or in food in their area. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you that in November last year in Lower Austria, there was a case where a farmer in his farm owned 70 kilos of chloramphenicol, because of the current legal situation, which was only recently introduced in the Austrian Parliament, and also under your presence, but has not fallen into criminal law, but for the possession of this 70 kilos of chloramphenicol in pure substance 1 500 S – 1 500 S! – Punishment had to be paid and the 70 kilos of chloramphenicol had been refunded from the independent administration Senate. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the legal situation I took over when I took office. I say this clearly to you: You need urgent action here, in the Austrian Parliament, as a legislator with me who has to control the administration. I would like to be ready – and I will do so – to close in the food sector those gaps which until now leave criminals out of all professional groups free of punishment or in administrative criminal law, whether they are members of my own professional group, i.e. veterinarians, pharmacists, food dealers, meat dealers, farmers, feed dealers or others, because I consider these conditions, which are still present in Austria in this area, unbearable. I should also like to point out, however, that in connection with agricultural holdings, with all the others involved in this field, those who have become criminal, are the disappearing minority. You can also make an international comparison here and also understand the present figures of the Ministry of Justice on the current shortcomings and crimes in the field of food safety explained in the newspapers. More than 99 percent of Austrian farmers are working properly. More than 97 percent of the veterinarians in Austria work properly. More than 98 percent of Austrian pharmacists and pharmaceutical trade work properly. I do not see that, because of a few less people who do not comply with the laws, the entire profession, the whole economy, all those in this profession, the animals that stand in the stables, and the consumers finally come to the handcush, have to pay everything over the public hand, which few out of forward-looking business interests criminally implement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have also written something into the veterinary medicinal products transport law, ladies and gentlemen, which is possible in the Austrian legal order, but very rare. I have entered minimum sentences of 20 000 S and maximum sentences of 500 000 S and a three-year prison term. I am excited whether you will then agree with my proposals and confirm the drastic framework in the Austrian legal system in the form of them. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen, whether you implement what is contained in the draft law, then in the appropriate form here in the House. I think it must finally end in Austria the state that people who deliberately treat their animals with illegal drugs to make a business, and thus take the risk of harming people who are sustainablely harmful to consumers can still get away with an administrative penalty of a few schillings. Rather, in the event of a repetition or in the case of academically educated persons, penalties must be applied, the extent to which they are adequate in view of the damage they cause to persons, but also to animals. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to support you in this matter. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You'll get it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been accused that the measures taken by me in connection with foot-and-mouth disease and with other animal diseases would have been negligent and minor compared to the sampling studies carried out in the Federal Republic of Germany. Mrs Glawischnig! As an academic, I would ask you to make such comparisons, the 90 million inhabitants, the number of holdings and the level of livestock in Germany, and the 8 million people living in Austria, the number of holdings in Austria and the level of livestock in Austria, on the other hand, in relation to each other. If you make a fair mathematical comparison, you will see that we control on average more in Austria than the Federal Republic of Germany, which you have so praised in your introduction to this urgent request. This is a mathematical problem, that it may appear that 200 samples compared to 50 or 60 samples in total in Austria may appear to be in favour of Germany at first; however, if you honestly compare the figures taking into account the size of the company, the number of businesses, the population and the number of branches, then you will find that, statistically, we are doing more than the Federal Republic of Germany you have promised. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (To the Greens) There is nothing wrong with you.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Incompetent! Half-truths!]] I would also like to make it clear that Austria does not need to fear or shyen the comparison in the fight against animal disease with any country in the European Union, because those animal diseases that are trying to eradicate the other countries of Europe have already eradicated in Austria, thanks to rigorous animal disease programmes, so that we are today in a happy position not to have TBC cases, to fight scrapie radically and to limit it, no BSE case in Austria – thank God! – to have and also to be disease-free or almost disease-free with the other diseases – brucellosis, mucosal disease of the bovine species, MKS – thanks to the corresponding disease eradication programmes – a condition to envy and regret the many countries in Europe, in view of the fact that they are not in a position as good as we in Austria. I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union's recent reviews have not made me happy in some respects. I shall therefore also, in the veterinary field under my competence, cause a strict separation with regard to official veterinarians and the tasks to be carried out by them in order to ensure that checks are carried out properly. What works perfectly in Vorarlberg, that official veterinarians are exclusively control bodies and are not allowed to operate in practice, corresponds to the very condition that I have always wanted for all of Austria and still want. [[Abg. Auer: This is going to be a debacle for the Greens today!]] I should like to point out to those ladies and gentlemen who have been here in the House for a long time that I wanted to bring this state here in Austria to the last amendment to the meat investigation law, that my applications have been rejected, but that it was the federal state of Styria, which has made the most massive protest against the fact that this condition that official veterinarians are not allowed to conduct practice in the field of farm animals is being realized in all the federal states. I believe that this is necessary, but may already point out that in a federalist country like Austria, the realization of such ideas very often also requires the consent of the countries. Dear Mrs. Glavischnig! What you call chaos here is very often related to the fact that in the indirect federal administration my right of direction and the right of my ministry at the level of the national leaders ends. Therefore, if we create an agency for food safety, I also have before – and in this I agree with Minister Molterer – to enforce the right of access of the Ministry up to the district level, in accordance with the objective set out in the Government Agreement in the area of administrative reform, according to which the district level is the level of service and control that this Federal Government wants to strengthen. I should therefore like to ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, here in the House to provide the necessary two-thirds of the majority so that this right of access to control can be enforced up to the level of farms and districts. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Until now, I have tried to reach the agreement of the national health experts in this area, and these have assured me about ten days ago, on Thursday, that they are willing to do so when the relevant proposals are agreed with them. I should therefore also like to ask you, in your criticism of the issue of food agency, to put forward a little proposals which have come from one house or another. I don't do that! The public criticism will go into a proper review and will then, when it is completed and agreed within the Federal Government, take care of all of you. If you still see reason to criticise the fact that the control does not go up to the district level and the control is not strictly separate from production, then you will be able to pass this on to us in the review process, and we will see who is here in the House ready to stand up for the strict separation of the controls from production and the controls can be strictly carried out, as is already the case in far-reaching areas of my house. I should also like to point out that parts of my home's legislation are created under the Federal Ministry of Ministry of Justice's law and therefore the accreditation with this Ministry of Justice is urgently necessary for me to achieve a common process from the plant that is entering the finishing plant and then serves as a feed, through animals, through production facilities, through markets, through shops, direct marketing sites and, finally, to consumers – from the ground to the plate. For me, food safety begins with the most important basic conditions, not only for animal feed, but also for the purity of the water and the studies carried out in this context, because without the inclusion of the water as the most important food, the entire food control must remain in my view piecework and cannot be fully functional. I would also like to ask for the support of the House on this point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been told that I eat in public what I also eat privately from the Austrian market, as they are bought by Austrian consumers. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals as well as the abg. Dr. Khol]] I would also like to make the following clear: In a country where there has not yet been a single BSE case and which is considered to be the lowest incidence in Europe alongside Sweden and Finland, i.e. the lowest incidence of disease, I think it is irresponsible to make Austrian producers and the Austrian economy as a whole and to assure consumers in order to make headlines in a cheap way in the context of these matters, bearing in mind the actual situation in Austria. I would also like more seriousness from the media in this discussion. What do I mean by that? We had a questionable BSE case out there. At the same time, Italy had a questionable BSE case, which turned into a positive BSE case. International media have reported that Austria is an BSE country and Italy is BSE-free – for obvious market policy reasons. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is your sense of responsibility.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Consider TF1 in France as an example. We have protested about our Ministry of Foreign Affairs there, and after 18 hours this report has finally been corrected – just to point out to you which station it is there. Ladies and gentlemen, consider it economically: Austria is located here in the middle of the European Union market, on the border between the producing countries and those countries which have a footing on the beef sector, namely Italy and Greece. We have products that are excellent, we have almost 40 percent organic farmers, we have a market that we can send in front of our doorstep. I constantly wonder who might be interested in the fact that Austrian agriculture, with its high share of organic farmers, is now losing market shares just outside our doorstep, in Italy and in Greece, because in Austria there is a reporting that gives an impression that we already have this disease that exists with our neighbours. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is the Pirklhuber with his "saustall"!]] Those who have been expelled there from the sausage factories and from the market are those who make the reports: the Germans, the Belgians and the French. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to think of the Austrian economy and its stakeholders and to say to the Austrian consumer that it has a higher level of security. I have still blocked the products from Germany. This general barrier, which is in force on the basis of the BSE risk for sausages and meat products, naturally also affects the risk of foot-and-mouth disease. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website We did on 22 and 23. In February, all the national authorities and veterinary authorities, all customs authorities and all other bodies and bodies involved in imports in Austria, up to the meat trade, were informed of this. Ladies and gentlemen! We have researched whether imports of pigs and couples from the UK have come to Austria. This is because thank God, not the case. Other countries have received imports, and they now have to kill the animals and take them out of the market in order not to get the MK disease in their own country. We Austrians did not have to take these measures because we had no imports. But that does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we have done nothing but, on the contrary,: We have the barriers, the barriers are still upright, our customs authorities are informed accordingly, and at our airports information has also gone out for consumers to prevent the import of sausages or other products from endangering Austrian agriculture and bringing MKS into the country. The customs authorities are also required to carry out appropriate checks in the case of passenger transport from the United Kingdom and our neighbouring country. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria has done a lot in this area. We have still maintained the barriers to cattle seeds and embryos against France, although we are told by the European Union in this regard. With these disease control and blocking measures, we have proposed a bar, which is generally useful to keep the foot-and-mouth disease away from our country. I can now come to answer the questions, after this prescribing Preamble. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Free and the ÖVP]] Question 1: In the federal states of Burgenland, Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Styria, the following house searches were carried out at judicial order at the order of the courts by the criminal departments of the Landesendarmeriekommando of my knowledge: in Burgenland 36, in Lower Austria 42, in Upper Austria 3, in Styria 10. Since the Federal Ministry of the Interior is involved in the domestic search by the criminal police, not all figures have been disclosed due to data protection and floating procedures. The following steps have been taken: On the basis of ads, an operating ban was imposed, coupled with an operational control under the Food Act or the Residual Control Regulation. In Upper Austria, for example, 333 operational controls were carried out in accordance with the residue control regulation – that is to say, to relativize the figures here as well. In case of suspicion, house searches were conducted on court order. Medicines not authorised in Austria were partially found and partially authorised in Austria, but were unlawfully used by the veterinarian himself without the treating veterinarian. In these cases, a representative sample was taken in each holding in accordance with residue control regulation, i.e. on the basis of my decision. If the blood and urinary tests were positive, a blockage of the plants took place. If prohibited medicinal products, such as chloramphenicol, have been identified, the animals have been killed and disposed of without any damage. In other cases, the barrier shall be maintained until it is established with certainty that no residues are present at an inadmissible height. This is determined by sample slaughters in accordance with the meat investigation regulation. Despite this, criminal proceedings are carried out for breach of the Food Law, the Veterinary Act and the Medicines Act. On question 2: At the same time, the upper level of the holdings locked at the same time was 49 (Stiermark 37 farms, Upper Austria 14, Lower Austria 8, Salzburg 5, Burgenland 8); currently 36 farms are still blocked. Question 3: 1 691 samples were studied, 748 of them for antibiotics and sulphonamides by means of inhibitor test and 943 parallel to chloramphenicol which is not detectable with the inhibitor test. In 130 times inhibitors (antibiotics and sulphonamides) were demonstrated, 9 times chloramphenicol. Question 4: The animals from the affected holdings shall be blocked until it is established with certainty that no residues are present at an undue height. This is determined by sample slaughter in accordance with the meat investigation regulation. Distinguished reports from the national veterinary authorities are not available to my department, so I can't give you any current figures, because reporting with 31. ==References====External links==* Official website A "compulsory slaughter" prior to the expiry of the mast period is not provided for in the meat investigation law and could only be done through the order of the court. At present, information on the outcome of criminal proceedings is not provided to my department, and I am therefore not responsible if some report has been made to the public and perhaps some offender has been warned in good time – from his point of view. I have always regretted the fact that politicians have warned some criminal offender in the run-up to the investigations of the criminal authorities through their reports on the media. Question 5: Release from the lock is only carried out in those establishments where no prohibited substances have been found in house searches and where the blood and urine tests carried out in pigs have also yielded negative results. In all other cases, the lock is still upright. I can remind you: There are currently 36 farms, as in reply to question 2. Therefore, from my point of view, there can be no mention of early release. It is crucial to the safety of the consumer that the meat is free from residue at the time of slaughter, and in my view it is guaranteed by the measures taken. Specific methods of detection have been applied to chloramphenicol which is not detectable by inhibitor testing, which has been successful in 9 cases, as explained in the reply to question 3. On question 6: A novel to the Food Law was only recently adopted by Parliament. A new legislation on veterinary medicinal products is in place in the draft, which strictly regulates the possession and use of veterinary medicinal products. Among other things, the possession of illegal drugs is made punishable and not only, as before, the illegal use which is often difficult to prove. Question 7: Since the beginning of the year, 23 persons have been added to the Federal Institutes concerned for the implementation of the BSE tests. Six additional persons were assigned to the BBSUAs staff, i.e. the federal bacteriological-serological research institutes. I explained the case of the BBSUA in Graz to you in the Preambel. In addition, additional hardware control capacities have been acquired in the Federal Institutes, which enable all slaughter cattle with more than 30 months in the whole of Austria – and where slaughter cattle with up to 24 months on a voluntary basis – to be subjected to the BSE rapid test of the Prionics company. Austria, by the way, was one of the six EU countries which, with 1.1.2001, could ensure this complete control and could actually carry it out. Questions 8 and 9: The sample number was increased in the Styria in such a way that each 30. Pig is being examined. In Upper Austria, the number of samples has recently been doubled. In Lower Austria, an increased control is carried out by particularly responsible veterinarians, in which additional samples of urine and blood are drawn. The sample numbers and plans correspond to the slaughter figures of the past years and the animal population of the past few years in the respective state. This plan is approved annually by the EU Commission. In case of suspicion, samples are taken in addition to the basic plan. Number and type depending on the occasion and type of suspicion. In my view, the current sampling plans for these federal states must certainly be considered sufficient by these extensions. However, I am willing to review this view once again. Question 10: Poultry and poultry holdings shall be examined in accordance with the sampling plan as well as the mast farms of all other animal species. For 2001, 440 samples are intended for chickens for fattening and 195 samples for turkeys or turkeys. There were no routine studies in poultry in 1996 and 1997. In 1998, two cases of maximum value exceeded; in 1999 there were no objections. [[Abg. Olympians: These are "stichterls"!]] The reports of the countries on the results of the year 2000 are not yet available and must be completed by 31. ==References====External links==* Official website On the question 11: Poultry production and chicken farms are subject to the poultry hygiene Regulation. Hiebei is a 14-day test for parents. Similarly, before slaughter, all mast animals are sampled for salmonella. These investigations are part of an EU-approved salmonella control programme in poultry and are also financially supported. Question 12: In order to prevent the introduction of foot-and-mouth disease, I have put in place the following measures: Following the arrival of the first information by fax from the European Commission, all the national heads of state and the Federal Veterinary Institutes, the Ehrental State Institute and the Maul and Klauenscheuche Lab in Vienna-Hetzendorf were immediately telefaxed on 22 February. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website Since 1 February 2001 piglets and pigs originating in or originating in the United Kingdom have been placed in stocks of their scope of activity. In addition, on the basis of the MPS outbreak in the United Kingdom, the European Commission sent to all the country leaders, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Federal Ministry of Finance and Customs and the Federal Board of Agricultural Trade on Friday, 23. ==References== The customs duty was also requested to carry out immediate checks on passengers from the United Kingdom with a view to the suspension and the prohibited products. In addition, the heads of state were asked to investigate whether or not since the 1st century. In February 2001, consignments of farmed or farmed pigs originating in the United Kingdom or originating in the United Kingdom were reduced in stocks of their scope of activity to extend to all domestic and wild-farm hooves. In Austria, no domestic or wild pairs were researched from the United Kingdom. I have the culprit concerning veterinary restrictions on movement on the grounds of foot-and-mouth disease in the United Kingdom of 23 June 1988. It was published in the Official Veterinary News, No. 1/2001. Furthermore, the text of the call was sent to all the national leaders, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Environment and Water Industry and the Economic Chamber of Austria, the Presidential Conference, the Federal Chamber of Veterinary Doctors of Austria, the Directorate-General of the Austrian Federal Railways and the European Commission. In an additional information to the Federal Ministry of Finance, customs department, I once again pointed out that the rallying of the 23rd edition of the "Bundesministerium für Finanzen" (Bundesministerium für Finanzen, Customs Department) was not possible. It must be applied to private transport from the United Kingdom in February 2001. Accordingly, all goods and products which are excluded from the movement ban in accordance with Articles II to VIII shall be accompanied by a veterinary certificate referred to in that Article. Otherwise, the disease-proof disposal of these goods and products should be initiated. The costs of this disposal will be borne by § 61 para. 1 lit. (a) the animal disease law of the Federal Republic of Germany. Information to travellers: I was prompted to distribute information sheets to travellers at airports. In addition, posters were attached for information and for warning in marked places. the following products are affected by the barrier: live bovine animals, sheep, goats and pigs and other ewes originating in or originating in the United Kingdom; seeds, ova and embryos; fresh meat and meat products of bovine, ovine, caprine, porcine and other equine species; milk and milk products; Skins and skins of the said animals; other products of animal origin of those animals. One of the blocked goods also includes the travel provider, which contains the products mentioned above, so also a sandwich. In the case of products which can transmit foot-and-mouth disease and may have come from the United Kingdom to Austria, the following is to be noted at present: The intra-Community trade in live animals and meat and meat products shall be monitored by official veterinarians and meat examination veterinarians. These control the incoming products in a sample. Importers are obliged to report incoming consignments to the official veterinarian. According to the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, consignments from the United Kingdom are carried out in accordance with the 1. They were sent to Austria in February 2001 to stop and report to the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Depending on the risk of disease, the shipments are decided. Disease plans are available in a revised form in the Federal Ministry. With a view to the export of live pigs and sheep from the United Kingdom from 1st century onwards. February is to be noted: The UK authorities have identified the countries in which pigs or sheep have been transported from that date and have contacted these countries in order to enable them to take appropriate measures to prevent the removal of the disease. Since then, Austria has not provided any such animals from the United Kingdom. Further research is currently under way, and the national leaders have also been called upon, in accordance with the decree, to carry out meat and meat products, which after 1. ==References====External links==* Official website If such products are identified in Austria, they are disposed of by the animal body recycling agencies. The same is done when it comes to meat and meat products. On the question 13: In the years 1998 to 2000, at least one priority action was carried out each year with regard to the labelling of genetically modified food ingredients. The studies on genetically modified food ingredients began in 1997. This year 104 samples were examined. 282 samples were examined in 1998, 44 of which were objected to by infringement of the labelling rules for genetically modified food ingredients. In 1999 235 samples were examined, twelve were to be objected. For the year 2000, 478 samples were examined with Stand January 2001. Of these eleven were to be questioned. The final results are not yet available for a second priority action started in November 2000. I must therefore ask you, Mrs Glawischnig, not to say that this Federal Government is carrying out fewer controls than the previous ones. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of Green) Blitzed!]] There are no data available in the ministry on the question of how many fines were imposed and how high the penalty was. Questions 14 and 15: Following the announcement of the problem of "antibiotic residues in breeding shrimps", an instruction to all national leaders was immediately launched to try out the shrimps on the Austrian market. The state food research institutes were instructed to analyse the samples immediately for chloramphenicol. Up to now 170 samples have been received at the research institutes and are currently being processed there. Aquaculture products, including breeding traps, are subject to harmonised import rules on imports from third countries into the EC. The basis for the import is the origin from a third country establishment approved by the EC, which is also authorised by the European Community for the import of such products. In addition to hygiene, administration and hygiene requirements, the submission and approval of residue sampling plans for all types of food of animal origin, including aquaculture products, are also required. These residue plans were examined by experts from the Commission and approved by all Member States under the Standing Veterinary Committee of the Commission. In the case of positive laboratory findings on residues, action shall be taken in accordance with Council Directive 96/23/EC in accordance with the provisions of Directive 97/78/EC. Accordingly, in the present case, the Austrian veterinary border control posts were immediately ordered to stop such imports and to allow negative sampling findings to be imported only in the event of presence. These measures can only be eased from the same holding after 10 consecutive negative test findings. In addition, the Commission and the Member States were agreed on the findings in Austria and the measures taken. Import barriers to harmonised goods would have to be adopted by the Commission in consultation with all Member States. Unilateral measures have virtually little comprehensive impact on the common market, as there would only be a circumvention. Unilateral measures shall also be valid for a maximum of ten days until the Commission takes action. It should be noted that such products, e.g. in the case of shrimps from Ecuador, are only imported into the EC via Austrian veterinary border controls. On the question 16: The fish farms in Austria are subject to the EU approved residue control programme with the Fish Investigation Regulation as well as all other animals kept for food production. In This programme will examine the fish for medicinal products and prohibited measles. A drug abuse or illegal use of antibiotics can never be excluded by a hundred percent, but the ordered residue control allows for a comprehensive control both in the holdings and during the slaughter of animals. On the question 17: Question No 17 has already been answered to you – I can repeat the answer. The number of persons on the date of the date of issue 28. Feber 2001 at the institutions is as follows: Federal Institute for Food Research and Research in Vienna: 108, Federal Food Research Institute in Linz: 27, Federal Food Research Institute in Salzburg: 11, Federal Food Research Institute in Graz: 34, Federal Food Research Institute in Innsbruck: 35, Federal Institute for Veterinary Investigations in Mödling: 136, Federal Institute for Veterinary Medical Investigations in Linz: 37, Federal Institute for Veterinary Medical Investigations in Graz: 27, and Bundesanstalt für Veterinärmedizinische Forschung in Innsbruck: 27. On the question 18: How high the number of establishments audited by the food supervisory bodies in Austria during the period 1 January 2000 to 28. As February 2001, I cannot answer you because the relevant statistical data for the year 2000 is not yet available. For the implementation of the 2000 revision and sampling plan, the national heads of state have been appointed in accordance with § 36 para. 2 Food Law 1975 to 31. ==References====External links== However, I would like to give you the following information, which, as I expressly emphasize, refers to the year 1999: 155 054 operational revisions were carried out in 1999. The number of holdings controlled is 81 028. How many samples have been taken in how many farms have not been answered on the basis of the data submitted by the federal states. However, a total of 43 781 official samples were collected and examined and reviewed at the federal and state research institutes. In 1999, the Federal Food Investigation Institutes examined 28 621 official samples and 9 172 private samples. Documents on penalties and other sanctions are not available in the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] On question 19: This question is clearly based on the draft of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has been announced to the public. This draft is not acceptable to me in this form. We have therefore started discussions on a completely new basis – completely apart from the interests of health and the interests of producers. In the food sector and in the veterinary field, the Ministry of Agriculture will have no means of intervention and influence, but information possibilities. The networking of science from both sides, production and control, will take place. The most important thing in the planned agency is the implementation of the principle of control from the stable and from the field and water to the plate. Question 20: How high the cost-saving effects will be is still not estimated. However, these synergies are not intended to be used to save personnel but to improve the control regime. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that last week I called on the university professor Dr. Weber, who is working in the Commission, to re-establish the European Union as a disease control measure. Results from the European Union are not yet available. Whether we will succeed in using this classic disease policy instrument for combating BSE in Europe and for other crises is still open and in decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, according to the questions I have answered, from my point of view, I can say with fug and right that I have acted according to the best of my knowledge and conscience according to the existing regulations and the found legal instruments. I'm allowed to submit something more to me from the Federal Ministry of Justice to the pig scandal with the deadline 15. ==References== Principal Court of First Instance in Vienna: Public Prosecutor Eisenstadt: nine defendants, a house search, prosecutor St. Pölten: 20 defendants, 22 house searches, prosecutor's office Korneuburg: five accused, six house searches, prosecutor's office Krems: seven proceedings against accused, seven house searches; Chief Advocate General Graz: Procuratorate Leoben: four proceedings, voluntary examination allowed, no house search orders, prosecutor Graz: 19 Criminal proceedings against 79 suspects pending, issued 15 house search orders; Principal Procuratorship Linz: Procuratorate Linz: Three cases pending against a total of five defendants. Another advertisement against a suspect has already been announced by the Special Commission of the State Army Command. Procuratorate Wels: 12 proceedings against 12 persons pending at the investigating judge in Wels. In two cases, the public prosecutor requested the issuing of a house search warrant. Steyr Public Prosecutor's Office: four criminal proceedings against five suspects, Ried Public Prosecutor's Office in the Inn Circle: 28 Criminal proceedings against 30 persons pending, Salzburg Public Prosecutor's Office: a trial against two establishments pending. However, this list is not to be considered complete because new ads are coming in on a daily basis. ==References====External links== He was signed by Dr. Solé from the Ministry of Justice in February 2001. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope I answered the urgent question in detail enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11982	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. We are now going into the debate. The Rules of Procedure shall be known as follows: Each club has a speaking time of 25 minutes, no speaker longer than 10 minutes. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12020	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Your Preamble, Minister, lasted, I think, for 21 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: So what?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was a lesson!]] In your Preamble, you referred to the heritage, you said, "I am ahead," and told you that you will deal with water problems, that you have considered the BSE disease very critical, that Italy and other countries have acted much worse and that you have really earned a Roman one, especially in the disease control program. [[Abg. Auer: That was the chance you once understood something! You must be grateful!]] You told us that, but the direction and criticism of our urgent request went in a different direction. It went in the direction of control and improvement of food research institutes and veterinary research institutes in this Republic. [[Abg. Böhacker: But you didn't write that in!]] [[Abg. Achatz: You didn't ask that!]] You have remained guilty of some evidence and you have given us information on the other side, which is also intended to ensure that our accusations are very correct. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can only repeat a number, Minister. They said that the Federal Institute for Food Research and Research, which has BALUF, has 106 employees. You told me. I have the annual report of this institution. After that it was 125 in 1998, in 1999 it was, I think, 124. The figures are likely to contradict this. I'm going to go after that anyway. If that's true, what you said, then staff in Vienna has been reduced. That was always our fear, and you hear that from your employees. It was reduced staff because it was not re-occupied because the retirements were not replaced by new settings. It lost valuable know-how. Minister! That's where you've got to go. You have now certainly worked out many sins of your predecessor, which I have always very critically argued against. [[Abg. Böhacker: It's on board now!]] That is why we have placed this issue here today, so that you can get a start on this after-supply process that we urgently need. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! In your Preamble, you didn't mention something I expected. [[Abg. Böhacker: Was she too short?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not that he didn't mention something! I don't believe you! He explained everything!]] You mentioned it only on the basis of a question from us, namely your project of this food safety agency. You didn't talk about it in your Preamble, although I asked myself: What will he answer me, Mr. Head of Minister? It'll all be different, it'll be better. The control deficits, especially at the middle level of the administration, which I can confirm to you – and which you very correctly criticize, could be eliminated with an authority – that is, extra – which has access to throughput and which reduces and skips this middle level of administration at the head of state. You said very little to the agency. You have said that the draft of the Minister for Agriculture is inadequate, you are considering a new basis. And what have we – and this is why these urgent ones take place today – got on Monday? – The Budgetary Act. And in this budget accompanying law, there is an Article 13, and this Article 13 is really a curiosum in the history of the budget accompanying laws, because it includes a decision that there should be a law, namely, a law on the establishment of an agency for food security at the latest from 1. January 2002. In itself, we should not perhaps have this empty "chat" in the committee on 13 November. In March and then in the plenary session which follows, we should decide, but we should already have – and therefore today the urgent ones – a draft law that eliminates all the abuses you have listed, which give us the instruments, through which overall food control is on a new basis, which prevents dilution, tightens the instruments, and overall improves the implementation resources. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Because I used the word "resources": In this budget accompanying law, Chapter 13 refers to the financing elements which have once been said to be budgeting to the extent that what has been budgeted so far. But if you ask yourself more precisely, then this budgeting is going to be minus the budgeted revenue. That's another special story. We can still talk about it, but that means that there will be a cut-off, because budgeted revenue has always been relatively high in these institutions in the past. This hollow box of this food safety agency is the critical point for me. I don't want to buy the cat in the bag, but for this hollow "chat" I want concrete, now and today packed content. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Above all, I would like to clarify one point, Mr Minister, that you have the "chat" in your hand and that the Minister of Agriculture does not act as a representative of producers, as a representative of an economy in this "chat" of yours, obtain information and possibly also have access to control. That's to make the bock a gardener. You don't want that, we don't want it! Therefore: Put the cards on the table! What's the "chat" supposed to look like? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Elder: Empty!]] Minister! They also told about samples or even in the answer to one of our questions – I think it was the question 10 about poultry and chicken manure farms – that samples of 440 in the chickens and 135 in the poultices took place. Please, take a look at such a mast operation: There are thousands of chickens. I think in Austria we have millions of slaughters at chickens and turkeys. And this number logically increases, because for inventive reasons – for me personally uninventable – people do not surrender to the best-controlled meat, namely beef, but to the worst-controlled, to the chicken and turkey meat. That was a very revealing information for me. The samples are very minimal in the delicate areas. And that's where you have to sit. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Maier.]] For this there are also very good reform concepts, also from Styria. Please, bear in mind: The fact is that material that is taken from the samples continues to run on the tape, to the packaging, to the display case, to the consumer. The meat from which samples were taken continues its way unimpeded. Here you also have to intervene and say: If a sample is taken, then it must be withheld once. That's what you do with the samples on BSE. Samples of 100 percent are carried out here. This is also held back until the test results of the sample are on the table. In the case of routine samples, this is not at all the case. I wonder what sense they then have, except that you can present statistical figures. This is a consumer protection policy that does not deserve the name, which is a policy that rather impoverishes and conceals, that is a pseudomeasure, an alibi action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Samples have the sense that, when something is discovered, one can really protect the health of consumers and protect them from eating something that is wrong or where residues of antibiotics, inhibitors et cetera are contained. But now, as it were, this is going to be unhindered in the shelves, and you'd have to put it on. This is also our demand here and today that a reform be made. A second point of reform has been mentioned under the title "Gläser Farm". This is first of all about the networking of computer data. The meat viewer in the slaughterhouse finds certain manifestations. There is no guarantee that there will be a feedback on the operation – this would require a database – and it is not guaranteed that there will be a feedback to consumers as a whole. There is a need for a new concept in the sense of animal health services, and here you have to act. You didn't say that today. That's what I'm asking: Animal health services are really in line with the reform model, as some of it is addressed in the Styria. There it happens on a voluntary basis. This voluntaryity should also be rewarded, with better quality seals. You have not mentioned that either, Minister. I know you're not primarily responsible. And this is also your problem: the fragmentation of the food sector and also of the consumer protection area. The Minister Bartenstein is responsible for the product label, and there is – you will not believe it – a quality seal regulation from 1942, signed by the then Reich Minister of Economic Affairs and the Reich Minister for Food. It's still true! 1942! Under these conditions, we cannot guarantee proper consumer information about quality stamps and markings in Austria, because we still have a lot of open legislation here. As consumers, we also suffer from the fact that there is this jungle and this variety of labels. Especially with regard to quality food You are therefore really working with Minister Molterer, with Minister Bartenstein and also with your colleague, Minister Böhmdorfer, so that, at last, the labelling is absolutely complete, clear and clear and state-guaranteed. We always demand a organic seal, a roof seal. Your desire, too, must be that. They also have to stand behind it – especially in the sense of a good food policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12208	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12223	I'd like to finish by now. – Minister! You've got a lot to do. Please, really forge nails with heads! It is urgently necessary. Solve what you have promised, and make one especially: Make yourself an action plan with clear data, clear time targets! Put it on! I think then it would not be necessary for us to make a urgent, then we could finally regain the confidence of consumers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12261	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12309	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, I have heard your words. I can tell you that you have our support in many areas: on the question of the official veterinarians to whom you have referred the problem of service providers at national level, on the question of a veterinary medicine transport law, which should also be subject to criminal penalties. We will support you, however – and I would like to say this with all the clarity: I wish you luck! Unfortunately, none of the ÖVP farmers are here in the hall. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Zweytick lifts his hand so he can be seen.]] The Schwarzenbergers and Schwarzböcks have prevented it in the last period. I recall the debate in July last year, in which requests in this area have been rejected. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are not telling the truth!]] This is where political responsibility lies, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Tell the truth!]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== Schwarzenberger) You were there during the negotiations!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about food scandals. Let me hold on to one thing with all the clarity: There are no food scandals. We have feed scandals, and we have a control deficit in agriculture. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If I look at the current draft of this so-called food agency, I have to say: Dear FPÖ, you once again let the ÖVP pull you over the table. It is necessary to specify this language creation in more detail. In "nutrition", "food safety" it is about the fact that enough food is available. In reality, however, it was about food safety. Or if I look at the term "agency." What's the agency? Is that a branch office, a branch office, an agency? Will there be opinions? Agency's from agent. Agent's name is Spion. Who's the spy? Is this perhaps the Minister of Agriculture, who sits in this agency and wants to order more supervisory boards than the Minister of Health, according to his views? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This means that we have to deal with each other and clearly explain the political responsibility of the ÖVP farmers' representatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weak applause!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was a sparse applause! Your party colleagues don't go there anymore!]] Mr. Federal Minister. I would divide your reply into three areas. It was correct from the presentation in many areas. However, it was also a nice weather answer because you did not address certain questions. And other answers, Mr. Federal Minister – I say this very clearly and clearly here – were simply wrong. They accused Federal Minister Prammer of giving up money – I am again with the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen – but it was about that certain investments could not be made, namely the new building of the Bundesanstalt in Vienna. What happens, Mr Schwarzenberger, if the Minister of Economic Affairs – and the Minister of Economic Affairs – says no? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But the Finance Minister was the Edlinger!]] The money, the deposit must be dissolved. And that's what you're responsible for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (the right hand behind the left ear) Colleague Maier, that's it now!]] Federal Minister! I think you know as well as we do that the main problems in the agricultural sector lie. There are control deficits, there has been covert, and there the controls have been reduced. Let us talk about the feed controls! Let us talk about the planned controls for the year 2000: from 1 827 on the instructions of Federal Minister Molterer to 1,600, but only in the field of business. The farms have not been controlled, there has not been a single sample taken. Each one of you knows that the farmers in Western Austria – in Tyrol it was 70 percent – had their feed from Italy and Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: How do you know?]] We now also know the composition. We know that there has been pollution of up to 30 percent. But no one, ladies and gentlemen, has controlled! Imagine: Infectious feed is sold, or milk exchangers with infectious animal fat are sold, and then the BSE case comes. [[Abg. Achatz: You have to show that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the real deficits lie! We therefore think: We need to clean up competence in Austria, and we need a reorganisation of the indirect federal administration. Mr Federal Minister, you have our support here, I say quite clearly! I would just like you to be happy to stand up against the EIA on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Maier, Mag. Sima, Huber, Lackner, Gradwelt and Comrades, concerning the closure of control gaps in the food sector – amendment of the Federal Ministry Act 2000. Federal Minister! You made it clear last Sunday that there is an agreement in the Federal Government that you will take all the controls. We'll take you to the floor now. We believe that there must be a shift of competence in accordance with the Federal Ministry Act. We believe that not the Minister of Agriculture, but the Minister of Health has to take over the controls on these agricultural resources, say feed. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party and the Austrian People's Party! We'll take you to the floor. We are constructive, and we support Mr Bundesminister's position on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Talk time!]] We can invite you to accept this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12545	The application is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12570	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) From my point of view, the urgent request of the Greens has once again clearly shown that the Greens are fully specialised in panic, in nothing but fear and insecurity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You want to put jobs at risk!]] I find it very dramatic that this whole uncertainty campaign is also based on false facts and facts and that you seem to have gotten away from the constructive cooperation that constructive work has done. Although you are trying to overplay your professional incompetence by pretending to be in favour of the consumer, I do not think you will succeed, but this is certainly also part of the Vienna election campaign which is now under way. That is why, in my view, this is just an alibi treatment of the Greens. It is crucial that: What does the consumer want? What does the consumer lack? – The consumer wants 100% transparency. The consumer wants comprehensive information and comprehensive information. What has been successful in the past and what has been successful since the 1970s was the so-called four-eye principle or is still the four-eye principle. What does that mean? – That means nothing but the following: The competences in the field of farm resources are in the agricultural sector, veterinary law and food law are in the health sector. So it was in the past, so it is today, and so it should remain in the future. [[Abg. Huber: No!]] What is crucial to us is that we want more transparency and that we want to ensure this increase in transparency. That is why I am glad that we are here on a right path and that we have already worked towards the food agency. This will make a major contribution to increasing this transparency. The aim of this Food Agency is to achieve complete process control, complete process control, starting from farm resources to veterinary legislation, to food controls. For me the perceptibility from the stable or field to the shop table is very crucial. That must be our ultimate goal! Today, you have said on the part of the opposition that you are concerned that the four-eye principle is lost. I'm allowed to scatter those fears. In the field of the Food Agency, nothing will change in the division of legislation between ministries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] As far as the right of guidance and the responsibility of ministers is concerned, nothing will change in this area, but it will remain as before. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before the Greens continue to pass through the country and criminalise our peasantry and advance the policy of uncertainty, we should look at some facts. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Please!]] We all know – and Prime Minister has already documented a lot of measures, figures, facts and figures – that in recent years a lot has been invested in the field of security. I am glad that there has been a forward-looking agricultural policy in recent years. For nothing, the BSE risk in Austria – in addition to Finland and Sweden – would not be the lowest in the entire EU area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Here again, I should like to refer briefly to the panic of the Greens. I think each of us has the feeling that the greens would be happy every day or every hour about the first BSE case in Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not...!]] Thank God no BSE case has occurred with us to this day due to the forward-looking policy. In this context, I would like to thank our government for the speedy action and the rapid measures that have been taken. My colleague, Mr Prinz, will go into it in detail. Allow me just to point out that it has also been acted quickly and quickly in execution. I am thinking here of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has, among other things, increased the staffing level for the feed examinations. I should also like to reject the accusations made by Mrs Glavischnig. It has particularly attacked Lower Austria very strongly. I would like to turn these accusations into the right light and go in shortly thereafter. You may have missed the fact that in Lower Austria, we have had 30 to 40 people in addition to the control of animal meal feeding ban. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who is "we"?]] They are happy to obtain further information on what initiatives and measures have been taken in Lower Austria. I can already tell you that within a few days 10 percent of the Lower Austrian companies have already been fully controlled. For the illegal administration of antibiotics: There has also been rapid action. I am also allowed to go into the right light here, that we have additionally controlled 400 large farms on the part of Lower Austria and that in Lower Austria about 40 establishments have been monitored or checked by the criminal police. It is particularly important that we always have in mind that in Austria we have the lowest number of farms that hold more than 1,000 pieces of pigs. I think that this structure shows or concludes that veterinary medicinal products are not imported illegally by small holdings, but that veterinary medicinal products are derived from or administered by the veterinarian. I already admit in this case that every incident, every positive sample, is a case too much, but I do not think that is the reason or the right to criminalise the whole farming and the whole agriculture. Finally, we do not do so in the field of economic crime. Although a case of economic crime occurs, it does not mean that all entrepreneurs are criminals. We do not allow this to happen in agriculture either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think I have to refer to the farms in Austria again. 36 farms in Austria have been blocked. Eight of these are located in Lower Austria, and the total number of holdings in Lower Austria is 18 000. This shows that you should not forget the relationship in any way here, but this relationship should always lead you in mind. [[Abg. Auer: That's the way it is!]] From the first minute, it was important for us to lay the craftsmanship for the black sheep. We have stood for this from the first minute, and we will continue to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] What I do not think is right is the panic that is being operated on the part of the opposition. There, too, one tries to beat political capital out of it. Especially in this sensitive area, this is a big "swine." [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think you also forget that with this panic, with this uncertainty strategy, you are endangering jobs in the field of agriculture. However, they also endanger jobs in the field of trade and production. I believe it is important, in the sense of the consumer, to provide him with comprehensive information, sufficient information and, above all, right information. We want to continue to do so, because we are interested in the consumer gaining confidence in Austrian quality products in turn. I believe that this policy pays off for our consumers. I invite you to contribute to our policy – in the interests of our consumers!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12715	Mr Gahr spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in particular the speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12739	Mr Maier claimed that 70 percent of feed was from Germany and Italy in Tyrol. I'm allowed to do the right thing: Feed has been imported from Italy and Germany, but only up to 20 percent. This must be justified by open borders. I can also say that everything has been legal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12775	Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of another actual correction. I'm making the same reference as before. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12800	Mr President. My previous speaker said that the Greens are panicking first, that the Greens are criminalizing the peasantry, and that thirdly, the Greens are looking forward to the first BSE case. [[Abg. May. Mikl-Leiter: Joys would be!]] I'm actually correcting: Neither colleague Glavischnig nor I have panicked today. None of us have talked about the peasantry as such negative. [[Abg. Auer: No, you don't do that at all!]] Thirdly, we are glad that there is no BSE case.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12848	The next speaker is Mrs Achatz. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12870	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Glawischnig! To your speech on today's urgent inquiry, I can only say: You've really been badly researched, you've been incompetent, and you've been bad at that. It just didn't fit anything, it didn't fit in the back and front. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Colleague, you have made serious accusations, for example, against the authorities in Upper Austria. I can guide you – I have now received this information – that both the Gendarmerie and the Veterinary Authority praise the cooperation in the fields of hormone scandal and pig scandal. Therefore, they cannot assume that there would have been no cooperation there. You have also said, Mrs Colleague, that much better, better and more serious is being done in Germany. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Germany we are being examined just as much as we do – that is less – but there is no single operation being blocked. In Austria, the holdings are blocked until the second investigation results are available, not in Germany. Please note! – Only so much to "chaos instead of central management". On the question of feedback: Mrs Moser, I would like to give you the right to say that we need a system of feedback. This has been demanded by the Upper Austrian Veterinary Authority several times, but this falls within the competence of the head of state. Unfortunately, God’s head of state in Upper Austria has always rejected the financing of this feedback system. But I hope he changes his mind in the light of these things. On the Consumer and Quality Seal issue: Mrs Moser, there I am a hundred percent with you. I have been fighting in this direction for a long time, and I believe that with the new Federal Government, we will finally turn the matter towards the positive in this direction. As far as the Food Agency is concerned, I am of your opinion. This is not about executive posts, but about setting up an authority with which consumers are really safe and transparent, in all areas. But one thing I have to say – and that is what my predecessor is really right about: The Greens have once again weathered a scandal, and now they are yelling "scandal". Although we do not have a BSE scandal in Austria, the Greens are yelling "scandal". – The result is 30 per cent minus in beef consumption, although in Austria we do not have a BSE scandal, thank God. The Greens and the "Four Pfoten" scream "Sweine scandal", "Horm scandal", "Medicine scandal", hundreds of pig girls would poison their pigs, so to speak. – The result is a further uncertainty of consumers. They challenge headlines every time – but the headlines about BSE, pig scandal or swine fever are already in another country and not in Austria. Thanks to a well-functioning authority, these cases do not exist with us, but they exist in Great Britain, France, Germany and Holland. However, there is a great danger that, because of the free borders, we will be importing these problems – thanks to the "blessments" of the European agricultural policy! It is quite strange of a party whose agricultural spokesman Pirklhuber calls all of Austria "swinning stable" – and this, Mr Pirklhuber, is still without apologies. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: You know exactly what was meant, Mrs Colleague!]] That's really a scandal, I can tell you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I hope, Mr Pirklhuber, that you have the courage and the courage to apologize here and today. I'm waiting! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He should do that!]] You are just not serious to take if You're not apologizing today. You are simply not serious to take in your zeal to criminalize everything and everyone. I must say that I am really happy today that the Minister for Health and Veterinary Affairs is a Mr Mag. It's the main thing. Do not think that this question should have been answered by a colleague named Prammer; do not think it would have been! I'm not talking about Pirklhuber, he'd be insulting everyone again! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Chaos perfect!]] I really have to congratulate the colleague and minister chief. He has worked professionally in the case of BSE and also in the pig problem from the beginning, and this in the context of legal possibilities. The problem of legal possibilities has been raised by Mr Mag. It's the main one. We've "inherited" them, and it's about time we made a skill adjustment, that's not a question at all. - That's the point one. The second point, which is also a problem of combating causes, is the change in agricultural policy. That's an hour's commandment. If EU agricultural policy does not change rapidly if we do not quickly come to a land-based livestock stock if we do not finally pursue an agricultural policy in line with nature, with animals and with man, that is what is happening in Europe now, the beginning of the end. We liberals invite you all to help bring about a renationalisation – otherwise it will probably not be possible. What is happening now is the wrong way! However, there is no one willing – even the German Green Künast – to make a real change to the agricultural policy, because that only effective would probably be renationalisation, and then we could make our agricultural policy ourselves again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12963	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12993	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Minister Chief, I am glad that you once did not have Austrian poets and writers to explain your policy. But you've been straining something we've heard from the government over and over again: Most of it's okay! We are incredibly proficient and scarce about being the best at all! Requests are there to ask how good someone really is – and that should be the case. To criticize that the Greens have dared to demand that a request be dealt with urgently is already a refusal of reality when you have to admit whether a BSE case is now... – I did not mean the Minister, there are others who are at the FPÖ or at the ÖVP. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what it was!]] The parties are not just ministers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This request is therefore necessary and urgent because, even if there is no case in Austria, BSE is a potential danger that cannot be ignored. Antibiotic resistance is also a potential danger and so on. Food safety will not represent you as a precisely irrelevant problem either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It is also a potential danger for politicians when they call the Austrians "swine"!]] Requests for urgent action consist of inquiries, not interruptions. Our request also does not consist of interruptions, and it takes place in a field where you can reasonably also argue and discuss different opinions, not on the terrain of a military and close-up military school, where you think you should definitely put something on your knees to the other. I am therefore opposed to saying: We are the best, because ten, 15 years ago we started to believe it in England. You know, there are two very large-scale investigations: An investigation, the Southwood report, said: There is no danger to man. But if our assumptions prove to be wrong, then the matter will become critical. That's what the report says. To admit that we too – I do not exclude myself – the Minister, perhaps based on false assumptions, would be, I believe, a sign or a signal of a reasonable policy. This request serves to simply open the eyes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second report, the Philips report, has found – and this is already happening in today's policy – that science and science's mandate to solve these problems have also shown quite extreme gaps and shortcomings here. And this has to do with the fact that the independence of such research institutes, the independence of such researchers is quite essential. I consider it to be at least superior whether it is really wise to investigate people whose survival in the market must be guaranteed by the clients they need to control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whether it's "agency" or not, I don't care about it, but I don't care about these central high-tech positions – these places are also in the United States, in the country that you always like to quote, still stately – so easily, just because of a trend, a fashion and ideology, giving up on the market, you should think about it again. Panic mache is the one thing, motion and – the eyes close – would be mean to blink with the eyes the other. In between, there is a broad field where debates can take place, and these are necessary. I would like to remind you once again: At BSE, you don't know as much as many people believe and pretend to know. It is! But you know that species borders have been crossed, you know it's transferable to humans. And because of a similar disease in New Guinea, one also knows that there is most likely a group of people who are predisposed to it genetically and who become sick much sooner and faster than in animals, but another group could only get it after 40 or 50 years. And there we have a long time to look, a long time to worry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I am now coming, as the speaking time is so slowing down, to the antibiotics in animal husbandry and the associated dangers of antibiotic resistance. In Germany, there are studies – I hope that there will be 40 000 deaths per year in Germany due to infections involving conventional antibiotics – that there were no simple authorities or simply structured scientists who came to these figures. This is, I would like to be fair, not only to agriculture, but also to us physicians and hospitals – that is undisputed. Nevertheless – once I have told you –: 50 percent of all antibiotics are already used in agriculture, only 50 percent in humans. 70 to 80 percent of these antibiotics are of completely questionable value, only 20 percent are used therapeuticly. You have to know. This means that it is quite allowed to ask if there are no alternatives here, especially with the higher performance. I have already explained to you that in the case of animals, these antibiotics produce resistance that is transmitted to humans via bacteria, and it is not only that what is inside the meat or sausage causes the malheur, but it is the germs that are propagated by these behaviors in animal farming. So that all this isn't so ridiculous: There is an essential and vital antibiotic in medicine for hopeless severe infectious diseases in certain pathogens – it is called Vancomycin. A similar preparation was used in animal husbandry in a quantity of 2 000 kilograms in 1994 or 1995. In humans, only 60 kilograms were used. So don't say that's not important. But I give you the right to say that farmers – not all – have been left in the rain, because advice and information have been missed. They were offered few alternatives, they were not warned. If you say that you are harming the industry, I may ask you the question: Can you imagine that this also harms the human being? – Now you have to take a position! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To conclude: Consumers need as much help as agriculture and farmers – both need it. Only information, information, transparency and a change in support policy will help. I mean, the product declaration, against the You have always resisted what you meant to be unreasonable for the economy et cetera, simply to be an effective control instrument, as well as providing tests in sufficient numbers, but also in sufficient goodness. In this respect, if you leave this institution to the free market, I would have my concerns again – and I am not very paranoid – because on the free market you will survive more easily if your tests are cheaper, you will also survive more easily and you will get more orders if the tests fail as some producers wish. The Agency has a hook in all the synergies that I do not want to dispute, but also: This agency has now come to a good part of the supervisory right of producers, namely agriculture. I'm polite and don't give up the saying "make the bock a gardener," but a little grumbling, a little reflection is definitely indicated. That is, I would simply ask you to consider in the debate ideology and the advantages and disadvantages of the free market against another ideology, which simply means safety in the food sector and responsibility for human health. Minister Chief! If you do, I'll be right. If this case occurs, I will also praise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13082	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13104	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment briefly on the comments made by my previous speakers. Mrs Mikl-Leiter, for example, meant that the opposition lays out false facts and facts here, we operated panic. I have to say that the ÖVP still obviously believes that it can do it with denials of the problem to just dive through here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The only thing that really causes panic among the people is your permanent attempts simply not to take note of the problem and pretend to be nothing at all. People are not stupid, nor are they allowed to sell for stupid. They see that there are massive problems in agriculture and that you simply try to deny it. As long as They pursue this strategy, there will be uncertain consumers. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where do we have a BSE case in Austria?]] We have thank God no BSE case in Austria. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Then we don't pretend if we don't have one!]] But with the pigs, the balance does not look so rosy, and you know that very well. A sentence to colleague Achatz. It is not a question of what would have been if this question had been answered by the predecessor of Minister Head, Minister Sickl. I'd like to write that to you in the main book. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since the flying of the pig mast scandal, six weeks have passed. However, we have heard it many times today – no measure has been taken by the Federal Government. All the fine speeches and announcements made by the Minister's Head also do not help. No measures have been taken because there is obviously still massive resistance from the coalition partner. The abuses are known. There is no central coordination point, the sampling and the sample number are completely uncoordinated. The research institutes are heavily overburdened. There are some samples in Upper Austria that have not been studied until today. [[Abg. Achatz: Not at all!]] This is a completely different process, and this is an absolutely good example of how not to do crisis management, how not to do it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: Completely false claims!]] It turns out – you can read this in this week's "profile" – that farmers have been informed of upcoming controls that they have been warned. There is even a mayor who freely admits it, apart from the Styrian Council of State, whose case is already known. There are farms in which positive samples have been found but which have been re-locked, simply because the time period between sampling and meat examination is so large. Please close from it, it's all in the best order and it's just a few individual cases, just a few black sheep, just like you do to close your eyes and just continue as before, that can't be the method of choice. No wonder consumers have no confidence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! For me, this is already a dramatic balance sheet. A few things you said before give me hope, but if I look around here, I will not let go of the feeling that even the agricultural lobby has not yet realized that there really has to be a paradigm change. I'd be interested now: In addition to the establishment of a food agency, which is anyway a dubious project because this is simply the attempt of the agricultural sector to involve even more control rights than it already has. When do you intend to finally solve this control chaos that we have in Austria? As the control competences are etched and branched, the question arises to me when there will finally be a really clear separation between production on the one hand and control on the other. I am pleased with your commitment to this, but I feel that you have not yet implemented yourself in the agricultural sector with this view. I believe it is very important to have a clear unbundling of competences. They are responsible for the veterinary sector. On the basis of the indirect federal administration, however, there are country-level agricultural councils which are again responsible for veterinary checks. Against this central problem that agriculture is constantly controlling itself, both in the field of feed, fertilisers, plant protection products and in the veterinary field, there is simply a need to systematically take action against this pre-programmed conflict of interest, otherwise there will always be a scandal of agriculture at regular intervals. And if you, Mr Schwarzenberger, do not make this point soon, then we will not be able to solve this problem. Finally, I would like to say: I mean, what is simply necessary in general is a reorientation of agriculture, a reorientation towards quality, towards ecologicalisation, towards animal welfare. Without that, it won't be.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13217	The Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Chief. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13239	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to correct some things. My predecessor, Mrs Ulli Sima, said that the above-story samples have not yet been controlled. Last Saturday, we saw to it that the samples from those Upper Austrian plants, which were suspected of swine fever, were immediately taken to Mödling with Gendarmeriestafette, where the reference studies were carried out immediately to ensure that the barriers no longer need to be maintained as necessary in order not to maintain an operating damage and injury to Austrian producers beyond what is necessary on the basis of the disease prevention measures to be put in place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of SPÖ) They spread out loud falsehoods!]] [[Abg. Eye: Panic mache! Remote diagnosis!]] I should also like to point out that it is always in my interest to remove the barriers where the accusations have proved to be unstoppable as quickly as possible. According to international practices, Austria must immediately report to the international disease centres in case of suspicion of disease, on which Austrian agriculture, the Austrian producers and the Austrian economy as a whole are being blocked by many countries, which can only be withdrawn if Austria and the relevant establishments implement the entire package of measures and not only promise the implementation of additional packages of measures, but also clearly demonstrate them. Mrs. Sima! They criticise the national governments here. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that I do not have a single state government in which your Parliament is not represented. So it is your responsibility to change things, including controls. I assume that all those who are represented in the state governments, as well as the members of the Federal Government who are committed to the Constitution and who have promised to comply with the laws of that Republic, are properly and on time compliance with their obligations, in accordance with the laws, and not differ from their designated legal ways. This applies to the members of the Federal Government as well as to the members of the national governments who have been apostrophized here today and who have been thought of with criticism. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we will be easier to do in Austria if, if we find ourselves under legislation, we are putting together to eliminate this deficit, rather than trying to do so, because the campaign is to damage Austrian consumers, producers and the Austrian economy at the expense of the Austrian economy, perhaps to win some vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13294	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Pecker. The clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13337	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No one wants to link the eyes of the Austrians, but this urgent request of the Greens is panic-making with falsehoods that result in many consumers who simply don't know what to eat and are allowed to eat at all, and are thus insecure. That's not the point of the matter either. Let us therefore stay on the ground of reality! We have very safe food in Austria. We have a strict food law. [[Abg. May. Kogler: colleague! You don't need that style!]] – Please listen briefly! – We have a strict food law, which in principle forbids everything that is not expressly permitted. We still have a food code, which requires Austrian manufacturers to have the guidelines for the production of food. We have strict controls not only on the final product, but also at all stages of processing. Of course, a medium-sized processing company has daily – daily! - a veterinary check in the house. We have strict hygiene regulations which have become much more stringent within the EU and which have required large investments from the manufacturing industry and agriculture. For about a year, we have had new HACCP, strict hygiene guidelines, which have hit Austria's gastronomy companies heavily, especially because of the high investment. Despite the controls, food in our country has become increasingly cheaper due to the high competitive pressure and the large concentration of trade. However, we also have the phenomenon that people in our country are staying healthy for longer and longer, and that is what we owe not only to better medical care, but also to the better supply of food-friendly and safe food. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the current events in the meat sector. I would like to quote Professor Schuller, the head of the Federal Institute for Animal Disease Control in Mödling, who as the highest BSE controller says: "You may know from the media that a non-event has taken place in recent weeks. Thank God there has been no BSE case in Austria until now. But it is fascinating for me to observe how you can actually beat waves with nothing." However, we still have a 30 percent reduction in beef, and as a zero BSE case country, we have the same problems as another EU country, which already has 177 000 BSE cases. Now to your allegation that the food research institutes are overshadowed. The food research institutes in Austria have already investigated 30,000 cattle, thank God there was no BSE case among them. I can quote Professor Schuller once again, who says: "We are currently with the" – and please listen briefly! – "Five investigative bodies are able to process even more samples than are currently under way." – No word of lack of control, no word of exaggeration, even more samples could examine the five investigative bodies than they should at present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They demand more personnel for control at all levels. You're demanding more vets, you're demanding more official food inspectors. But please also tell the Austrians that more control also means more costs. No matter how we impose these additional costs, it pays the taxpayer or the Austrian consumer over higher food prices. I am already in favour of the fact that, before we afford Austrian food, we are really cleaning up double leaks in the current food tests and using synergies. I do not see why foods have to be examined x-times by different institutions, with partly different methods and different results. These are unnecessary costs which are currently being incurred, and I believe that the Food Agency, the Food Safety Agency, will help to better benefit these synergies and help save costs. I would also like to say a few words about punishment. They demand higher penalties. I think this is justified because of course it helps the correct ones. But please also say: Even now, an Austrian producer has been threatened with the highest penalties that exist, namely the loss of his existence. The blocking of a farm, a recovery action, a seizure of food on the market is the biggest threat to a manufacturer. This costs the operation a few hundred thousand schilling, if not his existence. We already have these measures today, which today are imposed and thus rightly protect Austrian consumers. But these are as high a penalty as you can't even demand. Finally, I would like to say: Let us use the current crisis as an opportunity! We should eliminate real loopholes. I am also in favour of abolishing the criminality of possession of illegal drugs in agriculture. But we also hope that this crisis will increase the long-term image of Austrian food and also increase the demand for organic food.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13393	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. The speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13414	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a health politician, as a member of the Liberal Group, and above all as a doctor, it is a very special concern for me to repeatedly point out consumer protection. We have always done this in the past and we are doing it with increased pressure now as a government party. That is why I welcome the fact that this urgent question has come today, because it has led Mr Bundesminister to have the opportunity to clarify his course, to clarify his actions and to dispel your concerns clearly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig, in her six-sided Preamble to the urgent question, has put an incorrect attitude on the others, and, apart from being poorly researched, she has also scared consumers, without reason. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Prove what is wrong! Tell the other numbers!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you have been very badly researched, because many of the figures you have put forward are simply not voting. Consumers are already sufficiently scared by the lack of European agricultural policy with mass animal husbandry, with drug feeding, with animal meal feeding. [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea! Don't always talk to the EU!]] But now, since this new reform government is in power, a lot has already happened – and unfortunately, at the European level, some things have happened to God. [[Abg. Oillinger: "Passed"...!]] But what we could do at national level we did. We have also asserted our influence internationally, in the European field. I would like to thank Mr Bundesminister Head and also Mr. State Secretary Waneck for taking up their work in an exemplary way in the sense of Austrian and European consumers, who have already been successful in doing so, and I am sure that they will continue in the future. I would also like to thank you very much for the detailed answer to your question, which must have been the last of your doubts if you are to assess objectively. I refer only to the title of this urgent question: Control chaos and protection of right-wing breakers. My very dear Green Group! In their ranks there is a member of the Austrian Federal Government who calls it "a protector of right-wing breakers", and in their ranks there are many who sign this. I ask you to: Excuse me! This can't stay in the room without any contradiction. Excuse me! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] I am surprised that the President of the National Council has not yet asked you to do so. I call for this with all vehemence. I do not allow a minister of this federal government to be referred to as a "guard of right-wing breakers". [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition: Learn the basics, Mrs. Glavischnig! [[Abg. Brosz: From you?]] – You would have had an opportunity in primary school to add and subtract every semi-spiritually awakened adult student, perhaps multiply. – You have made a comparison, according to which 200 house searches are carried out in Germany, while in Lower Austria there are only 45. I figured this out. Germany has about 70 times the population, which would then be, sometimes 47, about 3 290 house searches. [[Abg. Oils: 7 times, not 70 times!]] Yes, yes, to learn basics, not so many tails in the folk school, of which you could have benefited today as a Member of Parliament, then you do not need to be stupidized. Six weeks after the flight of the pig scandal has still not been concluded, you say. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: He said himself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has told you exactly what consequences have been brought. Six weeks after the flight of the pig scandal is already wrong, because the pig scandal has flown up six years ago. Six years ago, after accession to the European Union, we were able to detect small transporters filled with antibiotics at the Innkreis motorway. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What have you done since then?- Oh, my God!]] At that time, we were in the opposition and had the most fierce – fierce! – protested against it. Her wanted coalition party was in the government at the time. Mrs. Prammer has already left the hall quickly during the remarks of Mr. Federal Minister's Head today and has got a red head on her red dress. She didn't even want to comment anymore, she's not even on the speaker list. She has for years failed as a Minister for Consumer Protection. It is to which you should have sent the request. Mrs. Glavischnig, it was you, Mrs. Ex-Minister, Alt-Minister Prammer. You have made this request one year and a half too late! In terms of content, it would have been right. But now she has arrived late. This Federal Government has already done everything that your criticism would not have done. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What has the Federal Government done?]] No one can do more than the Federal Minister of the Interior in the few months, in these 130 days, which he is the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Did you hear what he said?]] You have already seen it at the length of the answer. He almost didn't bring that over again, how much he's done. They don't want it to be true. They simply want to insure consumers, and, what is very bad, they want to criminalise the entire profession, namely the whole of Austrian medium-sized agriculture. On the other hand, we behave vehemently. We will not give you any more opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13576	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Other speaking time of the Greens: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13611	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing more than an hour already about really central issues of Austrian food policy. The current crisis in Austrian and European agricultural production and food production is demanding radical reforms. [[Abg. Achatz: Excuse me!]] That is why we Greens are asking you a urgent question today, Mr Federal Minister. [[Abg. Zierler: We expect an excuse from you today!]] This reform is necessary in terms of production, control and quality and brand policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 6 minutes you have time to apologize!]] This is also my obviously misunderstanding comment on the pig scandal, which I do not wish to repeat in the text here, to understand at the last meeting of the National Council, which I would like to take back. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Excuse yourself not to "return"!]] I am aware of what I am talking about: a radical change of course in the Austrian pig industry. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A word of regret, Mr Pirklhuber!]] Only this radical change makes it possible for consumer confidence to be truly regained in the long term, and this confidence is right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He can't do it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! That's why we're doing it, and that's the core of our efforts. We don't want symptom treatment, we don't want short-term retrusions on the system here, so to speak, but we want a fundamental reform that ensures that in Austria we not only confess to lips that we have high standards, but also that we control these standards that we also implement these standards in practice. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is probably what Mr. Van der Bellen told him not to apologize!]] That was our concern, and this is our concern, and it is a legitimate concern to demand that all the facts come to the table that there is transparency here, Minister of State, that we also get an insight into the relevant documents and data. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now apologise, that must be possible!]] It is not just a question of closing legal gaps; it has been overdue for a long time, and I assume – you have also made some of what you want to implement today – that this is really happening now and will also happen. No, it's more. It is also about taking all preventive measures. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He misses the chance!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen) Professor! What do you say he's not apologizing?]] I mean, you, Federal Minister, as a veterinary expert and top consumer protectionist, should go to the offensive here in order to really implement what we always lead in the mouth. We do not reach the highest standards when we prolong the use of antibiotics in Austria. And that's not just about the illegal use of drugs, no, it's very likely it's also about the legal use of drugs, because – Mr. Grünewald rightly noted this – antibiotics lead to resistance formations. There are a large number of European studies proving that use in feed and also in animal husbandry is very problematic. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't believe this until you finally apologize to the Austrians!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You are no longer credible!]] I would like to point out to you, Federal Minister, that two thirds of all active substances, antibiotic active substances in the animal mast are tetracycline – you will surely know that. There are about 2 300 tonnes of these funds that are used across the EU – also in Austria. In the meantime, it has become clear that these substances do not remain in the animal but also come to the fields via the manure, and these antibiotics are still highly water soluble. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Excuse me first!]] I ask you: What's going to be You do so that this antibiotic use in animal husbandry is no longer necessary? You as a veterinarian know as well as I do that the veterinarians also have a great responsibility in consulting the farmers, a responsibility with regard to the animal justice of the stables. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is incredible: Detests the Austrian population and does not apologize!]] It's also a chance. I hope that you, as an expert, will step up your discussion and put impulses here. It is also a question of examining the environmental effects, namely the environmental effects resulting from the legal use of antibiotics. There are already some international studies on this. I hope you will also conduct a study in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is unheard of!]] Finally, I would like to focus on positive approaches. The one thing is probably organic farming. I just want to correct you: We only have the 40 percent organic farming in the state of Salzburg. Unfortunately, it is only about 8 percent throughout the federal territory. In the last two years, it has been known that there has been a decline of 2 000 farms. We are also concerned that control is no longer at all saved, not shortened. The EU control reports clearly show that our control volume is currently too low. So, instead of outsourcing food control, Minister of State, Greens are talking about substantially strengthening it. You have so far remained indebted to us in detail to these reform steps. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't miss the chance, Mr. Cot!]] [[Abg. Young: You will remain guilty to us, Mr. Cot!]] I hope you'll explain it to us in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13887	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. I refer to the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13911	High house! Mr Pumberger, in his speech, not only raised misunderstandings regarding his knowledge of basic accounting, but also misunderstandings, and therefore I am correcting them. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not an actual correction! Start with the case!]] That is why I am actually correcting Mr Westenthal. Member Pumberger has spoken of the fact that, when comparing the 43 samples or 47 samples in Lower Austria with the 200 samples in Germany, one comes to an unfavourable relationship for Germany. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 47!]] I'm actually correcting: The 43 or 47 samples in Lower Austria were drawn in six weeks, the 200 samples in Germany are drawn weekly. Mr Pumberger has continued to claim – this part of his statement did not relate to Austria – that it is clear that in the relation Germany the 70-fold of Austria amounted to. [[Abg. Young: Lower Austria!]] – This is actually incorrect, because Germany has not reached the 70-fold relationship of Austria even in times of its greatest expansion. Mr Pumberger, I leave it to your knowledge of arithmetic...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13971	Mr Oellinger! There's really a misunderstanding on your side! This is not the comparison of Austria – Germany, 1 to 10, but Lower Austria – Germany. But I'd ask that we don't set a computer example now. I would ask you to close the sentence and end the actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13986	I leave it to you, Mr Pumberger, to make it clear to us how the relations between the samples between Austria and Germany actually are. [[Abg. Young: Sit down, not enough!]] I don't think both of them are enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14032	The actual correction has ended. The next speaker is Mrs Anna Huber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14059	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! If one draws a summary of today's debate, one finds that several facts have crystallized, especially the fact that consumers are deeply unsure. This statement has been made by all the speakers here. Consumers react by buying fewer meat, farmers are afraid of their existence, and also employees in the meat industry are afraid of their jobs. Let us look at what is now, six weeks after the drug abuse in pig farming, what crisis management of this Federal Government looks like? – Once again, there is the BSE crisis plan prescribed by the EU. It was announced by you, Minister, a food agency, and there was a medicated beef meal. That's it! However, there is no really coordinated approach to the investigation of pig farms six weeks after the flight of the swine monkeys. Even the many beautiful words can't be beautiful. There are no additional controls, because all controls are carried out at the expense of the normal quota, there are no additional samples in pig meat, poultry, fish and so on – all against the background of the events of the last months. In view of these circumstances, should consumers have confidence? In food control – even this has been addressed – the savings pen governs, because there is no budgetary increase and no additional staff to draw additional samples and control them more. It saves money and saves staff – to read in the budgets! In view of that, do you still wonder that consumers are insecure? What are the consequences for food sinners? – You, Mr Minister, have announced that the Food Act should be amended. We support your proposals, but the Food Act has been amended a few weeks ago. But here, Mr Minister, you were not even ready – and I cannot spare you this accusation – to discuss all the proposals we have put forward to combat food sinners. Today, Mr Minister – and I think this is very positive – you have made a very clear reference to the reckless division of competence in the food sector, to the fragmentation of competences through their division with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture; and They have also dealt very clearly with the real problems, namely the necessary separation of production and control. Only: Since, Mr Minister, I wish you a great deal of pleasure in the enforcement of your coalition partner. Our support will provide you with a meaningful proposal. Since, ladies and gentlemen, I am responsible for the whole feed sector of the agriculture ministers, according to § 18 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure request that Molterer, Minister of Agriculture responsible for very relevant areas, be added to this debate on the urgent request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14107	The request is to involve Mr Molterer in the negotiations on the urgent question. I shall vote on this request. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ( towards SPÖ) That's too little! Half the team over there isn't there, it can't work! That's embarrassing: there's no Prammer, Kostelka, Gusenbauer! Pain to the square!]] – The request does not have the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Oh, oh!]] The next speaker is Mr Nikolaus Prinz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14170	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Huber, such requests, as you have just put them, are not sufficient because the two ministers, Mr President-in-Office and Mr Molterer, are working well on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With today's urgent question, the Green Group makes clear to the public what it really wants: The call "When is there finally the first BSE case in Austria?" can be heard between the lines written. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Absolutely next to it!]] And not a few of the SPÖ think very similar in this respect. The last months have shown this clearly, and in fact this is tangible for the blind with box gloves. You did not meet your responsibilities from the left opposition. Together with some of the media, they have contributed very much to the uncertainty and therefore bear the responsibility for the economic losses of farmers and the economy due to the BSE crisis. I call on the ladies and gentlemen of the journalists to check some information more about their seriality in the future. I am thinking, for example, of the case of swine fever in Upper Austria. BSE is in Austria a "sickness" spread by some of the media and by some politicians. You, ladies and gentlemen, do not really care about the economic foundations of farming in Austria. We farmers provide a lot of services for society, such as healthy food, clean air, clean water, relaxation landscape, well-kept cultural landscape and and and. However, it is only possible to provide these benefits if farmers are not deprived of the economic basis. The current situation among cattle farmers, where there is a loss of income of between 2 and 2.5 billion Schilling in this year, is at risk of existence for many farmers. The debate, which is being held by red and green at European level, turns, in short, to the following: a completely liberal market with additional conditions for agriculture, without paying off in any form. But the contradiction is best seen by the example of the German Chancellor Schröder, who once praised Austria's Alpine agriculture and once again told us the "Schrebergärtnerei" in agriculture. It would be time for those in the media and also those in politics who have so far contributed a lot to the uncertainty to rethink and finally take note that there is a lot happening in Austria in terms of consumer safety. Just a few examples of this: For more than ten years there has been a feeding ban on animal meal to ruminants. ==References== There is a general feeding ban on animal meal in January 2001. BSE tests already existed in the 1990s, since 1. There's them all over the country. God Be Thank you all so far – even if some people in this House wish for a different way so that they would finally be confirmed in their argumentation. Risk material is separated and disposed of. There is a ban on the use of animal meal in fertilisers, a ban on animal fat in dairy feed. The financing of BSE measures is ensured. There are rapid reactions to drug abuse of some fewer pigs producing farms. There must, of course, be consequences where there are transgressions. But the way in which the Greens and Animal Protection Organizations have acted is the actual scandal: to throw everyone into a pot first, and at the end of the day, no accusation is sustainable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I wonder, What was it about these rulers when they showed farms, such as in Upper Austria, which have not kept pigs on the farm for years? Such farms are displayed, and animal protectionists then tell the farmers: Yes, in fact, it is not against you anyway, but we must justify our work before our donors, our donors! Is that really what you want? – The situation of the farmers and the economy does not matter to you from the greens and your fellow fathers. [[Abg. Oellinger: Hello!]] You are the fear of the people piepegal, this your activity only serves to bring in more donations on the one hand and to maximize voting gains in Vienna on the other. [[Abg. Oils: Controversy with that?]] Do you really want to ruin the Gusto to a cut just because you don't know for yourself how it tastes and that it's especially good and healthy? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you want to make us responsible for pig poisoning?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that in this economically very difficult situation, two ministers have not abandoned the issue of action, namely Minister Head and Minister Molterer. I am thinking, for example, of the animal health service or of the food agency which has been addressed several times. The competent authorities are really working intensively, and everything is done to ensure the necessary food safety. But all of this must not be forgotten: If we want to have a rural agriculture with transparent food production, then we must give our farmers the economic basis for this. There is very good food in Austria that would deserve a fairer producer price. Whoever demands quality must also be willing to honor it. There is no reason, however, to spoil the desire and joy of healthy Austrian food, and we do not let it take either.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14281	Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask you to comply with the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14305	Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor spoke of the "greens and their fellows." He has also made a number of other statements which I have not noticed, but I would like to make a real correction on this one. I'm correcting: The Greens didn't break a deed. They're not fellow perpetrators. We have not made any sign of any farmer. In the future, I would ask you to abandon these accusations and these precepts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14344	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14365	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you've been following today's urgent attention, then once again it became clear that the Melon party has been slightly dried up today, because there has not been any juice behind it. At the latest following the statements made by the Federal Minister of State, you have noticed that the competence is on the government bank and not at the opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The green style of the last days – opera ball demo – found its continuation in your present-day activities, namely in the uncertainty of people and in mending. At this point, to establish a connection, I can briefly quote from the 'Salzburger Nachrichten'. Steininger has put it to the fore, which is the uncertainty of the Greens: Quote: "At the demonstration, green politician Madeleine Petrovic was also seen. As it is said, she has made herself available as an arbitrary mediator." [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] And on top of that: "There was a dialogue, as one might expect it to be in 'The last days of humanity' by Karl Kraus, but not in reality. So: Ms Petrovic analysed with a very high officer the escalating situation when a WEGA man injured in the face came along. Mrs Petrovic: “But it’s as bad as last time, isn’t it?” The bleeding cop, as unscrupulous as ready to go: ‘Ah, where, I’ve got myself today’ early on shaving g’cut.’ The scene still has a delightful side: Unlike her German party friend Joschka Fischer, Ms. Petrovic has distanced herself from taking one of the police." Ladies and gentlemen! What does this have to do with today's debate on BSE? – They wanted to blow in the head of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, but this failed and went by, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] More superficial than you did, you can't put on any urgent. I'd say, Not enough, sit down, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Brosz: (showing towards the speaker) Please!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is, admittedly, a considerable dissatisfaction with consumers, and it is also an discomfort in politics. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Is that totally unfounded?]] We have the Austrians here to signal problem solutions, and we should tackle the food problems that can not only be used in controls – these are also necessary, of course – once at the root. But it would be too cheap for us to act as a government-responsible party, as you have done, and as Mr Pirklhuber believes he must do, by calling all of Austria as a "swinning stable". That's the real scandal, and you tried to distract from it today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You did not have the size, Mr Pirklhuber, to apologise in every form! Ladies and gentlemen! Where are the problems? – Some examples: First of all: the "big-scale" – under quotation marks – in animal husbandry, cow stables without land. – In Austria, I admit, a part of the government has in the past been fighting this thesis of cow bars without land. Secondly, the lack of agricultural policy in the Union. – Mr Fischler is also significantly involved in this missing agricultural policy. Thirdly, concentration in the food trade. – It must be noted that two thirds of the total sales in the food trade of two companies are being handled today in Austria. The result is that producers are extortionable. What or who is to blame for it? – A lack of antitrust law from ancient times. And we as a coalition have new things to do. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially the greens, who repeatedly act as guardians of this diversity – including in the trade landscape – promote this concentration process, ladies and gentlemen from the Melon Party. Her representatives in Salzburg, for example, Mr. Schwaighofer, Green Countryman, and Mr. Padsch, City Councillor in Salzburg City, are the biggest movers in the sense of concrete on the green meadow, concentration in retail, a further concentration in this area, and are thus indirectly responsible for the fact that scandals like BSE happen because producers are under pressure – without apologising – and are repeatedly forced to deliver at cheaper prices. As a result, scandals arise, which – I say so now – you feel sorry for the creed voice here, ladies and gentlemen. That's why you're sorry! And that's why you've once more been juicy and powerless because you don't believe your own arguments anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A sentence also, ladies and gentlemen, to the consumer protectionists of the Chamber of Workers, who always act as the great saviors and the high guards over consumer protection. Ladies and gentlemen! They partly operate consumer protection in such a way that the price spiral moves downwards, according to the motto: Not how good is the raw material, but how cheap is the final product? But it can't be anymore! It must also be paid good money for an ordinary commodity, ladies and gentlemen. What have we heard in the past, even when it came to accession to the European Union? - That's what it said: The slaughterhouses on the land must be locked in the middle-sized carcass farms, for the sake of hygiene. What have we inherited with this thesis, with this pressure on medium-sized businesses? – The fact that we have the BSE scandal today that there is less hygiene, that the flatland has problems, that farmers who have problems with pricing and so on. All this is questionable! Example: long animal transports. That is why I say that the cost of dealing with this BSE crisis has to be paid for by those who caused it, and not the Austrians who have no fault of having this crisis, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The European Union should take a look at where the billions are simmering! With regard to Flachskandal's recent origin, where the Spanish Commissioner should also have her fingers in it? At the olive oil subsidies scandal? There are the billions! There is a need to see if you can't make money liquid if you're being properly managed! So we should solve the problems and not say that the Austrians should pay these things! Ladies and gentlemen! For example, this would also be a field of activity for Mr Voggenhuber, who repeatedly spits poison and galle from Brussels or Strasbourg against his own country when it comes to problem solutions! There he is to make himself strong for Austria and not against Austria, Mr Van der Bellen! You should express your views on this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you look at the figures of recent dates on BSE cases in the European Union, you can see: 180 501 cases in the United Kingdom, zero cases in Austria. Thank God in Austria zero, ladies and gentlemen! I just want to put the numbers in the right light once again. I do not hide – that has already been done – that the old government issued the animal meal ban in 1990. That was a positive signal. And what Minister Head has now continued with Minister Molterer is the future, my Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the problems. That is why I would like to say to you once again: This urgent matter was therefore so good and so important, because it was once again shown that this government is operational, innovative and, above all, the green opposition is not needed to solve problems. They are involved in violence – see Mr Pirklhuber and Mrs Petrovic! We don't want anything to do with this!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14492	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14513	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Minister! If, in the context of this urgent question, we are dealing with the problem of a missing agricultural policy and its serious effects on the health of consumers, I am not concerned, in turn, with causing you some inactivity in solving these problems. As simple as you did today, you shouldn't do it. You have decided on two budgets. You're on it and you're on it to decide on your third budget. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Three good budgets!]] So you would have had enough time to realize your ideas of an optimal consumer protection policy. – This only briefly so that you can see that this possibility would have been given for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You've had 30 years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whether animal meal in feed, whether illegal hormones, or antibiotics in pigs' mast: All these scandals are like a black and blue thread of special inactivity to consumers through the politics of this federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's funny! You've had 30 years!]] What happened in the meantime, Mr. Minister? What activities have you actually set up? – Little to nothing has happened except productions in the form of placardial beef food or the administration of further placebos of empty announcements. Minister! I am already aware of the fact that you have to deal with the effects of the agricultural policy I have already mentioned, which the EIAs have to answer. But still: It is no longer to be blamed for the fact that the policy of mere announcement, which follows little action, further threatens the health of people in this country. Let me return to the starting point of the missing agricultural policy. This policy, which is to be borne by the EIA, has only made possible the scandals that concern us today. Ladies and gentlemen! Only a serious change in this policy will ultimately give consumers the opportunity to guarantee the safe production of agricultural products. This would, however, include, in addition to other measures, a rapid change in agricultural policy, to which you will probably not be able and not willing. But I am also pleasantly surprised about this. Finally, a few words to the planned Food Safety Agency. I guess the next mogel pack will be prepared. The concept already suggests that the Bock should be made a gardener again. In good German, ladies and gentlemen: Again, production and control should be in one hand. This is a new immense provocation for me! If it really – and this is what it looks like at present – comes to this food safety agency, this is a subsidiary service of the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations. Federal Minister! I hope that you will prevail against your coalition partner. Our support will secure you in this matter in the interests of consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, Minister: This line of strict separation of production and control must also be understood throughout the countries. Only in this way can effective and independent control be guaranteed in the interests of consumers. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14589	Mrs Dr Petrovic spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14613	Mr President. High house! On the one hand, Mr Haigermoser, on the other hand, has expressed a dialogue between me and some police officers in a way that I do not know where. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "Salzburger Nachrichten"!]] This dialogue only corresponds in sub-areas to the facts, but not to a reference to the demonstration of last year. [[Contradict with the liberals]] It can't have been that way either. On another point, Mr Haigermoser has made a connex between Mr Pirklhuber and me and violent acts and violence. – That too is incorrect! That has never existed in this way and will never exist. On the other hand, I ask myself why Mr Schimanek, a person who is...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14648	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! As president of the club, you know: Questions cannot be asked in case of actual corrections!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14675	I say: There is no connex for violence in us, but perhaps with Mr Schimanek, what is still going through the media.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14705	The next speaker is Mr Sevignani. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14726	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We liberals have always urged caution in EU agricultural policy. In addition to BSE, salmonellas, trichomonades, toxins, sewage sludge in feed, now foot-and-mouth disease, illegal hormones and growth hormones, Austrian consumers have since enjoyed a great deal in this EU agricultural policy. Ladies and gentlemen, only two remarks. First: Our Minister of State has responded immediately and correctly at every moment of the crisis. There is no case of BSE in Austria for 29 000 BSE tests! Nevertheless, the opposition does not allow us to play up this problem, which causes great damage to our farmers, to our economy, but not least to our tourism. An example: Outside Tyrol. Numerous media and many people are waiting for the first case: Finally, there are BSE in Austria! Newspapers, media reports: The first case in Austria! Then it turns out it wasn't a BSE case, it was just a suspicion. Nevertheless, one has presented this farm without remembering that an existence depends on it. When we talk about the causes of BSE, we also need to talk about the symptoms of an EU-wide agricultural system that is ill. This system of greed for profit has not stopped in front of Austria's stables. There are also "turbo" performance cows, growth hormones, antibiotics. The European agricultural market system is almost exclusively focused on the interests of producers and not on the needs of consumers. Debt is the EU's agricultural industrial complex, which has for years consciously and deliberately precipitated a healthy world under the motto "quantity before quality". I believe that when financing the follow-up costs of the BSE crisis, the EU must be asked to pay the cash. It cannot be that our farmers and consumers should pay for the missing agricultural policy. It is not to be seen that an BSE-free country like Austria should pay for a crisis that the EU has to answer with its agricultural policy. The burning of healthy killed animals is never confirmed by us liberals, especially in view of the fact that millions of people in the world are threatened by hunger. The key elements of a new agricultural policy are for us to promote small farmers and not the agricultural industry, to take particular account of natural animal husbandry, natural food production, stricter controls and penalties, but also an appropriate price for the highest quality in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14766	I would ask for the final sentence because the speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has ended.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14787	My final point, ladies and gentlemen: Nowhere is it as safe as Austria to eat beef. - Lunch!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14817	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. The remaining speaking time of the SPÖ Group is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14839	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! At the end of his speech, my previous speaker said, "Faith!" as some other speakers have pointed out, BSE is not present in Austria. Thank God, I say, we have no BSE case yet, and I hope we will never have one either. But, Mr Sevignani, we have other cases: Hormonal treatments in pigs' mast, administration of illegal, prohibited antibiotics, not by the... [[Abg. Auer: There are no hormones in the pig mast! That's stupid!]] Mr Auer, I would recommend you have a talk with the Veterinary Director of the Styria. [[Abg. Auer: I'll explain it to you once!]] He will confirm this and will also be able to provide you with relevant reports. But that, Mr Auer, is exactly the method you've been pursuing for years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] [[Abg. Auer: For those in need today, you have a helpless allowance!]] There have been such cases in the pig mast since 1986, but what does the ÖVP do, Mr Donabauer? - Eyes closed, ears closed, mouth closed. "Mund too!" But as far as possible with those who show the faults. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Sevignani! You have also mentioned the changes in the agricultural policy in your comments. I am in favour of this, and you have me on your side, because I too believe that the root of all the evil lies in this kind of agricultural policy, in this kind of support policy. But we will be able to make the sample of nails about your statements over the next few weeks, because the 2002 budget, as far as I have been able to read it so far, does not even allow for the recasts provided for in the horizontal regulation of the EU agricultural agenda. No, you'll continue this path very hard, so you can then criticize it. This is anything but "new governance" for the future of Austrian agriculture and also of Austrian consumers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Prince! As I have listened very closely from the outset to your remarks, I have noticed that you have mentioned the harmony in this new coalition, the harmony between the two ministers acting. I would recommend you, since you seem to have not listened to the speeches in the Minutes: on the one hand, the statements made by the Minister, who very much hope me that something will change, that he really wants to change something, and then the statements of your colleague Mikl-Leiter, who has said exactly the opposite of what the Minister has presented as a vision for the future. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a debated sign of this harmony and of this new government, which is suffering all over Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to make a brief reference to this new food safety agency. My colleague, Mr Maier, has already formulated this phrase wonderfully, so I can save myself. But one thing I can already question: On the basis of the constitution and the national constitutions, Mr Federal Minister, do we not already have this structure of the food agency at national level in Austria, and this nine times? Is it not true that at national level we have precisely these competences, all of them already, nine times in Austria? Is it not an attempt to transfer another coordination agency through these nine agencies now? And if this is the attempt, Mr. Federal Minister, I doubt that this will really be feasible, especially with your coalition partner. From the past negotiations, I know from personal experience how difficult it is to implement reasonable proposals in these areas with the negotiators of the Austrian People's Party. I can only repeat what my previous speakers said: If it is indeed your seriousness to change the indirect federal administration, to implement a corresponding reform, so that the means to protect consumers are actually guaranteed, then, Mr. Federal Minister, you have us on your side. I would really like you to be very happy to conclude the negotiations successfully with this coalition partner. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you are from the Austrian People's Party...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14921	I ask for the final sentence because the speaking time has been exhausted!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14942	I am at the end, Mr President. – If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People’s Party, have recognized the consumers as a partner of agriculture within the framework of today’s emergency parties, you have recognized them at least 15 years too late. Let's write this into the main book!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14973	There are no further words available to me. I therefore conclude this debate. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Magn. Maier concerning the closure of control gaps in the food sector – amendment of the Federal Ministerial Law 2000. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. This is what the urgent inquiry is about. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15015	We come to the implementation of the brief debate on the request of Mr Dr. Grünewald, the Financial Committee for Reporting on the request for removal from the planned taxation of accident pensions, a period of 30 years. ==References== The debate will take place in such a way that the founder has 10 minutes of speaking time, then each group will have 5 minutes and then the vote will take place. We are therefore going into the debate. I give the floor to Mr Oellinger for a statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15044	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. High house! Let us not stop by saying that it is strange for a politician, whether Mr Westenthaler or Mr Haider, to realize three months after a law has entered into force, which has already been strongly criticised from the beginning, before the decision-making process, that this law creates unfair hardships. Let's take the knowledge seriously. Mr. Khol has also gone through this knowledge: You can learn from mistakes. Just, ladies and gentlemen, how do you learn from mistakes? – By using a working group with the same gentlemen, who have already prepared a proposal, which has been accepted by you. And now you're going to give them the order – whatever Mr. Haider has already criticized – to rework it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To improve!]] – to improve. They also provide them with objectives on their way to this mission: The particularly burdened groups are supposed to be relieved a little, so – you write this too – accident pensioners as a result of a high degree of employment reduction. Mr Westenthaler goes here and says: We learn from the discussion with the population. Mr Westenthaler! I would like to inform you of a few voices from the population. There you can learn, and you will see that you did not understand the problem at all in the reason for your motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's nothing new!]] Follow me, Mr Westenthal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't follow!]] A person receives a pension of 10 000 S – so far tax-free – and an accident pension of 4000 S, also tax-free. The pension of 10 000 S is therefore tax-free because it is below the limit for taxation. In the future, this income of 14 000 S – reduced by a few hundred schilling for pensioners’ health insurance – is taxed, i.e. the annual income is subject to taxation. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Do you know, Mr Westenthaler, how much this person remains of the 4,000 s of their accident pension? You know that? - Half! - No, you didn't understand the example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] This person previously had a tax-free income of 10 000 S pension plus 4000 S accident pension. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I have exactly the example here!]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, the taxation that this person was not subject to before is merciless. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I could bring you examples, for example, the example of a gentleman – I leave his family name – Roland, who has worked for his life. Mr Westenthaler! That's going to get through to you. This person had an apprenticeship accident in 1957 and lost his hand. At the time, 60 per cent of the reduction in employment was said to him – the pension was calculated by his income – to receive a permanent pension of 1,701 p.m. This makes up a total of 2 600 S plus supplementary pension and child allowance, which is then added later. Mr Westenthaler! - No, it won't be repaired! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This will be repaired now!]] Let's talk about the facts! Man loses his hand as an apprentice 20 years old, 18 years old. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It is less than 20,000 S!]] You in the coalition government now say that we do not realize that this person receives a pension of 2 600 S throughout his life. That's too much to pay, we don't want to. We want this person, as you say, to make his fair share of taxation, and you halve his accident pension – I can tell you exactly that it was 2 600 S – on 868,10 p. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Read the request!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Less than half!]] At the age of 70 the man must think: That is what I am in this Republic, my insurance in which I have paid, and the politicians are obviously worth it. I lost a hand at the age of 18 and now get 880 S net. I tell you one thing, Mr Westenthaler and Mr Khol – even if he is not here –: Everything you're trying to do in the context of hard cases is going wrong! I guarantee you that. They cannot guarantee the constitutional and legal equality of insurance benefits. Obviously, you don't care. They want to disburse only at the expense of the accident pensioners, who are now being removed from the balance of 1 000 S, 2 000 S, 3 000 S month after month. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You did not read our request! That's polemic!]] Mr Westenthaler! All you have said in the request is that in some cases of hardness, especially in those with high accident rates, you are willing to think about a hard-falling scheme. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Under 20,000 S!]] Mr Westenthaler! You still have not understood that all these accidents are fatalities! They are this all their lives, because they are mutilated because they are congested because they can no longer move and because they therefore have a damned right to get rid of their accident insurance, Mr Westenthaler! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, understand that these people have been taken away part of their body, part of their lives, and that you do not have the right, after working for a lifetime, to pay taxes for this republic and to pay insurance contributions, you take from this insurance too much, you take from this republic too much, and therefore we must tax you "righteous" – as it is called in your language – "socially sound". – This is really pure cynicism! 2 000 S, 3 000 S or even 1 000 S of a 3 000 S pension, take away the people! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's the reality! Mr Haider has heard this very well in his speech by recurring on the simple facts. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't get it! You don't get it!]] But his proposal for a solution is exactly what you have written in your request, and that will not last. This won't last, I guarantee you! This does not hold in front of the Constitutional Court, and it does not hold because people do not like it. You will have to pay that if you do not want to see that is a real injustice to people. I'm telling you why this will be like this: It will not last because, of course, the accident pension has a compensation character. You can not only read this in the history of the accident pension, you can also read it in the ABGB. There, too, this character is held. However, it also follows, Mr Westenthaler, that you will have a damn problem to justify to people why a person is not paying taxes on a private accident pension and is to pay taxes in the future or now in the case of a public accident pension. It also follows that you will have difficulty explaining to people and the Constitutional Court why the accident pensions are excluded from taxation under the Military Supply Act, while the other taxes must be paid. It also follows that you will have difficulty explaining to people in this country that from the outset they can claim an accident pension reduced by one third, because the pension is reduced by one third or reduced as a flat-rate deduction from accident insurance, which was actually delivered to the Ministry of Finance a long time ago, and why people should now pay for the policies of the past, but even more are asked to cash out by this coalition government and why the people in that country, the accidents, the disabled, the consequences of your policy should be overcome. Ladies and gentlemen! You will have difficulty finding even some approach to a somewhat socially just solution as a way out of the dilemma in which you have maneuvered yourself. I guarantee you that your solutions are not even in the approach worthy of discussion in the sense of socially just and legally correct. That is why you only have a chance to agree to our deadline. Then you solved the problem as it should be solved.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15266	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15287	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the government parties, please finally understand that you are bringing people about their rights and now, in part, their existence in life. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have introduced the accident pension tax in 1988! It wasn't us!]] The accident pension tax has been introduced from the point of view – I know – that pensions have to be increased because otherwise taxation is not justified. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 1988!]] You know that. Because of this, because it failed, it was taken back. You know that as well as I do, and that doesn't change when you say it here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In 1992 the Constitutional Court removed it!]] But your "new governance" shows a completely different character. I claim that this rests on three pillars: first on the pillar of non-social confidence, second on the pillar of the back and forth, pure of chaos, as we have clearly established in the last days, and third on the pillar – that is to you the most important – of the beautiful speech of these basic components with the supposed magic words you call savings, suspensions and fetish zero deficit. That's the only thing. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't think anything new, always just repeat the old one!]] I can provide you with proof of this first pillar of non-social policy. First, the accident pensioners are being put down as social pensioners. The Wifo's monthly report reads as follows: The increase in social security blurs the impression of social balance by targeting socially weaker claimants. – No need for addition. Further evidence: What do you say? Do you have a pensioner who has 12 000 S pension and 3 000 S accident pension and lose 854 S per month? – It loses almost 1,000 s a month! You're not going to say that's exactly the luxury big earner. How do you explain to a person who lost the thigh after an accident at work, whose thigh was amputated, whose toes were amputated, and whose employability is reduced to 80 percent, that he loses 3 400 s of his previous claim – not his bread of grace – in the month? What do you say? In view of this policy you are presenting, are you these people? [[Abg. Dr. Antoni: They don't care! You're not here anymore!]] You know just as I do that 60 percent of the pensioners concerned are pensioners and that the average income – that is, the pension and the accident pension together – is 14 000 S gross. And in view of that, one says: Social spokespersons of the ÖVP: The accident pensioners did well to bring victims. – They get the money out of their pocket! That's it, and that's unsocial! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Pillars two: From time to time, chaos, once before, once back, ÖVP says so, FPÖ says so. The self-appointed lawyer of the "little man" has letters written to a malignant accident pensioner who says that they like to look beyond the "ten of egocentrics" and bring sacrifices. They'd have to understand. Then, suddenly, election campaign breaks out in Vienna, and he thinks of another. Robin Hood or the "Theatermaker in the gym", as the "Kurier" called him, travels from Carinthia, throws himself into the stuff and says: I believe that the real mistake in the whole budget recovery was that a significant financial volume – social security of a few billion schilling – was taken as a measure of budget recovery at all. There are other areas where you could get money. Now, however, the Faschingsscherz is going to start right. That's what you saw on Sunday. The ÖVP Secretary-General is dissociating and opposed to the proposal. Haider says the important players sat elsewhere. He is right, because in the evening everything is on the belly in front of the Big Boss Haider, and Klubobmann Khol says that the decision to withdraw these pensions could still be made on Thursday or Friday in the National Council. – You have another chance today: Voices If you accept our motions for resolutions, then Khol has not lied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wonder, Who is going through the FPÖ? - Me or me? On Monday everything will be different again. But it's carnival, it's not about people with bad fates and about money for life. It's about something completely different. Khol says: The Minister of Finance has misinformed us. Haider makes a withdrawal and says: The experts didn't tell us how bad this is at all. Of course, Professor Mazal rejects this immediately. The hot potato will be given back and forth, and today Minister of Finance Grasser says: We're a little sorry anyway, we didn't want to. But now it has obviously happened, and it will somehow be repaired.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15387	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15402	Take this knowledge seriously today! Today, you can vote in favour of the withdrawal of the accident pension tax, today and here, if you want to make responsible policies. We will, of course, agree to the deadline request, and the chairman of the Financial Committee will certainly be ready to negotiate the matter at any time. Let yourself be helped to rule, re-government!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15433	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15454	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Mrs Plank! You have no reason to stand up here and talk about the accident pensioners, because I would remind you of what happened under Minister of Finance Lacina in 1988. At that time other words were spoken to the accident pensioners, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Please go! Now we have 2001!]] I do not want to remind you of what Minister Lacina and many others from your ranks said at the time. We already expressed our concerns at the time. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Now, 2001, the money will be taken away from us, not 1988!]] 1988 was this bad year for the accident pensioners who still remember the accident pensioners, ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the request made by Mr Greenewald and to the deadline. Dr. Grünewald! Your request is wrong in many areas. Above all, the deadline is wrong. We want a decision today and immediately. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on which we can vote today and which requires the Federal Government to change very quickly those things which honourable Members Ollinger has just revealed. Yes, we want these things changed, ladies and gentlemen! And it is a shame to assume that we do not want any change in this regard, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is exactly what has been requested here is the content of the proposal from Westenthaler, Khol. We don't want to go on 30. In June 2001, the Federal Government or the Finance Ministers will be preparing the concrete proposals with the working group. [[Abg. Eder: Then do it!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It is wrong to refer here to taxation or double taxation of accident pensions. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Admit Far-be!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I quote you from the Austrian Trade Union Confederation's series on accident insurance. It is clear: Since the injured person receives two thirds of his gross income if he receives a full pension, he is almost economically regarded as having his normal income. Ladies and gentlemen! If as a full-time pensioner I get the same income as a self-employed person, I do not have a tax deduction. What is written in your request, Mr Van der Bellen, namely that there would have been or would have been a double taxation, is simply wrong! That must be said clearly, I believe. You should not go to the public again and again with false reports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Third point: It is certainly correct that this abstract pension, which provides legal accident insurance, has been repeatedly discussed controversially, both in the disabled and in the self-employed. She's been treated controversially everywhere. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What do you say to a person who is disabled from birth who has the same pain as someone who has a work accident who has the same difficulties as someone who has a work accident who has the same financial loss as someone who has a work accident but does not get a pension? This person is disabled from birth and has the same difficulties. What do you say, Mrs Plank, to such a person? - I don't know what you're replying to him. They will probably pull the axles and say that there is nothing we can do, whatever has been said by socialist social ministers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Plank: Insurance, compensation!]] I take note, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, that you want the taxation of war victims' pensions, that you want to tax the victims of crime, that you want to tax the victims. Ladies and gentlemen! I take note that you want this, because I took the word from Ollinger that he criticises that no taxation has occurred. I have to reject that very clearly and say no to that. We are in favour of quickly resolving these problems that have arisen, that we are deciding today that we will give the Minister of Finance the mandate to do so and that we will come to a concrete solution very quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15569	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15590	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, I miss something, your voice for disabled people in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I already signed today!]] What's wrong with you? Why Come Do you not and do what you are entitled to as an disabled speaker, namely to work for the interests of disabled people? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I already signed today! I have already signed and tabled the motion for a resolution today.]] Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! Do you know what you can do with your motion for a resolution? – Break and get out of here! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what you do!]] He's pointless, he's slowing down. We all know what it says, and what your motion for a resolution has to do with it is the same thing we have now, nothing. That the taxation of the accident pension hits exactly those who need it most, you have not yet gotten and want and will not get it, as well as that the taxation of the accident pension income losses up to 50 percent and more, and that thus you have harmed a group of disabled people who have become disabled during their activity and do not get an accident pension from Jux and Tollery. I would like to try to make it clear to you on the basis of a single example of what it is really all about. My colleague Karl Ollinger has already tried this, but I doubt you have the intelligence to understand what it is all about. [[He-Rufe with the liberals.]] Or, if you have the intelligence, then refuse to get what it's all about for hours. And that's much worse. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] A 38-year-old mechanical engineer suffered an accident at work in 1998. He is now 60 percent disabled and can only work more than 25 hours a week in the office due to his accident at work. This man is standing alone and, due to his disability due to the accident at work, has a disability-related allowance according to § 35 and § 105 EStG. What did the income situation look like for this man in 2000? - I'll charge them to you. This man had an income of 15 200 S gross and an accident pension of 6 288 S, i.e. a gross income of 21 488 S. He paid social security contributions of 2 682,80 S and no wage tax because he falls below the wage tax limit. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: What does this have to do with the deadline?]] So he had a total income of 18,805,20 S in 2000. In 2001 this man had 15,415 S, he had a legal wage increase. He receives an accident pension of 6 338.30 S, because it was increased by 0.8 percent at the beginning of the year. So his income is 21 700 p. Now this man remains less of his 6 338.30 S accident board to say and write 1 794.40 S, i.e. by 29 percent less. If you don't want to hear that it's 10 000 and a few schillings a wage-based income and that you've made the accident pension a wage-based income now, then you're either so unintelligent, or you refuse the reality! I'll allow you to put this example on the table. Look at this! Needs to do this You didn't need a working group from Dr. Mazal, you didn't need it before. You only need to ask me and many other disabled people in Austria. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: A joke!]] We would have presented you with this example of calculation that you have not heard or do not want to understand.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15711	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15732	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to talk to my predecessor too much now. However, I must give you a sentence, Mrs Haidlmayr: In the face of all the excitement, but a legitimate instrument of parliamentary democracy, namely a motion for a resolution duly tabled by two political groups in this House, which at least points to a lack of democratic understanding! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is already shocking if you want to deal with parliamentary democracy in this way, but this shows the lack of democratic understanding of the Greens as a whole. Mr Oellinger! Unfortunately, all that you have given of yourself today is not true and once again a distortion of the facts, as so often here today. With numbers you don't have it that much, we already know. All the examples you have brought – I even assume that they are voting, I do not think so, because we also have enough examples – are precisely those hardships and cases that we treat and relieve with the motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Oils: Even worse!]] [[Abg. Oils: There are only cases of hardness! All of them are cases of hardness!]] That is to say, you have brought exactly these cases, which of course also exist to us. It is precisely these cases that are ultimately relieved by the motion for a resolution – and, as I hope, then by the working group. We will ensure that there is no further hardship here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Square of the circle!]] What you are completely exploring, however, is the fact that there are other cases, Mr Oillinger! They make themselves there and say: These are all accident pensioners. These examples you mentioned today are all there are. – That is not true, Mr Oellinger, as you and I know. There are also other cases that are taking place in a higher income area – I know them too – such as the case of a manager who is infringing on an operating tennis tournament and who suddenly gets 3 000 S of an accident pension per month to his 120 000 S. That's exactly what you want to get rid of? - That doesn't fit in. Or have you, Mr Oellinger, now become the representative of the upper management? - Well, congratulations. Your voters will probably take note of this with applause. But that is not the case, but it is a question of balancing these hardships under 20 000 s accordingly, that nothing is happening here. Everything else would be nonsense, as would the complete withdrawal of the accident pension tax, because it would be socially unfair because you would also pay off the high-earners what you do not want, I suppose. That would be socially unfair. It would be a bit problematic if I took back the accident pension tax as a whole, because one thing would happen: A withdrawal would mean the end of the disability billions and the job offensive for disabled people, and that would be attributed to you. We don't want to. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We want to implement this job offensive for disabled people in this country. Finally, it is also financed by income from the accident pensions sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I have already quoted it today – I do not want to do it again now – as your Minister of Finance Lacina has advocated for equal treatment between invalidity pension and accident pension, and as your Minister of Finance, Lacina, in 1988, has explained here in the House that accident pensions were taxed four years later by the VfGH. That's the point. They stand out here and, so to speak, declare themselves the representative of the disabled: In reality, you have not only been against the disabled billions, against the job offensive that you have not achieved for decades, but you have also taken a very deep grip on the pockets of the disabled with your load packs in 1995 and 1996. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] They cut the care money, not just the [[Abg. Binder: Introduced! The Social Democrats have introduced it!]] They have reduced the small care bag fee, 1 000 s for the disabled, by half, that is 500 s – that money available to the disabled alone, with which they can get their own things. You cut it short. You are therefore not credible, for you have in the past been massively burdened by the disabled, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They are not credible for so long as you do not have an accident pensioner, but a very prominent pensioner in your own ranks, who leaves for Argentina with 17 million Schilling pension. In this respect, we hear nothing more from you. 17 million Schilling pension – and on the other hand, Mr Klima cashes a salary advance of 151 000 S and a chancellor's pension of 140 000 S, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] As long as it is not ensured that these state funds will be repaid or not paid out in millions, at least as far as the Chancellor's Board is concerned, you have no credibility at all! As long as you have the climate in your own ranks, Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, as long as you can forget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We will ensure that there is no burden on those disabled people who have less than 20 000 s.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15854	Deputies! Your speaking time is exhausted!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15869	That's something you haven't done for years!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15899	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a deadline of 30.6.2001 to be set by the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 299/A by Dr Grünewald and Comrades on the removal from the planned taxation of accident pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15936	I'm going to negotiate the 5th. Agenda item again. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15960	Mr President. We are at the item on the agenda, but on the same subject. Mr Grossruck claimed that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection could not have voted in favour of the SPÖ's request, namely the retroactive abolition of the taxation of accident pensions, because it was not appropriate. Mr Großruck! I'll tell you one thing: Today, your group has tabled a motion for a resolution on matter which is at least further away from the subject of the debate than the SPÖ's request for the debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in this report by the Court of Auditors, we have explicitly identified the headings of the invalidity pensioners and the incapacity pensioners and that the matter has not been decided easily – also in consultation with the Parliamentary Board. You cannot stem from your responsibility regarding your voting behaviour by pointing out that anything is not allowed. Let me tell you again: Firstly, it was acceptable, and secondly, even if you believe that you are an application for a vote to judge the matter. You can continue your "eggly dance" on the two motions for resolutions which are to be voted on, for, in fact, you have nothing to do with the retroactive abolition of this non-social measure. Admit yourself to that! It won't help you with all that Westenthaler has given you now. They understand by social certainty that the socially disadvantaged are affected. That's your policy, but that can't surprise you anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15998	Mr Brix is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16020	Mr President. High house! As Mr Grossruck first claimed from this point of view that you did not vote in committee because the request did not fit, I would like to say only that: The request was approved by the chairman according to § 27 of the Rules of Procedure – first of all. Secondly, invalidity pensions are included in the Court of Auditors' income report so that there is a direct link as well. Thirdly, If you claim here that you simply did not agree to this, then you will now stand up and agree with the request of the Social Democrats, with which we agree these injustices by 1. In 2001 the Commission adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Please agree! Take a break! Get up! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The pants!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the pants! What do you mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you mean?]] Mr Westenthaler! What you said, that you only want to help the weak, is not true again. You and your party agreed before Christmas that the incomes of the poor devil, the accident pensioner, should be taxed, and now you just want to move that. This is your shift tactics, just as you come from Oberlaa to Simmering and there claim that you are Simmeringer, which is not true, as everything is not true with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16082	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-52 of the supplements. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol and comrades with regard to compensation for hardness in the event of accident pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 59.) [[He- and Ah-Rufe at the Freemans towards SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is it?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That can't be good if you get up!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President of the Trade Union Confederation!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Plank and comrades on the abolition of the non-social taxation of accident pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ in the direction of the Free and ÖVP.]] 6. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report (III-75 of the Supplements) in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Relevant limitation law for the years 1998 and 1999 (498 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16196	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Edler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16223	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I do not see the Secretary of State right now. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been given a brief opinion at the previous point on the terms of reference law. I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors is particularly critical of the fact that the obligation to communicate has been very inadequate. I think that's what we've got to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors have made a great effort – and this is a hard work, I think, to collect the data. If we as the High House demand this, then the Court of Auditors, I believe, also has the right to receive the appropriate support in the implementation of this law. We have to ask ourselves why so many thousands, thousands, are not willing to declare their incomes. It's a federal law. No anonymous messages may be submitted. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to meet an old social democratic demand, namely the disclosure of incomes, the wealth situation in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Has climate also been exposed? What about President Vergestnich? – Disclosure!]] In the course of this, Mr Westenthaler, you will certainly come up with it, why some – those who give Polish speeches at Ashindi on Wednesday – and perhaps many others – pay only marginally for their assets tax. We could also have a very transparent discussion in the House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is very unfortunate that the Court of Auditors has often refused to give its opinion and that it has to call on the Constitutional Court to its aid. I hope that there will be a decision in this respect in order to be able to work direction-wise. The report provides a good basis for distinguishing by sector between professional groups. I am particularly entitled to address the income of self-employed and self-employed persons. It should be noted that the average income of self-employed persons in 1999 amounted to 199 800 S. A significant difference – we are constantly discussing this here in the house – exists between the income of women and that of men. The average income of women equal to 153 000 S is equal to an average male income of 235 000 S. Here, I believe, we need a great deal of political action together. Ladies and gentlemen! But, in comparison, the income of the self-employed is certainly interesting. In view of this, one could say: There's only the poor! However, I am very familiar with the situation in the economy, and I also know the concerns of the economy – especially as a Vienna MP, in terms of local services, because entire street trains collapse because supermarkets and shopping centres have been created. This is not only a problem of the Federal Capital, but probably any larger city in Austria. The incomes of self-employed persons have been addressed. For comparison: 199 800 S is the average income for the self-employed. In the case of self-employed, it is only 119 800 S. The Court of Auditors may well point out that these incomes are poorly comparable, because much also goes into loss depreciation. I believe that there is a political mandate for us or for the Minister of Finance to look more closely in this area. How are tax declarations actually made there? How is it really there with the bills? I think there is a great need for action, ladies and gentlemen. Summary: This report, as I believe, is a good basis for these deliberations. I would just like to make a few comments from my wait, because this is also appropriate to the accident pensioners. We've just dealt with the subject. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Don't pretend you didn't want that as if you didn't know what you decided! This is particularly true of you, Mr Westenthal. That was your statement when the chain of lights with accident victims before Christmas at the plenary session of this House was there. What have you said about the people who have stood up and voted against this non-social legislation? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Stop it!]] You said: That's the green and the red mob! , and this is also to be rejected today! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16293	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16362	Mr President of Parliament. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! First of all, as the leader of the Group of the Austrian People's Party in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, the President and his staff very much for the extensive report that has been delivered to us. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Hartinger.]] A warm thanks also to your officials. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at this report, you will notice that it will probably go into the book of records of weight and extent. [[The speaker shall keep the report up-to-date]] But you have to deal with him in terms of content. I believe that this report is an excellent reference work on the income situation in Austria, but also on the terms of reference law which we adopted in 1997. It has been rightly or wrongly criticised by the Court of Auditors that some or many have not announced their incomes despite the terms of reference. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website By a reminder of the Court of Auditors it was then 30. August 2000 6 400 people, about 85 percent of those in question. The Court of Auditors has therefore, I must say, rightly sought a model trial at the Constitutional Court against those who do not report their incomes, who call on the principle of equality, secrecy and data protection. It is now at the ECJ – there is the case – to decide whether our contract limitation law is constitutional and EU-compliant or not. I believe that it is only when this decision has been taken that we can fully discuss the new report. Now I come to a different dimension. Ladies and gentlemen! Why are there so many people in Austria who keep behind the mountain with their income? You have to discuss that too! Why doesn't the individual want the other person to see and know what he deserves? – This is different in the Scandinavian countries. It's a matter of talking about asking: What do you deserve? And the more one earns, the higher his income, the more he feels accepted in society. With us this is the opposite, and I am not surprised, ladies and gentlemen, because with us at least 20 or 25 years of profits, performance-related income, profits in the enterprises as a robbery against the general public have been propagated! That's the background. That's why we don't have a climate in Austria where everyone can go and say: Look, I deserve that much, and I deserve it rightfully, because I also do the performance for it. This is something we need to work on psychologically and also through appropriate information, through information – perhaps also with the help of the Reference Limitation Act: That there is no more shame in Austria that no one in Austria is afraid to announce his income. This, I believe, would save us some of the procedures within the meaning of the contract-limitation law. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a great deal of talk about the requests made in the Court of Auditors. We were of the opinion, Mr Kogler, that it is not right for an accident pension application to be submitted to the Court of Auditors Committee. We've already discussed this. I have, however, missed another request, namely a request for a correction of the Remuneration Restriction Act, a request concerning the stopping of loopholes when it comes to pension withdrawals. Mr Westenthaler first referred to the pension reduction, which was paid out by the OMV by the old Federal Chancellor Klima. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a scandal for me that a federal chancellor who, at the time of the decision making of the contract-limitation law, is sitting here on the government bank as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, then goes around the contract-limitation law decided by Parliament and to be executed by means of a public-sector company subject to the contract-limitation law, in the form of a pension settlement of 13, 14, 15 or 17 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a scandal that has to be discussed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does the union say about this?]] [[Abg. Edeller: What did a bowl get paid out? What about a bowl?]] Edler, I don't understand you. Normally, if you're a sincere social democrat, you go out here and say, Yes, I condemn what my former party president and Federal Chancellor climate did! – It would be a social democratic attitude instead of making calls and defending this attitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] But that's your problem. [[Abg. Edler: What about a bowl? How high was the handling of Mr. Schüssel?]] The same was true of the sanctions that you have still defended and where you then had to recognize that the Austrians and the majority are of a different opinion. The Austrians will also decide differently in the case of climate. That's why I suggest: Make a request that these loopholes be closed! It's not supposed to be "the case of climate." There should be several cases of the OMC. Maybe there's some inside here, too. Of our group there is no one, there is no one from the FPÖ Group either. It is known that in the SPÖ group there are some who used to be in the service of the OMV. These too are supposed to have been found. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it?]] I don't know if that's true, but there's going to be research on whether one or the other may have been deprived of the terms of reference by being found to be millions of pension claims, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edler: What, for example, has gotten stupid about finishing?]] Finally, I would like to say: It is a blessing for Austria that the current government is working, because now something is going on! We do something, we come to a zero deficit in re-indebtedness. The most unsocial, ladies and gentlemen, is to make debts and not to reduce debts. [[Abg. Edler: Why? Did you make debts?]] This government is insisting on doing the best in terms of society for Austria, namely reducing new debt and opening up opportunities to invest in order to work so that optimism in Austria can be rewarded. A blessing for our country – the government we now have!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16518	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16539	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! My previous speakers have addressed a large number of aspects in this context. I think it would be a good idea to arrange things a little – first according to Article I, paragraph 8(4) and then paragraph 3. Those who have been involved know the differences. The reporting system provides that, on the one hand, one represents the income situation of the Austrian population by sector and by function, et cetera. And the report is in fact there. This is the thick, pink book you've all received. In this context, it is not only thanks to the Court of Auditors – and I am very pleased to do so – but also to the "Statistics Austria" because the Court of Auditors is using research expertise and the data of "Statistics Austria", and its employees have created the work essentially. I am also saying this because I would like to follow the view I have heard from the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors – he will probably also present it himself – that it does not really make sense to direct the Court of Auditors to this task – in addition to that, from the title of the Relevant Restriction Act, which has mainly a different content – with the task of presenting this statistical convolutation. This does not call into question the sensibleness of the report, but rather the assignment of the draft. I think it might be more skillful – we may have to fix the law in some respects anyway; there have already been a few issues I am going to address – if we address this question and its solution in the same way as the "Statistics Austria". This would, as it were, save the Court of Auditors the existence as – apologise for the expression – throughput. We could, I believe, become a little more efficient in the matter of the progress of reports and the preparation of them. However, much more exciting is really a very different question, namely the reporting referred to in paragraph 3. This is about those references that are to be made public, both by employees and public-sector staff, but also by the companies that – salopp formulated – are mostly public-owned. Something's turned out. And as easy as Mr Grossruck was before, I would not take that, which meant so much, then we are now waiting for the Constitutional Court. Granted, the Court of Auditors has done everything it could. For this purpose, he should be quite grateful from this point of view, namely for what he is doing by virtue of the law. It has used up some possibilities and made a few different procedures available to the Constitutional Court to take up and decide on certain model cases. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – This appeal shall apply to the Court of Auditors. Nevertheless, the question arises whether it is possible to go beyond the applicable constitutional provisions. It is true that the institutions concerned are calling for, for example, data protection standards to be infringed, especially with regard to EU law. Nevertheless, these provisions are Austrian constitutional law, and are generally affected by institutions that are directly through-flooded and politically dominated. I would still see it if, so to speak, public-owned private-sector enterprises had certain concerns. There are also a number of questions to be clarified, such as the question of the insight into company data. Okay, that's what I had to talk to myself about. But for the fact that directly established institutions such as chambers, and especially the Chambers of Commerce, Mr Puttinger, refuse to do so, I lack any understanding. Mr Khol, who, until the time when he became a bit commercial with Haider, constantly spoke of the "Constitutional Arch" – we know in what context – would, I believe, be well advised if he had his black sheep in the chambers – also as regards this question, which is not irrelevant; Col. Großruck has performed it – once again under the "Constitutional Arch", so to speak, so to speak, so that not so many black sheep are grassed outside on the meadow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That would be a useful merit once! It is true that the Court of Auditors has nothing else to do with the law. But it is even more true that many public areas have a bearing on what is constitutional law. The Constitutional Guards of the ÖVP should take a special look at this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last point: That we need to correct a few points in this law seems plausible to me. This should be done, and it should not be ignored by the Green Group either, because the Green Group was known to have agreed to it at the time. And in essential areas, the contract limitation law is also good and smart, as I mean. We are opposed to the opinion of Mr Westenthaler. We believe that once we have to end with populism, constantly wanting to reduce political salaries, then, if necessary, establish social funds and then want to sell them. In particular, only one thing goes out, namely a lot of propaganda, but at least there are no sensible measures, because, first, as you manage, almost no money comes in. In the end, then, it is a question of ending this mutual deterioration of political incomes, as far as they are concerned with active politicians. As far as the pension issue is concerned, there has been a great deal of clarification with the pyramid system at the time. But what has not been clarified, these are a few loopholes – I actually give Grossruck the right again – as far as the transitional provisions are concerned. But let's see who put everyone in the old system! [[The speaker turns towards the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's your people, not ours. You're operating in the old system! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't want to name any names. This has been mentioned before. I want to do my job so I don't mention anyone here. But if there are still some who sit in the old system, then especially in the ranks of the blacks and the liberals, not only here in the house, but also in the country days. That's what you should write behind your ears! Mrs. Zierler! Come on. Get out of here and explain to us now how our Grazer Altvorderen is, Mr Ehrenobmann Alexander Götz! If we are debated here about retirement and pension levels, we should also mention these great pillar saints of the Privilegie Reitrij in pension questions, which have run to the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Come out and explain this to us! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16642	Mrs Zierler is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16663	Mr President. High house! Mr Kogler, I would very much like to accept your request to talk about the contract-limitation law, and also about problems with it, especially the problems you have with it, when you say that it must finally be concluded that politicians should perhaps give up some of their salary. We know that the Greens do not understand this and that the Greens are not prepared to explain themselves in solidarity with the population in Austria. And we know about the Social Democrats too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Sophie Bauer and Mr Edler.]] Just the SPÖ is the party that now and again says that one should disclose. But, ladies and gentlemen, when it is then laid open, then suddenly the great amazement is there! In fact, no one should have learned that, for example, the satisfaction of the execution emperors has recently experienced prominent strengthening from the proletariat, namely by Mr Viktor Klima, his sign of former President of Social Democracy. He has lost his power twice, and the recipe for it is relatively simple. "Vickerl's private pension model" is expected to go into Austrian privilege history. This model will go into the history of privilege. One simply takes a company with a pension commitment, then one that is willing to pay the pension rights in advance cash, one can cash the amount of tax advantage, even before the Minister of Finance wants to have more of it, one immediately saves one one cover of the well-respected political pension, one cash the pension loss in addition to manager's salary and chancellor's pension, twelve times more than 150 000 S salary advance, a total of 17 million schilling in cash, a chancellor's pension and a manager's salary in Argentina. Explain that to those you took the money out of your pocket! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Explain this to those who are now facing this state budget in Austria, which you have broken! And explain this to your little party members who left you with a hole in the party bank of 400 million schilling! I repeat: 400 million schilling! [[Abg. Edler: What about Mrs. Partik-Pablé?]] And then you've still agreed to send letters of bets! In it it was called: Dear Party Member! Help us! Help us, the SPÖ, so we can get out of debt again! And Mr Klima is just an example. Other members of the red nobility could already enjoy the blessings of capitalism. For example, Beppo Mauhart, when he was no longer desired in the "Austria tobacco", received 28 million schilling removals. Franz Vranitzky was even driven off to politics twice: once from the National Bank, another time from the Landesbank. Max Kothbauer, who rose from the pre-ministerial chamber to the top of the PSK and was then approved, came from the Vrannitzky stable. The "smear money" – yes, one really took the pain from him – was 15 million schilling. Other SPÖ politicians, in addition to their political relations, also employed as civil servants or pensioners for many years. This happened for many years in particular to Mr National Council President Fischer and Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. – Unfortunately, the gentlemen concerned are not here either, but I have some comments on this. For example, Mr. Heinz Fischer, President of the National Council, took part in the "ZiB 2" on 19 February. In June 1996, reference was made to charges of 243 000 S per month: "I've been thinking for a long time, but it's not embarrassing to me." [[Abg. Edler: Do you know Mr Höchtl?]] And Peter Kostelka, referring to his income, said in the broadcast "To cause" – literal quote –: "To the difference of others, I have never explained that I want to work." [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't do that yet!]] But let us come back to Mr Klima again, because it has a special relationship with money. While he left behind the debt of 400 million schilling after his retirement as Federal Chancellor and SPÖ Chairman of SPÖ, he always understood how to gain personal benefits for himself. When the reference pyramid was decided in 1997, FPÖ pointed out that this scheme entails massive income improvements for the Federal Chancellor, i.e. one million schilling annually. In response to the criticism of the FPÖ, he replied at Question Time that he, namely, Viktor Klima, would provide this increase in salary of charitative purposes. Quote climate: "I have always said this clearly and clearly, and I will inform the public at the appropriate time, for which charitable purpose I provide these additional incomes. - Quote. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what we're waiting for today!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Grolli!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The "appropriate time" has not yet come. That was already in 1998, but to this day there is radio silence. We are still waiting for the announcement of the charitative purpose to which it will carry the money. The Marode SPÖ party casket can't have been, otherwise you wouldn't have bothered the small members of the SPÖ. And a Grolli support fund has not been established either, because we would certainly have read that in the media. [[Ironic cheerfulness and "Wuff Wuff" noise at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Karl Marx was right when he said: You can't blame the capitalists if they behave capitalistally in a capitalist system. – I mean, one can take it very badly to the successors of Marx that they tarnish and sell their capitalist attitudes, their capitalist system as socialist!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16827	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Kogler. . Mr Member, please start by playing the claim to be corrected and by contrasting it with the corrected case-law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16851	Mr President. Mrs Zierler has here said that the Greens probably do not understand that parts of their income are given other purposes. It is true, however, that the Green MEPs have committed themselves by signature to paying to a Citizens' Initiative Fund, and we do. I can remind you of the following: When Götz sued the pension, we had already left Greens in the Graz Municipal Council with half of our income and provided it to a fund.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16900	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16921	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speaker, Mrs. Zierler, here gave her lecture on the sins of those who take them, but are not allowed to do so, I thought that now life is coming back in! When it came to the taxation of accident pensions, it was much calmer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] – Mr Pumberger, not only do you think – mostly not very well – but I also thought. That's just to your medicament. I would like to say something about the statements made by Mr Großruck – he is no longer here now. He's been talking about the Causa climate. I would like to ask Mr Großruck a question that Dr. Kostelka has already asked the Federal Chancellor, namely: What does Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel say about the accusation in the "profile" where it is claimed that the Federal Chancellor has a right of option to a leading role in the economic publishing and pension scheme, in the amount of a double-digit million? What does he say about it? – He only says that under the Incompatibilities Act no obligation would be available for him. [[Ah-and-oh call at the SPÖ.]] So he doesn't say anything about it! Ladies and gentlemen! In this way we can play for a long time. However, the current Federal Chancellor should give a clear answer to such an accusation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Don’t be so nervous, he can say he didn’t take it. If he didn't take it, then everything's clear. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: As clear as Vranitzky and climate! That's it!]] Back to the Court of Auditors report. Mr President, Dr. Fierce! Of course, I would also like to thank you very much, on behalf of my group, for the detailed presentation. Unfortunately, this is only a part of the income, namely that of the Austrians. The report is very comprehensive, very informative, which has already been identified today. I would also like to thank you, however, for the clarity with which you have stressed that public cash, all those who are examined by the Court of Auditors, are much more reticent, more cautious or say nothing about it when it comes to disclosing income. As I have taken from the discussion, the Chamber of Commerce is also one of those who do not say anything about income. I am not surprised in this context when the president of the Upper Austrian Economic Chamber, who is also the chairman of the Social Social Security Industrial Insurance, in the media, announces in the newspapers: I do not give up my mayor's salary! – He is also mayor of a small community. [[Abg. Leikam: Yes, you are an idiot!]] That's bad, I think, because he has no right to this salary at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And you know what else he says? – I only keep up with 4,000 s of it. – Well, he can do that if the municipality is less than 10 000 inhabitants. This is how it looks with the concealment of income in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Brix: Look here!]] The Court of Auditors also discussed the taxation of accident pensions. This has already been discussed enough today. I'm correcting myself: No, not enough, but I think you have to talk about it much more often. But the government parties have said that this does not belong to this committee. . I think it is even less part of today's agenda item of this meeting. What I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, is the following: You're talking about hard cases you want to compensate, and the whole thing is to make experts. – Do you not know that anyone who is disabled due to an accident is a case of hardship? Let me give you an example: An academic who has failed at the age of 35 has so far had 25 000 S pension and accident pension. Under the new scheme it lacks 4,000 S. This man would be I'm sure you don't think of it as a case of hardness. But that he has no chance, in addition to the psychological burden, of continuing to develop in his profession, besides personal stress, you do not want to take note of that. The personal situation of this disabled person overlooks you! That is why I say very clearly and clearly: Here, falsely categorized. Return to the agenda of the Committee of the Regions. This was also the last activity report. Unfortunately this point has been postponed, there was no time for that. However, in this last activity report, there has been an interesting review by the Court of Auditors, namely an examination of the 300 largest firms. And there was found – I'm just saying a number, because I don't have time anymore –: In two years alone, 700 million schilling went into the binsen! I emphasize: 700 million schilling! – That would be the case, ladies and gentlemen, and not the taxation of accident pensions! It's a very big cleaner, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17024	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17046	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr Kurt Gaßner! I think it would be appropriate to accept the decision of President Sigl that, on the basis of two functions, namely that of the President of the Upper Austrian Economic Chamber on the one hand and his activity in social security on the other, he comes to the level of the reference of a national council member and then waives his compensation for the office of mayor. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: He can't take anything!]] After all, you have forgotten to say what happens to the money that he, as mayor, now does not accept. This is done, and interest is promoted, for example, by youth projects and the like in the municipality of Bad Kreuzen. This is a very positive use. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Gaßner! That doesn't belong here in itself, but in this case I don't understand your criticism of your mayor's colleague, Viktor Sigl. Think of your own regulations in the community for which I personally have full understanding, because Mag. Brettbacher, your deputy mayor, is very supportive and does valuable work. This is not a problem, but it is not to blame others for being national councillors and mayors of a non-insignificant community in the Mühlviertel. Don't throw stones when you're sitting in the glass house! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Free references!]] Mr Gaßner! It is already a difference whether there is a suspicion in any newspaper or whether Mr. Alt-Bundeskanzler Klima has addressed everything accordingly, has exploited all loopholes, and has really been "imbedded" in the pocket of pants as a super-social democracy, which he once was and who would have other obligations. He probably doesn't bring the millions into it at all. Then add to others, that's unfair, I have to say quite honestly. I therefore come to the real issue, namely the Court of Auditors' report on the limitation law or the average income. Unfortunately, due to various circumstances already mentioned, it has not been possible for the Court of Auditors to submit a report on the terms of reference, because some of the data is incomplete or has been called up by the Court of Auditors. It has turned to the European Court of Justice in order to have everything clarified in accordance with the law. This also makes it rather difficult to estimate a time frame. It was particularly interesting for me to say that the work of the Court of Auditors in terms of personnel and property expenditure is already worth 26 million schilling. The report on average income was prepared by the Court of Auditors together with Statistics Austria and is based primarily on documents and information provided by the tax authority or on social security data. I believe that the report is really a very interesting reference work. In this context, I would just like to ask: Perhaps it would be possible to take into account, in a future such report on average income, in some way, how many parttime workers are represented in one group, so that the report may become a little more comparable or if the report's ability to express itself is even greater. Finally, however, I would like to thank all those who have drawn up this important report because it is a valuable work document for us Members, I believe.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17108	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Gässner in his speech, and he is well aware of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17133	Mr President. I am correct in correcting the statement made by my previous speaker, Prince, in which he meant that the President of the Upper Austrian Economic Chamber did not give up his mayor's content and gave it to young people. [[Abg. Prince: That's it!]] I'm actually correcting and notice that the mayor's salary would be the third salary from a public checkout. Therefore, he cannot give up on it, but he must not take it at all. It must not even be paid out to him. That's not all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17181	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I call Mrs Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17212	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr Gaßner, the SPÖ manages to shock me every time. [[Abg. Heinzl: But this is happening to us insanely!]] - Really? Is that what you're doing? You should also meet, Mr. Cot. I would be pleased if you were able to do this once because Mr Gaßner said that he thanked himself for the fact that the public cash offices did not make any or little announcements about their references – literally, Mr President! [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] I've written along. This really shocks me, because you know how high the deficit is in the cash registers, and you know how low the administrative expenses are supposed to be, according to the cash registers. [[Abg. Heinzl: You should listen before you...!]] Something's wrong. Why don't the checkouts announce the cover? Please explain this to me, Mr Gaßner. There has to be something to hide, or do I see it wrong? On the other hand, I also see how the SPÖ is constantly dealing with financial issues or with money in general. Only in today's edition of the "Kurier" was the case of a department head at the Ennstaler works in Upper Austria, in Steyr, who is at the same time vice-president. He was also a cashier in a savings club and was mistrusted by 20 million schilling there by transferring them to his private account, with the intention of achieving a better interest rate for the business savers. [[Abg. Leikam: Incredible!]] That's the policy you're running. That's what I'm really asking myself: Which policy is poison – your or ours? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: He probably got advice from Rosenstingl!]] But now we're going to have to get to the Relevant Limitation Act. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You really deserve to talk more about this topic. But as I said, the SPÖ challenged me out of here. I would also like to thank myself on behalf of my group for the very interesting report, because I know how difficult it is to draw up such reports or get all the documents. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Court of Auditors is a control body for me, and it is not, in fact, – in my own country, Mr Kogler – that it is not necessarily his task to produce statistics, but we as legislators should perhaps think about transferring it to another institution. But maybe it's going to be. You are still taking an opinion on this. The anonymous messages had to be requested by warning. They have really taken all the opportunity to take all the measures necessary to produce these statistics. Even the Constitutional Court has called you, but otherwise, of course, you have no further sanctions. I personally do not understand why, in Austria, one makes such a drama out of revealing the references. If I look in the US or in other countries, I see that it is natural to practice transparency in terms of income. Only with us is this a secret. Why, I really don't understand. I think it is an hour's commandment to give you the opportunity to disclose the statistics on the one hand and, on the other hand, to really use the human resources for examination activities, and, I say, as legislators, we can ensure that the government, the ministries and all the other institutions work well and learn from mistakes you may show. That's their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17305	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17327	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just say a few words on accident pensions. This morning we were approached with such a note on our social conscience. [[The speaker keeps an ÖGB leaflet up to date.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to others, our social conscience may not only be enough for today, but it should also be enough for the morning! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want to create, by limiting the budget deficit, the scope and conditions with which pensioners, the sick and the disabled will receive the social benefits that we receive today in the next ten, 20 and 30 years and even longer. A second dimension is that social conscience, namely justice. If, according to the present income report, workers earn an average gross amount of 9 590 S and many of it have to pay taxes, then, I think, they have little understanding that there are others who do not. Of course, many single women with children also have great additional burdens, as they not only have to care for themselves. And if pensioners have an average income of gross 9 700 S per month, they will also have little understanding that there are others who do not have to tax, because there are certainly many among the pensioners who are sick or so severely disabled that life has already become very difficult for them. [[Abg. Oillingers: Then the companies have to pay compensation! You can choose it!]] The number of accidents in companies is falling permanently, as safety measures in companies are getting better and better. Not for nothing, we also have a surplus in the accident insurance fund. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The income for accident pensions is 6 billion schilling, and the expected tax revenue is 2 billion schilling. Also here on this note is about a third. If this third is true, then the average income from the various sources of income of accident pensioners – including pensions – amounts to 300 000 S gross per year, i.e. double to triple of the income of those people whom I have previously referred to as women with particularly low incomes. I therefore believe that it is not right to reduce the taxation of accident pensions in principle. Ladies and gentlemen! One more thought to the end. This leaflet reads: One third of the accident pensions are paid by the Minister of Finance. – I mean: Thank God he personally does not de facto collect more than his due salary. But he does not collect these 2 billion schillings indirectly either, because half of them are used to reorganise the budget – i.e. to secure future social benefits – and the other half is paid again as disabled billions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But only for a year! You didn't understand! Only for a year this disability billion is valid!]] I am therefore in favour of maintaining the principle of the taxation of accident pensions. However, I am in favour of this expert group being able to rebalance hardships with special payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17410	The next speaker was Mr Pumberger. The watch is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17432	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been referred to the taxation of accident pensions. I would like to say the following: If, as the SPÖ calls for, we carry out a complete withdrawal of the accident pension tax, this also means that there will be a withdrawal of the disabled billions. If you want to, you have to say that clearly. This also means that there will be a withdrawal of the scheme, which will help to improve the severely injured, because a heavy-doer with more than 70 percent disability will receive a 50 percent supplement to his pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] If all of this is to be taken back completely, then that also falls away, and we don't want it. We want to see the severely injured people better in the future too. [[Abg. Oillinger: But in practice it looks different!]] We also want the disabled to have a better chance in the labour market in the future. That's why we need the disabled billions. We will therefore find a regulation that dispels the hardness – hardness that is known to all of us when individuals write how difficult it is. We have responded, and today we have decided on this. So it's done. It is being done in the interests of the disabled! With regard to terms of reference: I can't hear it anymore, when louder, very well-deserving, socially well-placed people blame each other for their references and talk of reference limitation. They obviously have no idea how many people in this country live at or below the poverty line. 1 million people, 1 million of our fellow citizens in Austria, have to struggle daily with financial survival! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] 300 000 children live below the poverty line and are to be recognized as vulnerable to poverty, Mr Social spokesperson Ollinger! We should think about this and talk about it when we make reference limits! These topics are well known to us: Climate, which takes off a double-digit million amount, then goes to Argentina and does not even have the money to feed his dog Grolli. Or Vrannitzky. Or the women of Kuntzl and Bures, who do not have enough with 100 000 members of the parliament, but who still have a Secretary-General's share of the heavyst marod SPÖ! [[Abg. Oils: You don't!]] Or Gusenbauer, who is not Klubobmann, but gets another 70 000 S from the party because he is 100 000 S too few. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Or Sallmutter, who gets 70 000 S as a union president and 45 000 S as the head of the association, or vice versa, and who does nothing 14 times a year, but does not do anything and blocks the work of the government. We should think about it! That would be the right debate to limit relations. That's where we should direct her. And we're going to stick to this issue too!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17514	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking, Mr Dr. Fierce. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17535	Mr President. High house! The Court of Auditors shall have a report to the National Council in accordance with § 8 para. 4 a report on the average income of the population as a whole. I am pleased that both in the Committee and today in the plenary session, the Members of all the political groups expressed their appreciation of this report. In connection with this, the Court of Auditors was also thanked and, as I believe, also the statistics of Austria, which had the main work to do. In fact, this report constitutes a real pitfall and should be evaluated both by the government and by the legislative authorities, because it actually provides a number of starting points for how social policy, employment policy and the like can be set the course for future times when it comes to eliminating perhaps emerging social hardships. I therefore believe that the sensibleness of drawing up such a report is out of question. But I mean – and in this I agree with some of my previous speakers – that perhaps it should be considered whether this report should not be drawn up in the final consequence by those who actually do the main work on the condition of this report. These are the staff of the Statistics Austria. It is not, I must stress, the Court of Auditors who is doing the main work for this report. It would, of course, be appropriate, here I share the view of my previous speakers, if we were to introduce a certain procedural simplification, the statistics of Austria themselves had this report drawn up, and if the Court of Auditors could release from the purely administrative activity of the draft report and template to the National Council. It would be in no way a reduction in the quality of the report, but it would be a simplification, because in such a case the position which actually collected the data, namely Austria's statistics, would also be responsible for presenting the report, and in the course of the discussions in the Court of Auditors Committee could be present. It was also suggested by some speakers that consideration should be given to the innovation of the reference limitation law. I believe that on this occasion we should also give room to this idea, namely the preparation of the report by the statistics of Austria. High house! This report should in itself include a second part – also mentioned by my previous speakers – namely a report according to § 8 para. 1 to 3 of the Relevant Limitation Act, i.e. a list of all those persons who receive more than 80 percent of the reference of a National Councillor from public checkouts. The Court of Auditors has explained in detail in the preface to this report why it has not been able to draw up this report: first of all, because many refusals, which in the last episode could be reduced slightly, but whose number is still very impressive, have been made, thus preventing the Court of Auditors from collecting them in full. As a result of these procedures, he has called on the Constitutional Court of Justice, which is subject to the jurisdiction of some of his audit bodies, in order to obtain the necessary data in this way. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court of Justice has seen itself asked to refer the issue to the European Court of Justice by way of a preliminary ruling. It is therefore not possible at the present time for the Court of Auditors to draw up this report. And at the present time, the Constitutional Court is also unable to take a decision. When the decision is finally to fall, it must remain. We expect this to take several months. I would also like to speak on this occasion of some of the problems contained in this law. These are legal cases, for example, the question of whether or not the regulation of § 8 para. 1 to 3 of the Relevant Limitation Act, the municipalities are fully covered or only those communities with at least 20 000 inhabitants are covered. In addition to the issue of data protection, which is the subject of the proceedings before the European Court of Justice, this question has also been raised by the Court of Auditors to the Constitutional Court and there is still a decision. In the Court of Auditors' view, there are still a number of other provisions which are not completely clear in the contract limitation law. We assume that those questions raised by the Court of Auditors in connection with the contract limitation law to the Constitutional Court are also resolved by the Constitutional Court. But these are not all the questions that the Court of Auditors considers to be open in this law. I therefore believe that if, in fact, a revision of the Reference Restriction Act should be undertaken, one should also deal with these open questions, with these provisions to be read several times, and perhaps make them more clear, which would facilitate the application of the Reference Restriction Act in practice. We also know that those bodies dealing with the implementation of this law – and this is not just the Court of Auditors – have certain difficulties in interpreting individual provisions and without further complications of a solution. Finally, this also includes the question of what is happening with those cases in which the pensioners could be found, and more so. These are questions that we do not think are sufficiently clear in this law. They should be introduced in order to result in non-infinite court proceedings. I should therefore like to ask the National Council, in connection with the discussion of this report, to address these problems in the future in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the Reference Restriction Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17611	The next speaker was Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17635	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President Dr. Fierce, thank you very much for your opinion, for your words and also for the way in which a revision of the law could go. In the last debate on the 1996/97 report, I was able to say again today that the willingness of all political groups to adopt the legislation in order to improve its enforceability is very great. I think it would have been appropriate to discuss and discuss this in the Committee's debate. I really thank very much also the staff of the Statistics Austria. It has already been mentioned in the Committee that they have achieved a very substantial performance, which gives us the opportunity to look at the Austrian income objectively, to get an objective impression of the income relationships in Austria. I believe, like Mr President, that the debate can only begin now. In this report, we have a collection of suggestions, information, and thus, when it comes to future arrangements for certain groups of people, the statistical material and the documents at hand, in order to be able to properly assess the situation. But it was quite clear to me, of course, that through the approval – and I do not regret this, Mr Kogler; They are the chairman of the Committee of the Regions - the request concerning the taxation of accident pensions was the real issue "to be sloppy", i.e. an objective, detailed discussion on the subject was no longer possible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because your delegates wanted to go to the province for the carnival Tuesday!]] Since this is anyway the general issue today, everyone speaks about it, and now I am speaking about it. I deeply regret that it is indeed the case that no one in Austria is obviously allowed to have an income. This is probably a very special characteristic of Austrian mentality: They should all work a lot, everyone should donate a lot – but people should not have a higher income. We have ensured, by means of this contract limitation law, that those who derive their income mainly from public pots can do this no more than in two ways. There is nothing in it, and this should now appear in the report, but obviously many refuse to disclose their incomes, especially to us politicians, because we expect our envy. Overpaid are we – those who really do something – not at all for our achievements! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is, it is not very good and really not very appropriate if we always blame each other – I don't want to say the source at all – for so much to earn et cetera. It's something else if we catch someone when he's doing wrong. Since, I believe, it is also justified to point out to them, to a particular extent, that the morals in this House have clearly leased – earlier it was the right side, today it is the left one – and to say to them: You have a few "children" – some have not yet been mentioned – about which you have to talk, of course. [[Abg. May. Worm: Stupid!]] Climate, for example, or Schlögl in Lower Austria. Mr Schlögl went home and said: Mrs. Collaborator is supposed to sneak, now I'm going to be mayor! Then he still paid a supplementary salary from the party bank because he had to give up his ministerial salary. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Don't tell me once again, Mrs Trade Unionist, don't mention a pensioner sitting in our ranks and taking up a pension! I've seen, there's a lot of men coming to be 60 years old. You come to the retirement age, and I'll see if you're going to walk around in the penitentiary shirt and give up your pensions! Why Throw Do you think someone who is in retirement is referring to a pension that is anyway covered when he refers to as a Member of Parliament's income? What's bad about that? It's a difference whether I'm serving myself, whether I'm conscious of it, or whether I'm able to do it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I hope that all of you will have a pension, including those who are not just Members. That's the least. We all have a civil profession. I think it's good – in some cases it's hard to practice two occupations at the same time, and I don't know if it's good to really keep it going. But please, if one pays twice if one also works twice, then should he not be allowed to receive these two pensions, which are anyway covered?- Oh, my God! There are only a few that go beyond the cover. Yes, I wonder how that is possible! Where is he, Mr Ververtnich, the President of the Union? That's where my trade union heart breaks me up with anger! It's totally impossible to do what you do to people! Not only us, but also the other people! If, of course, you think of Mr. Gerharter, who was not very successful in the "consumer", then I understand your frustration, but we would have to have another discussion and distinguish from one case to another. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should stop blaming each other, which in the end only serves to spread sand to the people and to stand up as a special model child. And behind us, on the left and on the right, there are some who will soon destroy and blur this impression. One thing also bothers me, all day long and again: Please, don't think the population is so stupid and so incapable of being able to make its own judgment! Some are always so much loved that it is directly embarrassing – and it hurts me – and they are twisting the facts because they believe that it will be loved and the others will all be hated! That's the conlusio of today. If you listen there, you're going to be bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17719	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Kogler. – Ladies and gentlemen, please start by playing on the claim you wish to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17743	Mr President. The previous speaker, Mrs Bauer, in my own right, has claimed that the Committee did not have a proper debate on the report referred to in Article 1(8) of the Rules of Procedure, because at the same time a SPÖ application was approved. The right thing is: Although the request has been accepted, the debate has been organized in such a way that it has been discussed and voted on and then on the said report. And it was the colleagues from the ÖVP who no longer spoke. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] 19.4 1
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17772	Mr Grabner spoke in favour of a further actual correction. – I would also ask you to begin with the replay of the allegation you wish to correct, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17797	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bauer claimed that Mr Landeshauptmann's deputy, Schlögl, had received money from the party's fund. This is the untruth! I'm correcting: Landeshauptmann Deputy Schlögl didn't get any money from the SPÖ box!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17836	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report (III-75 of the supplements). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 370/A by Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Michael Krügerunde Genossen concerning a Federal Act establishing a "Communication Authority Austria" ("KommAustria") and a Federal Communications Senate, as well as the Cable and Satellite Radio Act, the Broadcasting Act, the Television Signal Act, the Telecommunications Act, the Access Control Act, the Signature Act and the Federal Finance Act for 2001 (507 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17888	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr. Dr. Cap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17916	Mr President. High house! Today, we have the opportunity to discuss once again the media authority, in whatever form it is finally decided to discuss. I'm just saying summating, because I'm only seven minutes away. The government and the government parties – and this is the outcome of the talks, including the negotiations in the Constitutional Committee – never intended to really set up a non-governmental media authority. In fact, there were only two considerations. One was to consider whether it would become a hidden government-dependent media authority, and the second was whether it would be an open government-dependent media authority. I already have the impression that, on the basis of the discussion in the last Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was a very clear statement by Mr Krüger, who could not have expected to make an appeal to the two-thirds media authority, which, as we thought and wanted, should really be a government independent media authority – that you did not want to make it so far that there was another discussion in the Constitutional Committee on this matter. We have proposed in the Constitutional Committee: Let us take the whole day before that, let's go through matter once again, and try to reach a consensus, so that it will become a truly non-governmental media authority! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Kostelka had no time!]] However, the representatives of the two government parties did not want to do so. They were also not willing to use all day to really negotiate it again. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The chairman didn't want to!]] First of all, I must express my disappointment at this, but at the same time add that in the discussion of the two-thirds, i.e. the so-called non-wisdom media authority, one has not been prepared to accept an order system and to design a system for finding decisions in the Media Commission, in the infrastructure commission, as they were planned at the time, in the general assembly, but also in the vocational body in such a way that the opposition parties in these bodies can decide decisively and not get and watch two places anywhere like "Balkon-Muppets", and the rest make the government parties, the government says, but that they can really decide. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] We know that you want to develop the Sicilian Vendetta over everything that is social-democratic. This has even been said openly in the Constitutional Committee! It has been said: We will leave you everything, but one certainly not: let go! [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: There you have experience!]] This by pointing out that you were never allowed to decide. So revenge was your motive from the liberals. With the ÖVP, the motive has also been quite clear: There is no co-decision by the opposition parties in the media authority. And with this, by definition, it is always, in all negotiations and discussions, a government-dependent media authority. That's where you can do whatever you want. You can come right now, no matter what follow-up speakers that will be, and say yes, but it is unbound, constitutional and so forth. Don't come with me! In the final effect, the order form has been so planned and the decision-making processes and the quotas have been planned in such a way that only the government parties ultimately have the majority and therefore determine, especially in the appeal body, that is what you have to say. Now you have taken the mask from the face, namely the simple legal matter that we have to decide today. Once apart from the fact that two managing directors are set up so that there can be a black in the Federal Chancellor's Office and a blue in the Ministry of Infrastructure – we have expected that this will happen anyway – the appeal agency is particularly important, because all that is going to happen in the Media Commission and in the Infrastructure Commission will then land in the appeal agency that will be judicial. There will be a proposal that the government can or will not accept, but two members will in any case appoint the government without any proposal. In fact, in the appeal agency, the government can determine all five members on its own initiative. So that's the very best! This gives the best proof that you really do not want to regulate, not reorganise, the media landscape in Austria, but to structure according to your blue-black power demands. That's the clear proof! If you had really planned to reorganise the media landscape in Austria, which might have led to conflicts with one media company or another, then it would have been a lot of fun if you had included the opposition parties so that all four parties in Parliament could bear it and you could also stand these conflicts – about as brave as Justice Minister Böhmdorfer recently did. But you did not want to do that, and this is the best proof that you do not have a democratic policy in your media policy and that you should not really compete – see your infrastructure policy at Telekom; it is also dissolved, it is also melted, there the management is also sent to the desert, because it was too competitive. No, you really want the media landscape to meet and integrate your blue-black need according to subordination among the information interests of government policy. That's what you're planning, and that's why I'm telling you: If you do this anyway, then it may have really failed, it is not a covert government-dependent media authority, but a visible government-dependent media authority in which political responsibility is clearly assigned. So from now on, we'll have the bowl-dependent media authority, and then we'll have the Forstinger-dependent infrastructure authority, and I'll have to say to the latter that the area didn't deserve it at all, but that's the result. Whether the other area deserves the bowl dependency, that remains to be expected. I'm fighting that too. But the political responsibilities are clear here, and now you will have to take responsibility for all the decisions to be taken in this area, and that is at least more honest. But you could have said from the house what you were planning, then we would all have done easier and saved us time. This would have been a great failure, namely to admit that you have never, for a single second, really been seeking a government-independent media authority.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18014	Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18035	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am sad today because the attempt, together with the opposition, to create an independent professional regulator for the growing economies of telecommunications and media has unfortunately failed. And even if you stress so often, Mr Cap, that only hidden dependent authorities had been created, I must say to you: This also does not become more correct by frequent repetition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unfortunately, we have to note with regret that you were not willing to create such an independent authority together with us in constructive discussions. I'm very sorry, as I said. In fact, we have also missed the opportunity to create a European standard authority. In fact, this is also the problem. We – the State Secretary and also the government groups – have tried to get the opposition into the common boat, but the consent was not given. I don't understand, I can't explain, and I'm sorry. Mr Cap! The demands of SPÖ, which you left out of the bag last, were unfulfilled. They also knew very well that they were unfulfilled. As you have also referred to the Constitutional Committee: Yesterday, there were a lot of speech reports from the SPÖ, but there was no single proposal for content to my great regrets, but you have only repeatedly stressed that you are now ready to talk, and we should finally put proposals on the table. They have requested proposals from us, but they have not even made a single concrete proposal. We have made proposals on content, but you have never accepted them. In fact – you could see that if you've been following the discussion about the media authority lately – you've unfortunately played a cat-and-mouse game with us, preoccupied with cap's fairy tales to seek an agreement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm sorry, but I have to take note of it. We have therefore proposed a simple legal system today. It does not have the same future orientation as the original government template, but we need a regulation, and you know it very well. Private radio operators affected by the repeal by the Constitutional Court need the license for their further work, and they urgently need it because they also have the right to legal certainty. That is why we will hopefully also decide on this proposal today. It's not like you occasionally claimed that we still have an infinite amount of time to negotiate. We've been talking to each other for a long time, we've taken the time. It is now, I think, at least half a year since we had the first talks. The Secretary of State has held talks with you, and still has talks. [[Abg. Dr Povysil speaks to the State Secretary Morak, sitting on the Government Bank]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: And still have conversations!]] We've invested time. I think that was also important, but there is not only a time to negotiate, but finally there is also the time to make a decision, and that is what has come to be done today. I ask you, despite your rejection and despite your claim, that everything in this country is in truth dependent anyway and that only what the opposition proposes is independent – there is a peculiar change in your word messages in this respect, but we take note – today for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18094	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The clock is set to 8 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18115	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If Mr Cap in the proceedings in the Constitutional Committee suspects that there is a revenge on the SPÖ – I do not know what you did to your former coalition partner that he is now so avenged – then I can say from the green point of view that we were apparently too insignificant to trigger any kind of reaction. We have not been able to achieve with a draft law on broadcasting, which I think is quite clear, the creation of a subcommittee, let alone a debate in the committee or even an approval, which we had not expected anyway. So our main concern is to safeguard free, non-commercial radios, and neither is there any regulation on the regulation of frequencies by Mrs Forstinger. They're always talking about legal certainty. I say, in many areas, there is legal uncertainty. We have tried, at least for a few areas, to make a perhaps not quite absurd proposal, but it has not even been ignored, let alone some revenge changes have fallen victim to. The same was true of the KommAustria scheme. Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer! I also have a little suspicion that this is about power-political interests, especially the ÖVP and now with this two-person management also your coalition partner. If it were indeed so that it would have been only your concern to exchange views, then it could not have been that the Greens were so completely ignored. In the Committee, this was formally like a case of "Act X", because it was spoken of as papers or positions that might have been changed – for example, the abandonment of the President or the reduction to two commissions – and I thought in terms of single words: Aha! There must have been conversations sometime. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, of course, if we need the constitutional majority!]] – Aha, Mrs Fekter, it seems that opinions are only when they are relevant in terms of exactly what you need in order to enforce your interests. But if you ask, Where are the material ideas of the opposition?, then I must tell you that the Greens have – it was finally written l’art pour l’art – requests, we have done what you always ask for the opposition, but unfortunately it has not even been ignored! Perhaps this would have been a position, Mrs Fekter, but it would have been a compromise between your attitude and that of the SPÖ. You could have tried! It might have been worth considering this small start, too, with green positions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Now it's the way it is. I just found out there were some strange theses in the room, but we didn't know anything. The meeting was only "station" for us over long distances. And a second point, which somehow causes me to suspect that it could be more about the power-political interests of the rulers than about the matter itself, is the difference in one and the same Constitutional Committee. There, where the Constitutional Court and the mass proceedings are concerned, the rulers came up with a rather different proposal, but there it was actually quite easy to bring about a change that eventually led to a four-party solution. That's what I'm thinking: The Constitutional Court is not so directly in the influence of the rulers. So there it is possible to talk about the matter. But where things are about tough positions, about decision-making functions, there is no point of view. And I think that's very sad! Ladies and gentlemen! There are concerns in detail. It will only be shown whether the solution is also a constitutional review, because we believe that we should also talk and talk about the regulation of the audiovisual area of civil rights and that this is therefore a matter of independence. And since it will not be targeting to say: We imagine the authority as we propose, with the rights of nomination, and anything else we consider to be indisputable – agree, or not! - That's not how it goes. If you occasionally also need the voices of others – as I said, perhaps even our insignificant, non-constitutional voices – then you will have to move a little bit in the matter too. The whole thing is, and I'm getting to the end of it, especially painful. I think that will, of course, also raise the question of how oppositional voices can still be articulated in the future, because it is not only in a few minutes that the authority's dependence on guidance in the field of electronic media is thus anchored, but we also have a rather stunning concentration in the printing sector. And there seems to have been some strange events since the negotiations in the Committee. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] I have mentioned to Mr Krüger in the committee the ugly rumors that are so persistent that, as the rumors say, the liberal Klubobmann with the house of Fellner leads very intense discussions, for example in the form: If there is no opposition from the Minister of Justice, the reporting of some media could be a little more friendly. – I really don't know if this is a bad rumor or not. Mr Krüger said he didn't know anything. He doesn't know, he can't confirm that. And he was very much hoping in the Committee that this opposition would be filed by the Minister of Justice. Now I read: Böhmdorfer does not object, and Wolfgang Fellner speaks of the fairness of the Minister of Justice. – So much about the independent media in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18167	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18197	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! What Mrs Petrovic has now said at the end of her speech does not belong at all to the matter, but, of course, I am still voting on it. I also say here that I am extremely sorry that this recovery has not been brought in. I also say here that I would have seen a chance that this re-examination would have been successful. However, I also say that it was the FPÖ that it was my person who first initiated the antitrust proceedings by an allusion that was taken up by the cartel court. However, it is known that all the social partners have distanced themselves from a request for an examination. – This is the role of my person and the role of the FPÖ. The result of this procedure is that it has finally come to certain conditions. But I am not willing to say that I regret that there was no such recovery. However, I would like to say something to Mr Petrovic: Mrs Colleague, you have needed six months until you spoke for the first time in this matter of merger, namely at yesterday's meeting of the Constitutional Committee. You are the media speaker of your group, but you have not taken a stand against this merger in any press release. You have been silent, Mrs Petrovic! And Mr Schennach spoke only one month before the conclusion of the whole procedure. He has no mandate here, nor any media to fear. But you didn't think it necessary to say anything about it here. So don't act like someone who has acted against it! In other things, you are also not squeaky, as you even stand before the courts with transparency to influence any court decision. In this case, however, Mrs Petrovic, you are a bad witness to the fact that you have acted against this merger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to the matter itself: Mr Cap deceives on this and says that we could have negotiated all day in committee in order to achieve a positive outcome and a two-thirds clarification. That's why I'm saying he's just pretending because he's already been on the 24th. According to the APA issue, the January of this year found that he did not see any chance of any agreement. He sees no chance of reaching a consensus with the opposition on the question of "KommAustria". It is therefore a mere claim of protection if he says that he was still hoping that in a whole day's proceedings one could change a law that was really lost to the last detail with fifty counter-approachs from the opposition. I also wonder: When did the concrete counter-proposal come? Please, you already need two templates to negotiate! There was a paper in the form of an initiative proposal with an amendment, but there was nothing from the SPÖ. Please, Mr Cap, do not pretend that this was a serious matter of negotiating, otherwise Mr Kostelka, too, would not have had an important date at 10 a.m. and would have given the chair. In addition, we were of course forced to reach a rapid agreement that quickly set up the "KommAustria" because, as you know, on 19 November, we had to do so. In June 2001, the provisional licences of the radio operators expire. And if we had postponed again, the licenses would expire without the authority giving new licenses. This would lead to an inevitable result of insolvency in the broadcasting sector – a blamage that could not be bigger! I do not forget, however, to point out that this Blamage is actually meeting you politically anyway, because, despite two attempts, you have not succeeded in adopting a regional radio law, which is constitutionally waterproof. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to thank the opposition for all the critical discussions with the opposition now. I am not saying this with cynicism, not with any undertone, but I am saying that a certain constructive contribution has nevertheless been made in the Committee, and we take this contribution into account. It is about the second instance, the all-important second instance in the field of broadcasting, the Federal Communications Senate, which can not only overrule the first instance, but can also make decisions in the matter, which is therefore the decisive body. The law states: five members; for three members, a proposal must be made by the OGH President and the Supreme Court President. And that's where you said: Haha! The proposals can very well be made, only the government will choose, and we do not believe that the government is complying with these proposals by the Presidents of the Court. – Since we do not intend to do anything about this, we have no bad conscience. We do not need a bad conscience, but we are happy to take this constructive proposal into account. I will make a request that one of the three judges who is set up be proposed by the President of the OGH, the other two judges from the President of the Supreme Court, and that with regard to these proposals a binding – and that is the decisive! – the Federal Government exists. In addition, an invitation to tender should be made. This means that, of course, the suitability must also be included in the decision-making process. I would ask you to take note of this motion for a law, and I would like to thank the opposition for at least making a constructive contribution on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18276	Mrs Dr Petrovic spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18300	I am correcting the statements made by Mr Krüger, who said that I would have been in the committee for the first time on the cartel question, on the cartel causa. – This is incorrect! I have also deposited my criticism of the concentration in my dissenting opinion on the Private Radio Act in writing and very massively, but it is apparently the same fate as the green requests in this committee: You've been ignored. But, as I have said, Mr Krüger, there is this dissenting opinion. I'm correcting the second thing: Mr Krüger said that I was standing before a court with a transparency in order to influence a decision. – I haven’t been in court for a long time, and not even with a transparency to influence a decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18339	The next address is Mr Franz Morak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18371	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. As you know, there are numerous measures to reorganise broadcasting and telecommunications. This is, of course, also to a long standstill in this area. You may also have been participants in discussions where Austria enjoyed the reputation of being a "media-albania". The Federal Government has been dealing with these issues in great detail last year. In this context, I only recall the implementation of some EU directives, the Private Radio Act, the Television Directive, the Television Signals Directive and the Government template for the creation of an independent and non-dispute communication authority, which, to my regret, here in the House on 31 December, is here. Unfortunately, they did not receive the necessary two-thirds majority. It is, however, gratifying that this amendment by the Members of Parliament, in particular, substitutes this need for action and has been remedied by a good law. Thank you for this initiative. This ensures the existence of many private radios, i.e. media diversity in this country. As has been pointed out many times today, this measure has the highest time pressure because of the fact that on 19 June the Commission adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. In June, the approvals were cancelled. They have shown that development in this field of media and telecommunications is important to you and that it is not a playing field for party-political power games. I mean, you took a chance here. However, I also believe that because of the majority of relations in this House a greater opportunity has been denied, not only in the field of media location Austria, not only in the field of media competition in Austria. This independent media authority was also concerned with the telecommunications market in Austria and the whole telecommunications industry. Unfortunately, the discussion was dominated in advance – "sufferer" for telecommunications! – almost exclusively from word messages to the Media Commission, in the best case, by making an ORF discussion out of it, and in the worst case by saying who will appoint president, who will order who when, who ordered as. The fundamental tenor – and I regret it because my negotiation was not so designed and was not meant to be so – was always: What the opposition does is objective, and what the government parties do is dangerous to democracy. I would like to reject this view in all the necessary detail. The fact that the government template for the "KommAustria" would have been an essential contribution to legal certainty and legal protection, indeed to rapid legal protection in an industry that would have moved large volumes of investment, and thus of great scope for the Austrian economic location, for the communications location Austria, is self-evident. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I do not want to complain about shed milk here. The constitutional majority would have been necessary, but approval of this law, for whatever reason, has failed. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer meant that this would not be understandable for them. It's not quite understandable to me either. Karl-Heinz Grasser, our Minister of Finance, said today: Courage for innovation and creativity! – Honourable MP Cap! That's exactly what I wish you at the next round for the "KommAustria". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18428	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18449	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually very concerned about what is happening here today and what has happened in the Constitutional Committee. I would just like to make three comments on this and then challenge a matter with the Secretary of State. My first comment: They have acted as a coalition to overcome the old proportion and find new forms. I remember all of this happening in the Constitutional Committee. You referred to party negotiations, but you were not even prepared to repeat the proposals you made there to the public of the committee. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He did refer it to you, and you told him because...!]] They were not prepared to put this paper on the table by Mr. State Secretary. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Yes, yelling. Just keep it up! They also cried out with us in committee. That's how we're treated. [[Contradict with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact that you were not even willing to enter into negotiations on Parliament's committee in question was actually very bad. That you are not willing to discuss where a thing is to be discussed, where the attempt to do so is actually to do that, that was really worrying. They want to overcome the coalition of the nineties and, if I may remain in this comparison, they have fallen back into the style of the coalition agreements of the 1950s and 1960s, according to the motto: Make everything in silence and do not even talk about it in the light of the public or the committee responsible! When we have said, perhaps you can have our agreement, we want to negotiate this in the committee, because the Secretary of State has only fled to his castle theatre past and said: The message I hear well, I alone lack faith! – That was all he had to say. I'm very concerned about how this happened. If you, Mrs Fekter, have said that you have hoped all the time that we would still come to you, then I must say: If you want someone to get into a boat, you can't row so fast that the swimmer can never reach it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Nothing can change!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Or you have to swim faster!]] – Yes, you would like the opposition to swim after you, I know. Secondly, on the content: You have clearly demonstrated with your requests what your real intention is in this regard: the creation of a media authority dependent on you, which will bring the entire sector of electronic media under your control. Therefore, there are no real calls for proposals and no independence from the authority. Yes, it is even chosen a construction that allows the internationally recognized former Managing Director of Telekom Control GesmbH, who has provided for real competition in this sector, to be replaced by another person who is apparently accepted by the government. You want a law-enforcement authority, which is subject to the Federal Chancellor's instructions, and you do so. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, we want a no-wisdom!]] And at the end of the day, you even gave up one more by planning two managing directors: The Federal Chancellor chooses one, and Mrs. Forstinger chooses one. I do not believe that you will be able to go so far as to do what you would most likely like to do, namely to have your political secretary, Mr Popp and Mr Lukasek, in these functions, but that is possible even. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You would like the... from the SPÖ!]] Third comment: In this context, you, too, Mr. State Secretary, mention "Media Albanians" and accuse us of thinking only of the ORF. If in this context we have spoken of an inventory guarantee for the ORF, then not only the ORF, but because we continue to think about it because we think about our country and because we know that an Austrian voice must also remain in Europe. That's the real reason we're coming in for the ORF. Finally, Mr State Secretary, something that really saddens me. They have spoken of the great opportunities that have been rejected. I believe that you have now missed an opportunity in your speech, because the Committee was already so horrendous, so if the newspaper reports were to vote, what was happening after the committee, Mr President, you should now listen, would have been even worse. Karl Hohenlohe reports on this in the column of society in tomorrow's "Kurier" – I quote –: "At an event at the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Secretary of State said he was coming from the Constitutional Committee and was pleased to have people in front of him at last." Mr State Secretary! If that is true, you not only lack the children's room, but you also lack the understanding of democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18561	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18583	Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the Arbitrator! I went to the Federal Chancellery after that, and there was a very relaxed atmosphere. I've made a joke like you said. I immediately took him back there, at the event, with the expression of the greatest regret. I'm so sorry. Again: I took this back with the expression of the greatest regret, there, at the venue, just as I said. - Excuse me!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18610	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18631	See, Mr Schieder, that's great, I'd say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This has never happened to you!]] I am speaking as a speaker, but I would like to make a real correction. Mr Schieder claimed that I had called him in committee. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You could apologise for that too!]] – As far as I can remember, I didn't even mention the "KommAustria" – let alone, loud or quiet. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You don't personally! It's not all you, what committee is!]] Now to the bill we decide today. As has already been mentioned several times, I regret that it is only the second best solution. This is solely due to the opposition, in particular the SPÖ, because it has denied the constitutional majority for an independent, non-profit regulatory authority, which would have bundled both the broadcasting and the telecoms sectors. The SPÖ has just prevented the continuation of old patterns of thought from making an optimal reform to damage to the Austrian media and telecommunications industry. Let me briefly quote from a letter from the Trade Union of Telecommunications and Broadcasting Companies. This letter has been sent to the members of the Constitutional Committee and will shortly be the position of the local telecommunications industry on this issue – I quote: "When the government parties presented a draft to the COMMAUSTRIA regulatory authority in winter last year, the hope in our industry was that this would create a future-oriented regulation of the convergence market also in terms of competition. Undoubtedly, since its establishment in 1997, the Telecom-Control-Commission has made important decisions to promote competition, but it stressed reactive behaviour, but above all the lack of enforceability of its decisions to develop a competitive Austrian telecommunications market – due to a lack of effective instance. We therefore welcome "the agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP in the coalition paper at that time, as well as the political decision in the coalition pact between ÖVP and FPÖ to establish an independent expert regulator for the emerging sectors of the media and telecommunications industry, which we have recognised as an indispensable fact that the regulatory authority must continue to finance the same degree of the telecommunications economy." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! However, you did not hold fast to this, but by refusing the constitutional majority you have prevented this regulator from being launched. We urgently need a new media authority because the current broadcasting authority is unconstitutional under § 13 of the Regional Radio Act. We fulfil this constitutional task by creating the new "KommAustria", a law-enforced authority under the supervision of the Federal Chancellor. As mentioned above, the economy concerned is particularly interested in the speed of decision-making and in government competence in a very dynamic, high-technology area. We create the decision-making efficiency through a Federal Communications Senate as an independent appeal agency, designed as a non-orderly collegial authority with judicial intervention. We bundle the authority competence in the newly created "RTR GmbH", a radio and telecom regulatory authority. In the Constitutional Committee meetings dealing with the "CommAustria" – there were two: one was concerned with the original request for the creation of the independent authority, and the other with the law now under discussion – unfortunately, the opposition was less about the construction or the structure, rather about the question – that is also happening again today – who occupied which posts, who has what influence on the post-contracting, and why there are two managing directors. By the way, Mr Cap: Now you criticize two managing directors, but in the old model you have also criticized a president! So what do you want? Perhaps three, so that perhaps the proportion can be made with the SPÖ? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think this is a very transparent process. The opposition clearly states power policy on matters, but you failed, because we decide today something which is not so right for you at all. And, Mr Cap, even if Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer thinks it is not understandable to her, I must say that it is easy to see through for me. Your motto is: No consent to anything as long as the ORF law does not safeguard the influence of SPÖ. Watch out! The reform train is already running without you, and if you continue like this, the future train will go without you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18728	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18750	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In December 2000, Member States are recommended to set up transparent and independent broadcasting authorities, control authorities for the broadcasting sector, provided that they do not already exist. Community law also provides for independent regulatory authorities for the telecom sector, and Switzerland is already setting up a single independent Telecom and Broadcasting Authority. And even the British Social Democrats are in the process of bringing TV, the Internet and radio under the umbrella of a single independent media authority. There is also a need for action in Austria – we know – due to a knowledge of the Constitutional Court, as the temporary approvals for private radios expire at the end of June 2001. The government coalition wanted to create a single independent convergence authority with the "KommAustria" because it is no longer up-to-date to transfer regulatory tasks for broadcasting and telecoms to a wide variety of different authorities. We have spoken about this in the January part-session. The aim was to make a one-stop shop from the "KommAustria" – transparent, modern, innovative to simplify the administrative structures. The "CommAustria" should not be bound by any instructions and should be subject only to the control of Parliament. But this success seems not to be the intention of the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ of the government coalition. Mr. Dr. Cap! I don't want to say that I think this is small, but I'm like other previous speakers: I don't understand this procedure either. The government coalition wanted to meet the opposition, it made alternative proposals on Monday, but again a clear "Njet" came from Gusenbauer's Group. But even after this Monday blockade, the government coalition has constantly sought positive solutions. Result: "KommAustria light", as "The press" today calls the new proposal; "KommAustria light" is only set up for broadcasting – not for the Telekom sector – and at the Federal Chancellor's Office; and as the appeal authority of the independent Federal Communications Senate. Mr. Krüger has already talked about this. The five members can only decide if they are complete, with a two-thirds majority. That means in the clear text: Four of the five members must be present because people cannot share. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! The media authority's blockade policy fits exactly in the picture: They don't want a private radio or a private TV. The European Court of Human Rights has said years ago that the ORF monopoly violates Article 10 of the MRP, against freedom of expression, but you want to stick to the monopoly of the "red radio". The government coalition did everything this week after Monday to meet the opposition to an independent media authority. The government coalition has reached the highest level of independence with this proposal for the "KommAustria" which could be achieved without a constitutional guarantee of independence. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Show you that it is about solutions and not blockages of the good initiatives of the government coalition! Voices Today you are working with us on the "KommAustria" and you are actively working with us in the media area! It will be a lot to do in the near future – keyword: ORF-Novelle, keyword: Private TV – we all work together on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18845	The amendment tabled just now by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr Krüger and colleagues is sufficiently supported and is therefore voting. In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on the draft law in 507 of the supplements. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the proposed amendment. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr Krüger and Comrades. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – I notice: That is also the majority. [[Abg. Grabner: There are not even the clubmen there!]] [[Abg. Achatz: Where is Mr. Gusenbauer?]] I said that the debate was over. I notice: The draft law was also adopted at third reading. 8. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government paper (423 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the provision of consumer information in the marketing of new passenger cars (Personal Vehicle Consumer Information Act – Car VIG) (502 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 108/A (E) by Dr Eva Glawischnigand Comrades on the establishment of a member of the Federal Government who is of primary or exclusive environmental interest (504 of the supplements) 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 112/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moserund Comrades on measures to counter the progressive fragmentation of the division of competence in the field of consumer policy and protection (505 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18921	We shall now proceed to points 8 to 10 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. First of all, Mrs Mag. Sima. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18945	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My group welcomes the implementation of the EU's requirement for the passenger car consumer information law. We find it very positive that in the future there will also be a kind of pickerl for the car, on which precise consumer information, including with regard to CO2 emissions and so on, is recorded. On the other two requests, I would like to say that you know that at the beginning of the legislative period, we voted against a combination of the environment with the agricultural sector. This has been done for the simple reason, because we believe that agriculture is one of the main causes of many environmental problems, for example in the field of climate protection and groundwater, and that there are simply pre-programmed conflicts of interest when the two departments are put together. But we have already conducted this debate in great detail at the beginning of this legislative period. I would like to take this opportunity to address the environmental management law in the near future, which is not on the agenda today, because one could not agree on what is a positive sign among the coalition partners. Unfortunately, the proposal on the Environmental Management Act, which we have put on the table as a government template, is unfortunately a new attack on the environmental standards in Austria. The presentation really speaks a clear language, because it provides that there may be capacity expansions for several companies without corresponding official approvals, for example in the case of airport expansion, paper factories, chipboard plants and so on. I simply don't think that this can be the way forward for environmental protection in Austria. There should now be a revised version of this law, and I can only hope that it will not bring any disadvantages to environmental protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18988	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Immission Protection Act Air and the Measurement Concept Regulation implement six EU Directives. The present Immissions Protection Report, which was unanimously approved by the Environment Committee, reports on the implementation of the Immissions Protection Act, which was adopted on 1 January 2004. ==References====External links== Under this law, compliance with the limit values of air pollutants to air quality measuring stations is monitored. In principle, air quality has improved considerably in Austria, but there is a need for action specifically in transport, but also in the case of ozone. The report shows that there are significant reductions in sulphur dioxide in particular. For the period 1980 to 1998, the total emissions from 400 000 tonnes per year have been reduced to 46 000 tonnes per year, due to extensive industrial measures, but also to small consumers. Maintaining our good air quality is a challenge that affects all areas of life. Measures that have been smiled a decade ago are a matter of course today. I would like to mention the use of solar panels, wind turbines, the construction of low-energy buildings and energy-saving concepts. Air pollutants are a holistic problem. They can not only endanger the health of humans and animals, they enter our water in the form of acid rain, they may damage our forest, our soil, and also affect the quality and value of our cultural goods, such as at St. Stephen's Cathedral. Therefore, there must be many measures to give individual building blocks to keep our air clean. One of these is the new federal law, which informs car buyers about car emission data in origin. I expressly stress that there was unanimity across party borders in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on this requirement. This important building block for comprehensive climate protection and thus a right step towards achieving the Kyoto target provides that consumers receive information on the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of motor vehicles offered for sale in Austria. This will make it possible for car buyers to choose the most environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly vehicle for themselves. At least once a year, a free guide must be drawn up to list the ten most interesting, economical and environmentally friendly cars. In the future, this data must be listed in any written advertising material of the new vehicles. These measures are designed to raise awareness of the problem, but also encourage industry to take advantage of all possibilities in the course of technical progress to reduce fuel consumption and thus also CO2 emissions. However, particular attention must also be paid to helping renewable energy sources to break through in the motor vehicle sector, such as the operation of motor vehicles with vegetable oil engines. This is no longer a technological challenge, but these vehicles are already in practice. One of them, my own, stands in front of this house and works great! Although this creates CO2 in terms of operation, this CO2 is compensated for by the inclusion of the plants processed for this fuel during the growth of CO2. I regret that from a party-political point of view, my previous speaker, Mrs Sima, sees comprehensive environmental protection and agriculture as if it were something negative. If you, Mrs Colleague, saw Austrian environmental protection and Austrian agriculture in a holistic way, you would recognize that this is a European model. Our Federal Minister Molterer is one who is a champion in Europe in this field, in the field of the eco-social market economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I should therefore like to thank our Minister of State not only for this, but, Mr President, Tags: It is not the worst fruits on which the wasps sleep. Even if you had difficult days in the past, we wish you much strength for the future. Our support is certainly yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19075	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19097	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the summary agenda items 8 to 10, I can also report first of all on the Green Group's approval of a presentation. We will agree to the passenger car consumer information law. We believe that this is a good step to provide the consumer, the consumer, with additional information on emissions, on the pollutants of cars. However, this does not relieve the Federal Government and, in particular, the Environment Ministers of the obligation to implement a proper, financed climate protection programme in the next few years, as requested by the Commissioner for the Environment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Criticism, however, is that the lack of understanding of the government factions is that this combination of environmental and agricultural agents, which can also be seen as unique across Europe, is not only progress or is a unique precursor function of Austria, but is in fact extremely problematic. We also see ourselves massively confirmed by the current development in our criticism. It is clear that there must be independent control facilities. But it should also be clear that there is a need for an independent ministry to carry out these tasks, and that one also recognizes the polarity that exists between the environment and agriculture and dissolves in a proper form, and not automatically subordinates one interest to the other. This is also the direction of the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which also finds our great criticism. It is not only a matter of the Minister, it is also a political question if you want to break down the heart of the Ministry of the Environment, Section II, if you want to provide nature and landscape protection to the forestry, although you know precisely that the forestry of economic pressure on national parks and protected areas is given, and if the water section continues to work in two different areas – namely river tops and river bottoms. This division of departments finds our criticism. It is also well justified to lose a few critical words in the National Council. The third thing I would like to say in this context is: This approach, which has been taken in one body with the combination of agricultural and environmental policies in a single ministerial authority, seems to continue in another area which will not at all benefit from environmental control and the environmental implementation deficit, namely in the discussion on the abolition of the indirect federal administration, which has been initiated by a tripartite position paper by Mr Finanzminister. Under the term "saving", he wants to abolish the indirect federal administration in very environmentally relevant areas, thus losing political control to the legislator, the instance of a considerable reduction in legal protection, and the Federal Minister is no longer empowered to give direction, which does not reduce the control and enforcement deficit in the environmental field, but, on the contrary, greatly increases it. This will, of course, lead to very strong debates in the National Council – in order to do so, constitutional laws are necessary within the framework of the state reform – but the whole path that has now been taken with the merger, with the restructuring, with the debated abolition of the indirect federal administration, is, in our view, extremely problematic, highly critical. We will continue to present our criticism of this in a massive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19151	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19172	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Glawischnig has reserved most of her speech to the institution she has requested of a member of the Federal Government, who is acting primarily or exclusively on the environment. - All right. Every day, new horror reports about climate change hunt each other. I quote from the "Kronen-Zeitung" of the 20th century. February, which reports on UN experts as follows: "The climate change caused by pollution will lead to a century of hunger. Global warming will lead above all to storms, floods, droughts, glaciers will melt, agricultural production will decline, and drinking water will be scarcely warned by UN experts. No country can afford to ignore these changes." - Quote. If you take all of this together, then this is an apocalypse that is predicted to us – the signs are already there; global warming is evident to everyone – an apocalypse, which, however, our subsequent generations, our children and children need to be bathed out. It is therefore certainly necessary for an Environment Minister to have access to the essential parameters that affect the environment. Mrs Glawischnig and her comrades have consistently called for a Federal Environment Minister, who has all the competences of the Ministry of Environment – that is your request – and in addition to climate protection, species protection, plant protection, fertilizers, water protection, environmental plant law – that is a cross-sectional matter, as we all know – the environmental impact in genetic engineering, air pollution and co-decision in anti-atomic policy as well as sufficient budget resources. That's your request you made almost a year ago. You see, if you look at your own application and compare it with the given competences of the German Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry, which has now taken place after the decision of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Environment and the Water Industry, that your application is not only fulfilled, as you have formulated it, but that further additional competences in the Ministry of Mag. Molterers are united. I see it – and your colleague, Mrs Haidlmayr, expressed it very clearly in the course of another request, but I do not want to repeat these words here – that your request has in principle been dealt with. If you really proceed analytically after your request, this has not only been done, but has already been done successfully and successfully implemented. It is something that the new Federal Government has done and which has already achieved the corresponding successes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19221	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19242	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on Mr Glavischnig's request. It is about separating agricultural and environmental agents, and I say: Yes, we also believe that this separation would be a very important step, because the events, especially last year, showed that these two departments simply cannot be conducted together; too contradictory are the tasks that stand! At the start of the government last year, we Socialists pointed out that environmental policy would be eliminated when these agendas were brought together. And that is exactly what has happened, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For you, Minister of the State, environmental policy is – and this is what it looks like from the outside – rather an attachment. They act almost exclusively as a Minister of Agriculture with all the interests there are. This is not an accusation against you personally, but it is simply felt from outside. I will give you an example of where this is particularly evident: support policy in the field of agriculture. As we know, the majority of the funding is still going on in intensively managed farms, mainly in those areas where there are very massive problems with the overestimated nitrate levels in groundwater. 700 000 people – you must not forget that – do not have sufficient quality drinking water at their disposal. You're responsible for this, Minister of State! What are you doing about it? Where are the rehabilitation regulations, which are long overdue, so that appropriate measures can finally be taken? To get it to the point: Our groundwater is broken almost everywhere where the largest promotions flow. This is the inconsistency we are talking about here, and we will not accept that. That is why the demand for a separation of these agendas is very strong. Federal Minister! I mean, the two resorts should be kept separate again. They themselves are permanently in a massive conflict of interest, which is politically insoluble. You can't make this spat even if you're still trying. We will therefore support the request made by our green colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19281	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19303	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Much has already been said about consumer protection and consumer protection. The horror reports of recent weeks, mostly from abroad, have prompted me to re-examine the issue of consumer protection. I cannot share the allegations and fears expressed by my predecessors that the competence of consumer protection is at risk, and in practice this cannot be determined either. There are reasons and reasons for improving consumer protection, and I believe it is up to all of us to make improvements here together. Nevertheless, it is allowed to observe that much worse is currently being presented in Austria than it is in practice. This, of course, does not make the mood a positive one either. In the EU comparison, Austria is in the upper standard area, and this should remain so in the future. With regard to the complexity of consumer protection, the allocation of responsibility in practice is often difficult. This also shows the past that this is often a problem. So there are improvements. For these, this federal government stands, and it will close the loopholes of law, as the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has often put it in the room today. The fact is that crisis management works well. Federal Minister of State and Federal Minister Molterer work together very well, and it is not crucial for me where consumer protection is in detail, but how it is implemented in practice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] At a time when we certainly have some work to do and improve, it is no good to move back and forth skills – some want to settle all environmental interests in the Ministry of the Environment, others again in justice, others in agriculture. Instead, we must strive to develop consumer protection in line with scientific progress. Mutual accusations and suspicions help no one to optimise consumer protection, but only insecure our citizens. But our citizens want security. That is why we must do everything we can to better coordinate consumer protection between food control agencies, food control agencies and animal health services and producers. However, consumer protection is only possible if there are standards that are clearly declared and to which everyone confesses. This government will contribute to quality assurance and consumer protection with the creation of the Food Agency and take the growing importance of consumer protection seriously. I'd be allowed to find out: Consumer protection costs something, which is not at zero. We need money for tests, logistics, declaration, proof and much more. With all the objectives and demands, consumer safety is the most important thing, and this requires common action to create confidence between producers, processors, trade and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19361	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19382	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly not the simplest thing to talk about life issues this time before empty bank series. But you should always try to do the best out of the situation. So I'm trying a very simple dialogue with you, Minister. Good day! Again and again it is said – even my previous speaker said it – that it is about the confidence and the safety of consumers. Now, as a consumer speaker, I am faced with the fact that I have a contact person here, for example, because the Minister is responsible for radiation protection. This morning another contact was here, Mr. Main Minister, who is responsible for the food sector. Another Minister – Minister Böhmdorfer – is responsible for the areas of classical consumer protection, consumer rights in the narrower sense. Then there is a Minister Bartenstein, who is responsible for product labelling and pricing. Minister Molterer says: We need consumer confidence! – Minister! On Saturday 14 days ago – or was it a week ago? – you were in the radio show "In the Journal for a Guest" at noon. There you said: The company must decide what it buys, what quality it buys, what it decides for according to its value in the purchasing process. That's right, Minister. I think it is great if you say that society has to decide, but you, as a minister, who is your representative of society, have to be – on the one hand, because you are elected Members, on the other hand, because you are also a member of a government – the willful power, so to speak, to be the political instrument of society. [[Abg. Zweytick: But we live in a democracy – and not in communism!]] I do not see this bipolarity: here the society, as I am a minister, as a government. I must act as a minister and as a government as the expression of a social will! That's why I'm coming back to the subject: You should, after all, create a contact person for this social will to be safe and confident for consumers as well as instruments and a central body. I've said this several times: For me personally as a consumer speaker, it is always said to go through a course between four ministers. For example, I have to go to the budget in four chapters. I mean, I can handle it, but it's an extra effort. You, colleague Achatz, are looking at the area of agriculture, and you have everything together. Someone else looks at the area of financial policy – everything wonderful under one roof and subject. But the experts for consumer protection areas, which most people stand behind, have to browse, search around and have to run from one minister to another, and each time they get their hands back into their hands, because he says: There's the other one in charge! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You said something else!]] I'm coming back to your contact person, the company. Society needs orientation on the issue of quality. You yourself are also in favour of a Biodach seal. Now let's take a look at this: In principle, Mr Bartenstein is responsible for the seal of quality. That is why I propose, but to pool the areas of competence of consumer protection so that it can become effective. I know there's no one who likes to be away from his field, because it's equated with a renunciation of power, but we should do that, because – you know that now! – the power in the final effect is with the consumers. Unfortunately, they don't buy beef. I'm buying it now, because it's the best controlled meat at the moment. The power of consumers is the purchasing power. We now note how the purchasing power can partially become economically destructive due to miscontrol and panic. Now it would be necessary, through certain confidence signals – I say again: Good signals – restore trust. But I'm already doing a hard job: Who of the ministers does that? Really true: I'm allowed to run to four, I have to fold four off, and in the final effect it remains. Take, for example, the Bio-Gütedachverband or the Bio-Gütezegel or AMA-Seal. At the AMA seal, you're even easier because you're really responsible because the AMA is a creation of the Ministry of Agriculture. But at the Bio-Gütezegel one has to talk to the associations, then the question of the seal of quality, the question of financing, the question of advertising. Who pays for advertising? Is that what the organic farmers are doing? Normally, the AMA farmers or the farmers pay for the AMA advertising. I would just like to give you an example of how difficult it is to drive a clear line in this fragmented matter, which in turn can lead to confidence and in the final effect to safety. That is why I am now saying: It is up to society to exercise a political will. And that's your job, Minister! Don't say the company should decide, but sit down with your colleagues and say: We decide! We'll take control of this! To us consumer protection is really worth something, we really do nails with our heads now, whether it be with the seals, whether it be with the funding, whether it be with the advertising campaign, whether it be with the contact person of the product label or also with the clear achievability of the agency. Minister! I'd like to talk to you personally about that. Unfortunately, I have already exceeded my speaking time, I would have liked it to be installed here, but perhaps there is still some opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19435	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19457	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, who still endure here in the plenary room! The government template for a passenger car consumer information law is certainly a positive step from the point of view of consumers. This law implements a Directive of the EU and of the European Council, a Directive on the provision of consumer information on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions from cars. So far, there has been no such commitment in Austria. However, there were voluntary agreements between consumer representatives and trade that such consumption details were already made in advertising. This law now requires all new motor vehicles offered for sale and leasing power vehicles to be supplied with this consumer information. There is in the bill of this form. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] That's what it'll look like! And what exactly does the consumer see here? – He sees in which emission range the car he has taken into consideration. It is also particularly positive that there is something on this sheet on which consumers are aware, namely that the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of the motor vehicle are primarily responsible for global warming and greenhouse effect. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The sanctions are to blame, Mr Weinmeier!]] The aim of this law is to achieve a reduction in CO2 emissions by motor vehicles in Austria, because it is undisputed that road transport is one of the main drivers of greenhouse effect due to its high CO2 emissions. It is therefore a positive new legal regulation from an ecological point of view, and it is therefore also gratifying that there is a broad agreement here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19498	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19520	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! In this debate today, I was surprised by a statement by the Green Group, which today brought this urgent question: Mr Moser came down here and said that she likes beef because it is now the most and most controlled. So the whole urgent request was actually more or less just a farce and apparently only the attempt to insure the consumers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Watch out better, please!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed this debate today, one could in all cases sum up: All political groups want more or less uniform control in the future, which should be carried out by a ministry or by an authority. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: More or less yes!]] At least that was what the political groups wanted; it sounded to me that way. Ladies and gentlemen! The skills have so far been distributed in this area. Nevertheless, it must be said that in Austria, with this control by both Ministries, whether the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Agriculture, which controlled the resources used in agriculture, or the Ministry of Social Affairs responsible for health, which has decided the veterinary matters and carried out food control, we have been doing very well. We are currently the leading country in these questions – we can say that – not only within the EU, but perhaps even around the world. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, in future we want to pool these competences, which are currently distributed. That is why we want to install our own supervisory authority. I would ask all those who have asked for this more or less in their speeches today: Do you agree with the request of the government parties, and we will create an authority to guarantee the health and quality of our food and food in the future?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19579	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19600	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The broad consent to this passenger car consumer information law, I believe, is a good sign that there is a basic consensus in Austria in the environmental orientation. However, this does not mean that we do not have different access in principle. I think that, for example, the Environmental Information Act, environmental management law will be a subject that we will discuss intensively, because I see a completely different approach to this environmental milestone. Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of ressort restructuring: When I let the debate of the last few minutes and also those of the last weeks and months of revision take place, I actually come to the conclusion that the only right place constellation that should exist is a superministerium, in which everything is included. Then you don't have to look around in the budget book, then you don't have to go from one door to another, then you have everything in one. Five minutes later, the discussion would begin: How is it ordered about the questions of incompatibilities, four-eye principle and division of tasks? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe you'll turn this around thoughtfully. Is there not a very great opportunity in this constellation of agriculture, forestry, water and the environment? It is the first time that we have a place constellation in which all relevant environmental media are in one hand. If I read through your request, I have to say that we have supplemented this section with the tasks of forest, water and agriculture – in fact, a constellation that is exactly in line with the principle of sustainability, for which everyone is probably entering this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Just including agriculture is the problem!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it shows the European discussion that some of us are envied about this place constellation, and I am sure that sooner or later we will have to insist that Austria too has a pioneering role. Not bad, I would say, for the sustainable development of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19645	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 423 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee's report 502 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – I establish unanimity, and that is why it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – Again, I note the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 504 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and the request is therefore accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 505 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority again, and the request has been accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 505 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – I notice: This is the majority, and this is the resolution that has been adopted. (E 60.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 373/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, ing. Gerhard Fallentund comrades concerning a federal law with which the Old Burden Rehabilitation Act, BGBl. No. 299/1989, amended (506 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19743	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Oberhaidinger is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19770	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing an application for innovation in the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. I think to speak of "novelled" is to look at the text, to exaggerate something. It is essentially a matter of treating the animal meal, which must not be fed, in approved thermal installations. In principle – and I have already represented this in the Committee – there is no objection, however, that the requirement must be that suitable installations be approved for this purpose. In our opinion, plants such as the special waste combustion plants, such as the EBS, or waste combustion plants, are quite suitable and acceptable. We believe that, under certain conditions, coal-fired power plants would also be suitable for this. To this end, we have tabled an amendment which is essentially concerned only with the fact that the combustion of animal flour is subject to those conditions which are also intended for other waste in appropriate plants in accordance with the Air Recontent Regulation for boilers. The open questions that arise for us are not so much in the delivery, in the deposit of slag and ashes, Mr Federal Minister, but in our opinion the level of combustion temperature is a very essential problem. It is known that prions do not become harmless at about 700 degrees, but it is also about emissions which do not become free in the case of burning of coal, but very well in the production of animal flour. In addition – that's not so much a safety problem – we think it's happening for energetic reasons, as animal flour has a very high priority that the animal meal is burned in those plants, which ensure that the energy involved can be used accordingly via combined heat and power. These problems could be further eroded by our proposal. If I remember that since September of last year in Germany, as much as I know, there is already a comprehensive directive, which takes into account all that I have now mentioned, I must say: On the one hand, we are rather late, and on the other hand, I think that what is proposed here is only a question of questionable flicking. We tried to raise our concerns in the committee, however, it was necessary to note that neither before the committee meeting nor during the committee meeting really wanted to talk or negotiate with us about it. All those who have something to say in this committee by their majority have always tried to watch the clock. There have probably been some very urgent carnival service dates. But we can't do that. We'd have started in time. We took into account the Minister of State, who came from Brussels a little later. Unfortunately, this time problem should have fallen on our mind in the discussion or in the quality of the discussion. I am, therefore, so critical of this question, because I am very slow to gain the impression that a number of environmental laws that serve the protection of the Austrians are gradually, simply because it is possible by a simple majority, how a Swiss cheese is to be holes through. I think we should really defend the beginnings here in good time and speak a very clear language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19819	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19840	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Oberhaidinger, I can calm you down: We will not scan the environmental laws in Austria, but we will improve them together! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: That's what I'm going to look at!]] I'll invite you to participate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The revision of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act brings improvements which are very positive for the communities and for our environment and can therefore only be welcomed. The municipalities of our country are given legal certainty in terms of suspects by this change of law. The great advantage lies in the fact that the communities are able to report their suspicions without having to fear at once that the community budgets will also be cleared out with the possible necessary rooms of the suspects. But above all, this change of law guarantees reliable statements by the municipality's resulting reports about the actual risk of groundwater in the regions concerned, since all suspicious areas have to be reported, and not only those from which pollutants have already been reported to their environment. Step by step, these areas can then be investigated for suspicious moments and hazard levels. Afterwards they will be carted and, if necessary, they will only have to be cleared. This seems to me to be particularly important because it can achieve a sustainable improvement in the groundwater situation in some regions. The measure to be decided on today is intended to bring to the fore those areas on which there can only be an environmentally dangerous time bomb with an undetermined time limit. One of the main tasks of the local authorities, particularly the local authorities, is to secure resources in general and those of the environment in particular as a basis of life. Now also some words for depositing ash and slag: The ash and slags occurring during the combustion of coal can only be stored free of old-age loads if no mixing with other fuel materials takes place within the framework of caloric energy generation. However, in order to regulate the situation of animal body exploitation, it is necessary to ensure the possibility of thermal recovery. To this end, a change to the Old Load Rehabilitation Act is necessary. According to the decision-making of these novels, the residues of the caloric power plants may be exempt from the old load contribution even if up to 10 percent of non-hazardous waste is burned. We can thus create an incentive for the operators of coal-fired power plants to also burn animal flour in their plants. On the basis of the current situation, I would like to ask you all, ladies and gentlemen, to give your consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19897	Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19918	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present bill, the amendment of the old-age recovery law, cannot be accepted in this form for a very specific reason. I would like to explain this briefly now, but I would like to say something about animal meal burning as a whole. We have always criticised the fact that incinerators are exempt from old-load rehabilitation contributions. This is for us an objectively unwarranted improvement of waste management technology compared to others. From this fundamental criticism, we also reject this further, objectively unwarranted exception for combustion plants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the whole problem of animal meal burning in Austria: In the case of the combustions that have now been started in the 11 plants known to me – as many of them really are – we have not yet been informed by the Ministry of the Environment – there are a number of very complex regulatory issues as well as issues of environmental control and quality. The fact that there are environmental and health hazards is possible or not excluded by 100 percent, as the input always changes the output, so to speak, and each fuel causes other pollutants both in terms of quantity and in terms of quality. There has been no detailed authorisation procedure for these eleven plants which, as it were, can burn animal meal overnight. These were mainly experimental or test operation permits, one of which is carried out in one of the experiments, and we already know from some installations that there are massive problems in meeting the limit values. Of course, the neighbours also had no opposition possibilities, and that this trial operation should run even for the period of two years, is, in our opinion, too long. Critical voices from the waste management industry even go so far as to say – I quote –: "If Consenswers are otherwise accustomed to years of approval, and the number of opinions is not large enough – then the issue of NOX limit values is now no longer on the agenda. ... For example, no one really does anything about an abrasives. Now, all at once, if farmers need something." These are voices from the combustion industry, this opinion did not represent greens or environmentalists! In principle, I would like to say: We are, of course, for the disposal of animal meal and not for its feeding, but it must be ensured that there is no danger to the environment and to the apiculture. Waste water and slags must be carefully checked. Reports such as the claim made by the Environment Councillor Ursula Haubner from Upper Austria that even nitrogen emissions and dust pollution are falling by the firing of animal flour are, in my opinion, very counterproductive, because it is obviously not addressing the essential question of other pollutants such as dioxin, which is really a problem in the case of animal meal burning, which she probably did not examine. Landesratin Haubner has also announced that from the date of combustion at limit values and limit values, as well as the emission data, will be available on the Internet as a whole. – This is not the case, and so the impression arises that there is no problem at all in this respect, which, as I believe, is not the case. We must deal with this very carefully! To this day we do not know at what temperatures prions are really destroyed, how this affects slags and waste water and how other emission behaviours affect the environment and its neighbours. All of these are questions that are very responsible to be resolved, and it is not a matter of simply having to carry out the tests and test-operator's approvals over Nights are granted without serious problems of this very complex nature. We call on the Minister for the Environment and also on the investment operators to submit their opinions as quickly as possible to ensure that all open issues are clarified as quickly as possible and to carry out proper approval procedures. To this day, I do not know how animal meal is actually classified. Legally, this is completely open, and it cannot be described as domestic waste! Is it a not conventional fuel, or what is it really? From a legal point of view and from a protection point of view, what requirements are there to be met? So there are still a lot of questions open up, and I have been very disturbed by the fact that they have gone so far in the army and that eleven plants, including plants from the cement industry and coal power plants, are allowed to burn one to one animal meal, without any really well-founded permits being granted and conditions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19991	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20013	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a government party, we have in government responsibility not only the task of resolving all the issues without delay, but also the obligation to act in a timely manner. In this case, it is necessary to act in a timely manner. Because of the BSE crisis, we are facing a situation that we have not known so far. It is necessary to go new ways in feeding animals. The first important step was to impose a general feeding ban on animal meal in Austria. However, it is the fact that carcass and carcasses continue to be processed into animal meal, and it is also the fact that new, meaningful recovery possibilities need to be found for around 100 000 tonnes of animal flour per year. It is also true that the survival temperatures of BSE pathogens are approximately 600°C. Due to this knowledge and the state of the art, the thermal recovery must be sought. Domestic coal power plants could provide the missing capacity. However, coal power plants are currently exempt from the Alsag fee in the case of ash and slags in the case of combustion. Since animal meal is currently not free of charge, co-incineration of animal meal cannot benefit from this exception due to the existing legal situation. As waste disposal safety and autarchy are of national interest, sufficient domestic capacity should be provided. Therefore, these exceptions to the exemption should be slightly amended. It is not to be expected that there will be any significant change in the composition of the ashes, and also in terms of emissions we will be able to reduce the loads in this context. It should also be assumed that there is no change in the amount of contributions in the recovery of old loads. The aim is to ensure that animal meal, which has become waste, is thermally used and energy efficient, to provide sufficient capacity for domestic animal meal, to create the appropriate conditions for coal-fired power plants, to avoid and to reduce costs and to prevent environmental pollution. The following measures are proposed: Coal-fired power plants allow co-incineration of 10 per cent animal flour – 90 per cent are still coal that is heated – to free the resulting ashes from the Alsag fee. It was also planned to set a time limit until 2006. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has set itself the goal of starting a comprehensive innovation on the Waste Management Act in summer. Furthermore, the renovation of old loads is a very big challenge in the next few years. The situation is sobering: There are approximately 2 500 suspect areas in Austria, around 180 are listed in the old load atlas, and only 25 old loads are considered as secured or renovated. At present, waste which occurs in the course of securing or rehabilitating an old load registered in the old load is free of contributions. This does not apply to suspicious areas, and with this measure we are pursuing the objective of enabling the old load recovery in case of suspected areas to be free of charge in the sense of the old load contributions. We will also take action to ensure that there are mandatory procedural provisions for the rehabilitation of old loads. I believe that we have made a good decision with these measures, and I assume that you will give your approval to this proposal. However, we cannot understand the behaviour of the SPÖ and the Greens. I believe that in these two parties we want to push ahead with problems, but in the end we do not allow solutions to happen. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20064	Mr. Dr. Bauer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20085	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say to my previous speaker, Mr Fallent, that we will not vote in favour of this amendment, not because we would not recognise that it is quite positive to consider that the area of suspect areas is included and a regulation is found in this respect, but because we have quite legitimate other concerns – compliance with the limit value – in this context. Mr Ellmauer, in commenting on our colleague, Mr Oberhaidiger, said that there are trends towards a certain deterioration that is contrary to the environmental principle, that this is not the case. I believe that this trend is actually recognizable, for example in the field of EMAS. We have delayed this, and that is why this is not the subject of the negotiation, but also the clear intention to reduce the rights of neighbouring people so to speak. And even according to Alsag – which has already been referred to by one of my previous speakers – procedures, which usually take a very long time, suddenly do not take so long, for now there is simply the compulsion of immediate solutions. – I would like to say that there could be other immediate solutions, namely the combustion in plants that are present and where appropriate quality of combustion is ensured. We must note once again that this old-age recovery law is being renewed after a few months. The previous innovation was due to a money acquisition operation. The current revision is also necessary due to a particular situation and the next step is already announced, namely that a further innovation should be made in this first half of the year. A certain amount of pressure actually makes itself felt in this context. It is not really conceptually thought forth, but it is always brought in a novel from the day-to-day event, and that cannot really be in the interest of well thought-out environmental protection! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have nothing in itself against the combustion of coal-fired power plants if the condition of meeting the limit values is accordingly guaranteed. I do not think, however, that it is possible to create derogations and thus allow for opportunities which pose a certain threat to citizens. I therefore believe that we are quite opposed to this amendment with a certain degree of permission, and I also believe that we have the obligation to burn in those plants which correspond to the state of the art, and that is not guaranteed in this case. The question of the production of animal flour of 100 000 tonnes has also been referred to: What is going to happen in this short period of time? . I believe that the recovery of combustion plants in Austria can be carried out sufficiently, and therefore I do not understand that a regulation should be adopted, according to which there is a certain risk of combustion. In view of the limited level of knowledge on the dissemination of prion as The pathogen of BSE or the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease would really not be responsible! It has also been suggested by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that there is another form of exploitation, namely in the direction of esterification. Thank you, Minister of State! I mean, this is not in our interest, either, because, on the basis of the knowledge that pathogens can get into the air via the exhaust gases, it is not excluded that certain fears are true. Since there is a sufficient number of high-temperature combustion plants in Austria in an approved form, I believe that these hazardous wastes should be fed into these plants. Federal Minister! By the way, I ask you to: Soon to present an animal meal burning concept and to anchor it legally binding. In this regard, you have a certain amount of residue to your German colleagues, and I believe that in this context the same speed of action would be necessary in order to know the problem of animal meal satisfactorily solved in Austria too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20139	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20160	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few comments on this debate. First: I believe that there is a broad consensus on the fact that we are exempting the suspicions of old-load rehabilitation, so that we create an additional incentive for these areas to actually be included in the old-load atlas. This is positive because we have a better basis for optimising this strategy. Secondly, On the request of the SPÖ: Mr Oberhaidinger! Although I have said this in the Committee, I would nevertheless like to repeat it: The limit value you are talking about is intended, as you know, for waste combustion plants and not for coal-fired power plants and is therefore not one to one applicable or translatable for the latter. I also drew your attention to the fact that this request would hinder and block the implementation of the Combustion Directive on which we are working. Therefore, he is not targeting. Thirdly, On the animal meal question: Ladies and gentlemen! It is the state of the art and knowledge in Europe that the animal meal we no longer feed – and we assume that this feeding ban will be permanent – is to be disposed of by burning. This is state of knowledge and technology. In Austria, of course, the Incineration Regulation and the Waste Management Act apply. The latter provides for a sample operation and, of course, approval procedures and well-founded activity are also necessary for the sampling operation. For example, occupational physicians were used. We are working very hard to present such treatment principles in the context of the treatment principles also for animal meal. This is necessary and important. To clarify, I would like to say: It is not the exception to any standards we decide here, but only the exception of this component from the ALSAG contribution. The aim is for all animal meal to be treated equally during combustion. Mr Bauer! I spoke about it in the committee – and I believe that there is consensus about it – that we should look for alternatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer.]] It is known that animal meal cannot be esterified, but can be esterified maximum fat as you know. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He doesn't know!]] [[Abg. Auer: Now he knows!]] Of course, I assume that before making the relevant decisions, we will first examine all the scientific foundations. According to my modest technical knowledge, in the combustion engine in the combustion sector, temperatures are at least equal to the temperature level in waste combustion plants or coal power plants. [[Abg. Eder: Not at the beginning!]] I would ask you to take this into account in the assessment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20228	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 506 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the majority, and therefore the draft law is adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading of this draft law, agree to a sign on this point. – I notice: That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 73/A (E) by Mrs Evelin Lichtenberger and others on Austria's position on the transport protocol to the Alpine Convention (503 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20283	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20310	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! ==References====External links== On 10 October 2000 after a ten-year negotiating marathon with the signing of the long controversial transport protocol, an agreement was reached at last. For Austria, the abandonment of the construction of new high-level roads is of particular importance for cross-country traffic. This means that the Alpine states are abandoning new transit roads, and that means that by the decision of the ministers in Lucerne, the construction of the Alemagna motorway from Upper Italy has turned towards East Tyrol. After the signing of the transport protocol by the ministers of the Alpine countries, but also by decision and co-signatory by the EU, a second burner will probably no longer be possible! Federal Minister! It is right to say that Austria's negotiators have acquired great merits for this signed version with a well formulated text in the transport protocol. The transport protocol is thus also a success of Austria! It is to be thanked to all the negotiators, but also to the environmental associations and to the Alpenverein, because without their pressure this form of the Alpine Convention would not have come about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We Socialists welcome the positive conclusion of the Alpine Convention, in particular the agreement in the transport protocol. Now the next steps must be taken to revive this treaty. The first step must be to ratify the protocols and those of the Convention. Then their contents must be attacked and implemented. But it must not remain. It is important to further develop this positive approach and integrate other ecological principles, such as those of the transit agreement, which, as is seen in the judgment of the ECJ, is an exemplary contract for the protection of the population affected by transit. From an environmental point of view, it should therefore not be possible for Austria to be in agreement after the transit agreement expires in 2003 and to be overwhelmed by truck traffic to harm people and the environment. Negotiations in this respect must be conducted at European level by you as Minister of the Environment, together with the Ministry of Transport. The objective must be to further develop, improve and, above all, extend the transit contract from an Austrian point of view. What we need is long-term prospects for transport and the environment. The traffic protocol provides that the railway will be forced in the future and goods and people will be transported through the Alps on the rails. Federal Minister! I therefore ask you: How will you become active? What's going to be You're doing a new train transversal? What's going to be Do you undertake a sub-inntal railway or Brenner Base Tunnel solution? When will this Federal Government begin to negotiate? When will this Federal Government start moving and delaying these projects, which are also important in the sense of the Alpine Convention, and implement concrete projects? The frequency on the streets, for example in the Wipptal, is increasing every year to new records, but the railway is still too little recognized as an alternative to road traffic, transit. This trend has to be reversed! This is also repeatedly formulated as a target by the EU Commission, and the Alpine states have underlined this once again in Lucerne. That is why I ask you the question, Mr Federal Minister: What will the Austrian Federal Government do to achieve this objective? As a last point, I would like to repeat what I have already suggested in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: Austria, Tyrol and, more precisely, Innsbruck must become the seat of the Alpine Convention. Innsbruck is the natural center of the Alps and thus the seat of the Permanent Secretariat of the Alpine Convention. Innsbruck has already applied for this in July 1995, and all the conditions that Innsbruck has identified as the best suitable location for it: including the geographical location, the congress infrastructures, a correspondingly attractive locality – if it remains the same as the mayor of Innsbruck has offered – namely the Golden Dachl, but also the Innsbruck University, where one has been dealing with the Alps for years. Tirol and Innsbruck have the appropriate conditions. We invite you, Minister of State, and the Federal Government to work with us for this location! By the beginning of the International Year of Mountains in 2002, the traffic protocol and all other protocols of the Alpine Convention should be ratified and Innsbruck should be established as the seat of the International Secretariat. Austria, the Federal Government and you as Minister responsible are invited to achieve this objective! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20373	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20392	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The idea of an Alpine protection agreement dates back almost half a century. It was not until 1991 that the Alpine Convention, which touched the habitat of about 11 million people, was signed. It should take another ten years for Italy to sign as the last state. After more than ten years of negotiations which have often been threatened by failure, the traffic protocol at the heart of the Convention was finally concluded last October under the leadership of our Federal Minister Willi Molterer. – I thank our Federal Minister Willi Molterer for his great commitment on behalf of Tyrol! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Austria – and I am very proud of that – has played an outstanding role in the negotiations since the beginning. Austria has established itself as a pioneer in Alpine protection through numerous initiatives and has raised awareness of other states of the Alps and the European Union. The original draft transport protocol was indisputable for Austria. The following Austrian draft was crucial to the renegotiation of negotiations. The rethinking in Austria and especially in Tyrol has led to a gradual rethinking of the individual parties, and it is only recently that there have been voices in Italy that the Alemagna should be re-examined. In its consistent attitude against the continuation of the construction of the Alemagna, which is expressed by the sides of the Tyrolean Landtag, the Tyrolean municipalities and the East Tyrol Oberlands, Tyrol now receives a binding protection instrument that enables it to prevent such large projects. The Alemagna cannot and must not even be discussed in Tyrol. But what we need to discuss and implement is intelligent, nature-saving transport solutions in the Alpine region, in order to cope with the traffic flow of our guests who appreciate the Alpine region and look for relaxation, and to provide the local population with relief from the often kilometers long traffic jams. That means: It is necessary to create a smart transport connection of the Tyrolean remote to the Tyrolean Inntal and to implement it permanently. This four-party proposal gives me very much hope in this regard. Dear colleague Reheis! Dear colleague Lichtenberger! It should sometimes be possible to abandon polemics in this sensitive area and work together to find intelligent solutions for the people living in Tyrol for the children who will live there. I trust in your support in this sense!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20440	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20461	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The signing of the traffic protocol to the Alpine Convention by the Austrian Environment Minister in October last year was an important and positive step in the long history of the Treaty on the Protection of the Alps and in protecting the habitat of the people living there. It began in 1989, at the first Alpine conference in Berchtesgaden. At that time, the Environment Ministers of the Alpine countries gave the start. Then it took almost twelve years for all protocols to be signed in Lucerne in October 2000 by the Environment Ministers of the eight Alpine States after numerous meetings of committees, subcommittees and working groups in the sixth Alpine Conference. At this point, thanks must also be given to the Austrian nature conservation organisations, who made a very important contribution to the resumption in 1998 of the negotiations on the transport protocol which had come into being. It is gratifying that, as my previous speakers have said, there is an ecological end to this issue in Parliament and that the traffic protocol will be in agreement with all the groups in this House. This ecological etiquette shows the high understanding of all the parties represented here in the House for the need for protection of the Alpine region and the people living there. The aim of this motion for a resolution is to continue Austria's pioneering role on this issue, namely that the ratification of the Transport Protocol and, of course, all other protocols on this subject will be carried out by Austria as soon as possible, in any case before the International Year of Mountains 2002.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20502	Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20523	Ladies and gentlemen! The common four-party proposal for the Alpine Convention, and in particular for its implementation, cannot be assessed high enough, as I believe. Parliament has, by means of this request, decided not to underestimate the Alpine Convention and to pass it on to any treaty, but to schedule its implementation by means of a joint request and to award a corresponding mandate to the Minister responsible. – I think this is central! The history of the Alpine Convention is more than changeable. After a long period of time, in which Austria had probably taken a pioneering role, there were also some relapses: Several national leaders and various regional decision-makers from neighbouring countries have tried to place the interests of the representatives of the non-retardant transport of goods through the Alps and the concerns of the advocates of the construction of new roads on the need to protect a transport-sensitive area. Finally, after very long and very tough negotiations, a positive conclusion to the negotiations has nevertheless been reached. [[The speaker coughs strongly.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Do you want a cough sugar, Mrs. Colleague?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Drink water, then it's better!]] [[The speaker takes a swallow out of the water glass.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - It must happen to you! However, we do not have in mind that the Alpine Convention will also be implemented accordingly, because in this context it is very central to the issue of credibility, and we will, of course, be very serious about this in the discussion on the implementation of the transport protocol. There are wishes from the federal states to prove certain routes – for example in Vorarlberg – which have cross-country importance, with exceptions in order to be able to build them anyway. However, this would inevitably be the case – and I would like to warn here and now about the implementation procedures – that other projects will also be taken out of the drawers which we hope to finally send into the past with the Alpine Convention. I am speaking now of the Alemagna project. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] In this respect, Austria needs to maintain its credibility at the very heart of the issue by maintaining a consistent transport policy in favour of the sensitive Alpine region. In addition to the transport protocol, which no longer allows new projects to be put on the agenda, Austria must take and implement all the other protocols, whether on tourism or on mountain farming, seriously, and the work in this field begins only. When it comes to making it clear in the great central European countries that the Alps are not only entertainment park and holiday paradises and an obstacle to the Adriatic, but can play an ecological pioneering role, this can also mean that, starting from the protection of the Alps and from the observation of the sensitivity of this area, we are putting more emphasis on ecological developments in many areas of the economy. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Alpine region can become a leader, the Alpine region can have an example effect, and in the Alpine region sustainable projects are extremely important and necessary, and there can be an experimentation field for sustainable economies in Europe as a whole. The secretariat in Innsbruck would help us, and I hope that the Minister will be as actively involved in the implementation of this issue as he did in the conclusion of the Alpine Convention! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20602	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20623	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this Alpine Convention, with the signing of all protocols by the Contracting States, is a breakthrough for the Alps, which is one of the most sensitive regions of our continent. This conclusion, in this respect I share the assessment of many previous speakers, cannot be estimated high enough. I am proud that, as part of this conclusion, it has succeeded in taking the last obstacle to the traffic protocol, and I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this conclusion in recent years, because I do not like to adorn myself with foreign feathers. It's been a lot of people working on it. In particular, I should like to thank – or, as I believe, our thanks – the National Committee of the Alpine Convention, which forms a broad basis between NGOs, state agencies and bodies of the federal states and which has worked very efficiently and will continue to work in the future when it comes to implementation. Now it is about moving ahead with high-pressure ratification not only in Austria but in all the Contracting States. Austria has an obligation in this regard because we are the depositary of the contract texts. Of course, Austria will apply for the seat of the Alpine Convention General Secretariat. I have had several talks with Herwig van Staa, the mayor of Innsbruck, on this question. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have shown the verve today to support me in applying for this secretariat in Austria, I assume that you will apply the same verve when it comes to the enforcement of the relevant conditions. I already said it in committee: It is not only about the Golden Dachl, but also about the material willingness to compete, because we are not alone in this application. Ladies and gentlemen! Because this has been addressed, I say: Austria and the Austrian Federal Government represent a clear position on the transit question, and I believe that the recent decision of the ECJ strengthens this Austrian position in the transit question. It should continue to support us in this clear position! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20668	In the word, no one has been reported for this. Nor does the rapporteur mention a final word. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 503 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request from the Committee to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 503 of the Supplements. I would also ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this resolution show this with a similar sign. . The resolution adopted unanimously. (E 61.) That is why this item on the agenda has been completed. 13. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (424 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which the Notification Act 1991, the Volkställungsgesetz 1980 and the General Social Security Act are amended (501 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20727	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. The first speech is by Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20753	Mr President. Federal Minister! The present Announcement Act and the Volkstellungsgesetz create a central reporting register in which all persons resident in Austria, including homeless and prisoners, are recorded in a database. The brisance lies in the creation of a number of persons, a twelve-digit code, to which the respective social security number is also assigned for the persons in question in an equation table. This means that the Federal Minister of the Interior has all the data from the central reporting register, but also those from the social security system. The use of these data is now regulated by the data manager, the Federal Minister for the Interior, in a regulation to be adopted by him himself, with the Data Protection Council not having the opportunity to influence it. Of course, these data from the central reporting register can also be used for security police purposes, i.e. for grid detection or also for hidden investigation and link requests, with access to social security data of course also possible. All these measures under the Notification Act, but also under the Volkstallungsgesetz, are actually only used to achieve the unmistakability of state-owned datasets. For this bureaucratic objective, there is a risk that the so-called "glass person" will be made possible. High house! You, Mr Federal Minister, all in Austria want to be comprehensive and accurate and in detail informed. The danger of pooling data in the area of the Federal Ministry of the Interior is therefore present, because you now have access to not only the central reporting register or the social security data, but now there is a concentration of national central registers at the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, consisting of the criminal police file index, the criminal register, the security police information system, the danger file, the search for persons to be watched, the file for the central detection service evidence, the central arms register, the central vehicle registration, the central passevidence, the foreign information system and the asylum information system. – This is a wealth of data, coupled with the possibility of linking! The concerns that this is a major threat to people's privacy, but just wipe aside! High house! Former Interior Ministers, in their considerations, have designed the number of persons identified in such a way that their designation would not have been necessary in the creation of a central reporting register. Minister of the Interior! However, you have made this number of persons the key to the link, and this will of course be known to the public via the registration note and the passport – you have decided on Tuesday in the government a pass law novel, according to which this number of persons will also be recognizable. This means, in reality, that this number of persons is known about the registration note, which the landlord, a bank or insurance can see, and this will greatly encourage data abuse! High house! Of course, this concern is shared by others, because with a click on the mouse, a lot of information about the citizens can be retrieved, and there are no appropriate protective facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, you, Mr. Federal Minister, do not regard the protection of human rights as a matter of fact, because, through the scientific omission of the appointment of the Legal Protection Officer for the advanced investigation of the dangers of the 1. October 2000 until today – today you have ordered it – you have proved for five months how you deal with it! For five months observation and a hidden investigation were possible without appropriate legal protection. This means that investigations were possible and that people could not benefit from the protection by a legal representative. Now it is said that the executive would have been applied by decree to carry out the advanced risk investigation provisionally without the identification of personal data. Minister! This can only be a bad joke, because you know very well that there is no advanced risk research without observation and that any observation clearly also exists in the identification of personal data! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: This is horrible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens' involvement is facilitated and continued by the parallel action of censusing and optimizing the reporting register. [[Abg. Kiss: You don't believe that yourself!]] This parallel action also violates EU law, as the EU Data Protection Directive 1995/46 (EC) assumes, as you know, that data determined for statistical purposes should not be used for other purposes. [[Abg. Kiss: This is the biggest nonsense I've ever heard in this house! Who wrote this nonsense?]] Mr Kiss! Because I would like to say to you, Mr President, that you are just so strongly intervening. They have meant that whoever has nothing to hide has nothing to fear. [[Abg. Kiss: That's right!]] What, then, do we need data protection for? – You said that! That's your opinion! Mr Kiss! There is only one simple answer to this: Because every intervention in the privacy of people is an intervention into fundamental right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] This lawfulness, the necessity and proportionality of which must be clarified. Mr Kiss! You are not on the ground of the Constitution, take note! And because this threat is given, we reject these novels.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20837	The next speaker is Mr Loos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20858	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In front of me, the SPÖ security spokesman, Mr Parnigoni, spoke. [[Abg. Young: The new security spokesman!]] It must have been the new one. The way he behaved today allows the assessment to be made: That was the insecurity speaker, for he has always insecured the people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Yes! Bravo!]] I see only positive in what we have to decide today. We today decide on the current legislative innovation with two main priorities: The purpose is to improve reporting, in particular to avoid double-tracking, and to improve the central reporting register, which has not yet been implemented, but already provided for in the 1991 Reporting Act. Mr. Security Spokesman! Dear members of the SPÖ! We should have achieved this already in 1998. However, we have not achieved it under the Minister of Justice. As we do almost everything or – you can actually leave the word "almost" behind – we will do everything in this government coalition. We will, of course, put the central registration register on our feet! [[Bravo Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To the "glass people" some facts: It is necessary to distinguish between census and reporting law: In the census the questions are asked in the personal data sheet. This is prepared anonymously and contains neither name nor address. To make this clear: This serves purely statistical purposes! The amendment to the Reporting Act does not extend the reporting data, i.e. name, date of birth, citizenship, residence information, in principle. I'd like to tell you that too! All that is happening here today, you've already decided. [[Abg. Young: Say the Parnigoni again! Maybe he'll notice!]] The newly introduced registration number is solely for the unique identification of the computer data sets. Your application in the equation table – which has already been mentioned today – is only considered for statistical evaluations. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you guarantee that?]] These must be ordered by a law of their own or by regulation and by the consent of the Data Protection Council after its consultation. We must not assume that everyone who has to do with this census is from the outset a lawbreaker. I am claiming the opposite: that in this context very well-trained and decent people are at work, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I noticed in the Committee that, for example, the registration of the number of toothbrushes in a household was spoken about and what the counting organs can do. – If you read through the leaflet, you can see that the counting organs are not allowed to enter the apartment at all and that is exactly what they are not allowed to do. They are not allowed to count beds and will do the counting where that belongs. [[Abg. Parnigoni: So not in the apartment?]] Mr Parnigoni, please inform yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For information at all: They claimed in the Committee that the population was not informed accordingly. Mr President, you must have slept in the last two or three years. Test surveys have already been carried out in 1998 and 1999. It was also repeatedly pointed out that this is a parallel action, census, reporting and so on. In these preliminary surveys, tests were also carried out and people were asked what they thought of this census. Ten thousand people were already involved in this census in preparatory work. – I can tell you what these have said: More than 90 percent do not feel any of the questions asked as unpleasant. About two thirds are positive about the census. 87 percent have no objection to the planned parallel action that you have put here as negative. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No one knows yet!]] I'd like to say something to you: One has calculated what one's own counting organization would cost the communities. If this were not done in parallel, there would be an additional cost of 500 million schilling! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we do not have so much money at our disposal for such things! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You don't care about human rights!]] So I don't forget about it. I would like to thank, not those who are in constant uncertainty today, but those who have been working for years, in particular, for this census! In particular, I would like to thank Statistics Austria and Mr Hofrat Isambert, who is also here today. He has used a lot of information to ensure that there is no uncertainty among the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am confident that the Austrian population, similar to the previous censuses, will see and appreciate the importance of this statistical inventory for our state, for the countries, for the regions and for the municipalities, for the economy and for science and ultimately for all of us very well!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21024	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21046	Ladies and gentlemen! The present bill is characterised by a very gross attack against bourgeois freedoms and against "privacy" – that is, against privacy. [[Abg. Kiss: You are also such a dream dancer as the Parnigoni!]] He is also characterized by the fact that there is obviously a great interest among some people here in the house in bringing the "glass people" as far as possible and knowing as much as possible about people. – We are now at the argument: Whoever has nothing to hide, may not be afraid of transparency! Ladies and gentlemen! I now do not want to hold a section on dictatorial regimes, nor do I want to discuss how dictatorial regimes can misuse knowledge of people. I also do not want to assume that from the outset there is the evil intention of doing so and thus creating a front-end monitoring. But I suggest that you allow data to be collected and pooled through interfaces that can be used against innocent citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the main problem because we all cannot predict who will have the hand on these data in a few years. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Haider!]] We cannot predict whether our successors can deal responsibly with this knowledge of the most private data. This awareness here in the House lacks that the creation of conditions for the accumulation of huge amounts of data will be a major problem if responsible people could sit at some point on the switch levers where one has this data. That's a big problem! Ladies and gentlemen, keep it in mind! [[Abg. Kiss: Who are you talking about?]] It may come after you who have nothing good in mind. Once the data are there, when the data are connected together, they are useless. You have to keep that in mind if you decide this law today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is also an essential second point. – This was, as it were, also about the interfaces that can be produced between a central reporting register and other data volumes – as Parnigoni, the previous speaker, has already said. Of course, there are other problems in this context too. As always, I consider the question of religion to be a question that no longer conforms to the present conditions. The religious confession – and I know the concordat, we no longer need to discuss it – has nothing to do with the religious confession in a survey of the state from my point of view, but also nothing to look for. [[Abg. Kiss: This has been discussed at length!]] [[Abg. Boy: You know why that's inside?]] [[Abg. Kiss: Was discussed at length!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, on the question of main and secondary residences: The reintroduction of the headquarters is not only attacked by the Greens, but also by the Bar, which cannot necessarily be referred to as a green society, has serious concerns. There is comprehensive literature to this end, which is very questionable. Ladies and gentlemen! If you, as a municipal representative, are saying that we urgently need this because it is necessary for the financial negotiations between the Land and the Federal Government, we are going, please, sometime in new, reasonable and more adequate calculation keys for financial compensation, in smooth procedures. Then we solved the problem, but not by reintroducing or strengthening an old construction that is more than problematic to human rights. Finally, I would just like to mention a human rights expert like Professor Ermacora, who makes this clear: If the whole of America does not comply with a registration law, it will probably be possible in Austria. [[Abg. Young: Have you ever looked at how to look in America...?]] We reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21181	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Parnigoni, for many years now, we have been debating these issues on which we have reached our decision, even at times when your party was in government responsibility. The difference today is only that this government finally implements and realizes these issues. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Lichtenberger! Their fears that innocent citizens could be in danger are simply unfounded. The religious confession has no significance at all in today's social policy. It stands inside because we are obliged to the Holy See via the Concordat – you have recognized it correctly. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this amendment is to link two projects: to modernise the notification administration on the one hand and to carry out the census provided for by the Federal Constitution on the other. The use of the possibilities of automation-supported data processing in the field of the central reporting register and the elimination of double tracking of the register management is intended to reduce the administrative burden in reporting and, on the other hand, to facilitate all future censuses. You can't really have anything against it! The amendment establishes the basis for the Central Reporting Register, according to which all people who are permanently resident in Austria are recorded in a database. In the future, data will also be processed homeless. The register will cover all residents of a person in Austria and thus also facilitate the cleaning of several main residences. A central registration number shall be introduced to ensure the unmistakability of the people included in the register. Of course, the authorities concerned should be given a comprehensive and easy-to-use access to this database. This should also lead to a reduction in the administration. By means of a parallel legally anchored action, the reporting data will be adjusted on the occasion of the implementation of the census in 2001. The aim of this action is to achieve the greatest possible identity between reporting data and census data. In order to eliminate incorrect data detected in the course of this action, a simple procedure is provided. With the realization of these adjusted central reporting data, population censuses will be supported in the future and will be much easier to implement. Another objective of this novel is the complete transfer of the reporting authority's competence to the mayor. So far, the communities in whose explosives are federal police directors have also held lists of the people reported in these communities. The aim of the amendment is to eliminate these double-tracks and to appoint mayors in all communities as reporting authorities. Of course – we are all aware of this – this data merge and this data fill also requires special data protection. In our view, however, this is also guaranteed by the strict laws in our Republic. Of course, when the census data are submitted, the fundamental right of the individual citizen will remain. This is a matter of course today! Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, this innovation contributes to the strengthening of the rule of law and legal certainty, but also to administrative simplification. We liberals agree with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21262	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21284	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With this amendment to the Announcement Act and the Population Counting Act, an urgent need for greater legal certainty, greater transparency and greater clarity are created for citizens and authorities. That is the purpose and purpose of this law. Thanks to the Data Protection Advisory Board, with its support and through the joint work with it, we have been able to fully help the data protection law idea in these novels to break through. The transfer of the reporting powers of the Federal Police Directorates to the mayors of the cities and thus to the Magistrate will bring about a adjustment of the double tracking of electoral evidence and reporting evidence in 14 To bring cities with them and in addition to that, to concentrate on the core tasks of our home, namely to organize the best possible service security. We will thus obtain about 250 sites for more safety-related areas. However, we are not least thinking of canceling any fixed service conditions, as has been said in any gloss today, but we need staff to have sufficient personnel for the safety of the population in the security-related external services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With this law, we will establish the Central Reporting Register, which has been overdue for years, and we will allow a parallel action of the 2001 census with the Central Reporting Register. This will adjust the data base and allow registers in the future. By establishing a declaration of residence to verify the accuracy of the reporting register and on the occasion of censuses, we can continue in this endeavour. I would particularly like to thank you, Mr Hofrat, for your excellent cooperation and cooperation. [[towards gallery]] I would also like our computer department, Dr Schwab, and the legal system, Mr Mag. Grosinger, thank you for the long, long-term completion of this law, so that we could present it to you for decision-making and discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21329	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21350	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists cannot accept this government proposal for a number of reasons which my colleague Parnigoni has already mentioned. I am personally disturbed by the Abs. 5 in § 16a, in which it reads – I quote –: "Aside from those in Abs. 4 cases mentioned above are authorized by the Federal Minister for the Interior, certain persons within the framework of § 16 para. 1 on application to open a data processing authorisation by means of data traffic to the data processed in the central reporting register for which there is no block." Ladies and gentlemen! That's just too little precision for me. [[Abg. Kiss: When Karl Schlögl was Minister of the Interior, you were the sausage! But at Interior Minister Strasser...!]] In my opinion and in my group's opinion, it would have been necessary to define the rightful persons in the law precisely and not to be included in the regulation. [[Abg. Kiss: The passage was completely identical three years ago...!]] I am certainly not alone with my opinion that not every civil servant of social security, the municipal association, should be able to search for local authorities in these data, because they simply do not concern him. Above all, the connection with the social security number is a little secret to me. The expression of "glass people" is not as polemic as it is always claimed, Mr Loos! As far as the planned issue of notification information for the entire federal territory is concerned, it can be noted from the explanations that there are also electronic telephone books and that they are also accessible to everyone, as everyone knows that there are also a number of telephone participants who have a secret number and who are not interested in the fact that everyone knows their number and can call them on every occasion. [[Abg. Kiss: We already understood!]] A remarkable opinion is given in the review of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery. It is not exactly harmless when it is stated that this draft law disregards European law because it clearly states that confidential data intended for statistics must not be used for the administration. This is all the more remarkable as the ÖVP constantly points to this European law and calls itself "European Party" – probably only when it is pleasant and fits into the business. From my point of view, the introduction of the ZMR number on the registration certificate – that is already true – should also be completely rejected. I know how many people can access this registration and how easy it is to get. Everyone who reads it now knows the ZMR number. I don't like that either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists therefore believe that this draft law represents a certain attack on the privacy of citizens. That is why we reject him with good reason. I would like to turn to Mr Loos at the end of the day, because he said to Mr Parnigoni that he had been asleep for two years. Mr Loos! Mr Parnigoni has already worked here at a time when you only knew this House from the outside. I can tell you he did a good job. If a Member came back to this House, it would actually be nice and polite, he would contain such statements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21434	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21455	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Before: Whoever wants to commit an abuse will always commit it, and there will be no law that can prevent these people from being abused. One thing has to be clear to us: We live in a democracy and not in a dictatorship; I add that because today is always the talk of being stifled and people being persecuted. This change of law, which is on the table today, is a good, reasonable and forward-looking thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is today a change of law to the Announcement Act, the Volkstallungsgesetz and the General Social Security Act for decision-making, a change of law, which has been prepared in close cooperation with the members of the Data Protection Council and has also found the consent of the Data Protection Council. What's this about? – The current change in the law makes it possible to create a central reporting register – for years called for, for many years, always pushed from the previous ministers to the long bank. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: "Too many" is right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: "Too many" is the right word!]] This innovation significantly improves the reporting and reporting laws. There will be no more double tracks. This amendment will also provide the basis for making future censuses easier, faster and more cost-effective. In addition, the Notification Act provides for the first time a scheme for the homeless. This is human right, socially important and constitutes a major administrative simplification for authorities and their auxiliary bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This new law brings substantial and significant benefits to citizens, to the state and, above all, to the communities. It creates legal certainty, it creates administrative simplification, and it prevents the previously dual tracks. It saves costs of several hundred million schilling. It creates transparency and facilitates work for the state and its services. Despite these positive aspects and despite the consent of the Data Protection Council, this modern, cost-saving bill is criticized by the opposition. I say, without letup the criticism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] She speaks of "glass people", of an "attack to privacy", and in the Committee, MP Pilz spoke of a "violence of fundamental rights" in the event that the creed appears in the reporting register. – If you are ashamed of your religion, don’t write it down! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It's not a shame at all! That's not an argument!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Of course, a registration register is a collection of data – including personal data – from people in our country. But this is the case now and will continue to be so in the future. Again: Whoever wants to commit abuse, he will also commit it. However, your unrelenting criticism also shows that you have no idea of community work in connection with reporting outside the area. Those who work in the municipal administration – whether it be the mayors or the staff there – are really very happy about this novel, and they confirm that the reporting system is currently organised differently, often difficult to understand and often not verifiable. Minister! We are very glad that this long overdue legislative novel has now been launched by you. For years, this legislative novel should actually be on track so that a central reporting register can finally be installed. At the time, the ministers of the Interior pushed these new laws, like so many others, to the long bank. Ladies and gentlemen! This new law is a prerequisite for us to meet the requirements of a modern state of service. This law is to be welcomed, with all its content, and would deserve the approval of all the parties here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21531	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21553	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Because my predecessor meant that this bill would deserve the approval of all parties, I have to make two or three comments here. Mr President, it is also not blue-eyeed in the Austrian municipalities. There are a number of points to be mentioned here; unfortunately, they can no longer be mentioned in detail for time-term reasons, but the arguments have already been exchanged in the Committee. Federal Minister! I understand that people want to be freed for other activities. That's what we're all aware of. I am also aware that the costs are transferred from the Federal Government to the local authorities. I also know the counter-argument because we have already discussed all of this. Ladies and gentlemen! We also know, however, that the objections of the city government have not been taken into account. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have not made any comments here on a very important area, just because they may have come up with unimportant arguments. I also believe that the concerns of the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service have a clear language. Ladies and gentlemen! That's to be questioned. In a democracy it is very important to discuss this too. It can be considered that a number in the central reporting register, which is anonymized, for the first time does not allow it to immediately draw conclusions on all other data, especially the social security number. But if this number will be on the registration note or later on on on the forms – the new passport has already been reviewed – then we all have to think about where, when we go to offices, we have to take a registration note and where this number will be located everywhere. Anyone who deals with computer knows how to access the underlying data at any time. That is why I would ask you not to say so easily that all this is not a problem. We are entitled to at least discuss these questions. We have already received the arguments from the government parties and the Federal Minister on the Committee. Although the concerns about this proposal, which we have already heard, have been partially eliminated, which the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service has put forward, this proposal, as Mr Parnigoni has already said, is not currently EU-compliant. We can now discuss it as much as we want, it is currently so. I believe that we cannot easily give our consent to such questions, where at least some have not been answered. We Social Democrats will not give them either. I would like to conclude by saying: Mr Loos – unfortunately he is not here now; yet, there I see him, apologise! – has correctly said in the Committee that this parallel action, of course, also raises the question of the residence of the head office. Federal Minister! I don't want to talk about the fact that research can be done, I don't mean, but I just want to do a replica, and that's my opinion. The financial questions for the communities should actually be solved where they belong, namely in the FAG. It doesn't help us if we keep linking them to these laws. We all know that we cannot realize them in this area. On the basis of these open questions, we cannot give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21604	The next speaker is Mr Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21625	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This excitement is completely incomprehensible. This chicken farm atmosphere, which is produced here by Mr. SPÖ's security spokesman, is an artificial and a pure... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Make yourself a bit of a start!]] Watch out! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Use expressions that are okay!]] It is an artificial and a purely party-political one. [[Abg. Schieder: "Hühnerhof" is not all right!]] It's okay. Mr Schieder, I would recommend that you listen so that you can come here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Speak differently!]] Mrs Mertel, it is also the same with you: You'll always be right there with the word messages! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: A little bit of behavior!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The situation is perfectly clear: We have a census this year – and you should know this too, because there is a census law – and we currently have a double track record in reporting affairs, especially in the cities. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Colleague! Your level is very deep!]] At the moment, we also have the problem that people keep reporting with their head office several times, which is known to be relatively important for financial compensation. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Deeper, Mr. Colleague, much deeper!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In view of this, it is perfectly logical and clear that something has to happen, namely, nothing but the creation of a central reporting register, the elimination of bureaucratic double-tracks and, incidentally, not insignificant! – the savings of 166 million schilling annually. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Lower location!]] Finally, the Hickhack, the round-and-the-mortem of citizens, has been removed because of the financial compensation. There it is Mr. Häupl, the mayor of Vienna, who makes this quite remarkable: Because he wants to receive as many students as possible as possible with Vienna as his main residence, he uses the complaint procedure as a legally authorized peak and lets him inquire deeply into the privacy. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's the way it is! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Stop! Your expressions are really bad!]] Mr Commissioner, now on the subject of homeless people. – I know the Vienna election makes you very nervous. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You have no behavior!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Lower!]] Please calm down, it doesn't make any sense anyway! [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, they don't make me nervous!]] The choice will go badly with you and without you for the SPÖ, but please! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] ==References== We'll see that on March. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the subject of homeless people [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's why you can act!]] The homelessness – and this is a very important issue – is a very depressing, sad circumstance, ladies and gentlemen, where you have to remedy. [[Abg. Schieder: "Hühnerhof"! He wants to do fine and has no behavior!]] I hope that you, too, feel that this homelessness is definitely a very depressing circumstance. But the law is intended to help the homeless. [[Abg. Schieder: A construction worker has more behavior than he does!]] The current evil situation is to be abolished by § 19. I hope you all have looked closely at the law on decision-making here. There is, of course, the caritas in conjunction with the greens. Of the greens, almost no one is there, they've already disbanded; I don't know what's going on now. Press releases deliver kilowise, but when it comes to something they are against, they are not to be found. – At least now, colleague Glavischnig is coming. The Caritas once again, in association with the Greens, was very excited, but that was to be expected. [[Abg. Arbitrators: "Come therefore"!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: "Come therefore" he says!]] And Mr Pilz – he's not there, I would have liked to tell him directly – immediately sees an overall government offensive to know as much as possible about people. [[Abg. Arbitrators: "Come therefore"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No, no!]] This is the very Lord Pilz, who, after old Marxist resistance ceilings, calls for "imaginative" filling up questionnaires in the censuses! What Mr Pilz is doing here is nothing but a smooth call to the lawbreak. Because we're just in the face of military resistance, but my colleague Petrovic is unfortunately not there; they've all been covered. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That would be the instigation of a crime!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Not with you!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] – Mr Petrovic shot the bird because we are talking about democracy: Mr Petrovic... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Completely right! Not only that she was in Berlin, where it was about devoting to Austria; not only that she was at the violent demonstrations at the Wiener Stadthalle; no, she was of course also at the so-called opera ball demonstration, my dear ladies and gentlemen, where left chaoten-sindel has made discs...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21976	Please, Mr. Deputies! [[Abg. Leikam: It's unheard of!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's it!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Shame!]] [[Call the SPÖ: How do you talk?]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Admit yourself to this!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Mainoni! First of all, the head of the state of Vienna is not a peak. And we don't need the expression "chaotensindel" either. - Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22058	I take back the expression "chaot spirit" with regrets; according to the political correctness, I call the whole "autonomous". That may not provoke the reds to anger, but we know who's meant to do it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They hit window panes, wrecked shops, lit containers, and so on and so on. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... therefore come and act like in the chicken stall!]] Mrs Petrovic, who is mainly a professional demonstrator here in Parliament, was again present at these demonstrations of violence. [[Call the SPÖ: What you're doing!]] She was back there, ladies and gentlemen. - But let's go back to the law! Pilz and the Social Democrats are once again at risk of data protection. I expressly say: Data protection is a very, very important instrument that is preserved. – You are again at risk of data protection; I have only the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that the SPÖ and the Greens, in particular, want to make the data protection of the offender more often than not. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: A pathetic appearance!]] Yes, it is! It is indeed grotesk, if the police are hardly informed by the Social Office when persecuting criminals, or, as you have heard, Mr. Parnigoni says in committee, he is very concerned that his health care stay will become known at the Ministry of the Interior, or Mr. Parnigoni is hiding on the statement: Mayor and the Minister of the Interior would be a "hazardous mixture". – What is it?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kiss: That was a committee quote!]] Tell me, what are these statements?- Oh, my God! It's pretty grotesque indeed! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let's get back to the law! It is a sensible, efficient novel, which saves costs and eliminates double conductivity. Of course we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22160	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. – I would ask you to comply with the provisions of the GMO. [[Abg. Edler: Khol is silent! Shut up, Khol's silent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: (in the direction of the Freeman) Last-class to sad!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22211	In a remarkably last-class speech, Mr Vorsprecher made a statement to Mrs Petrovic, claiming that Mrs Petrovic had been at the operal ball with the violent demonstrators. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What is being corrected here, please?]] [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But this is not a correction!]] [[Abg. Boy: Please, where have you been?]] I'm putting it right: Mr Petrovic was on the way in mediation on the request of the executive. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Gentlemen, if you find this ridiculous, then I really can only regret you because of your lack of wide view! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: As a "mediator" she was there!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22301	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22336	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It might be appropriate to stop the heated debate a little. [[Abg. Kiss: (in the direction of Green) What did the mediation take place?]] Mr President, it is already late, but it would be nice if you would listen to me a little! After the speech by my previous speaker, I would like to show you some sympathy. Look She's here! [[The speaker has a envelope with the title "Main residence? Neulengbach – what else!" to the height.]] We have a very friendly, nice thing here: "Main residence? Neulengbach – what else!" This is my home community, and I'm also proud of it. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Super!]] The 2001 census will be applied there. It's being advertised there... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why does the Häupl force all Burgenländer to become Wiener?]] It is already appropriate to show this folder on the subject, because sympathy and promotions are particularly important for us, for communities that have to advertise around each individual head. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes!]] It's about money for the municipalities, the money that was partially taken away from them. Community finances are a difficult thing. [[Call to the liberals:That you were in the government – is that right?]] We are missing income from the drinking tax. The financial compensation negotiations between the Federal Government and the Länder have also taken place in such a way that there is now a great deal of burden on the communities. It is already understandable if you advertise every single head, because every single head brings a lot of money to the communities. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes! What do you say to the head then?]] This census... – Mr colleague! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Then what do you say to the head, how he forces people to go to Vienna...?]] [[Abg. Kiss: Well, what's now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I repeat on my previous speaker once again, because this too is something that should not remain unmentioned. Now we've calmed down again, now we can listen again. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why? There you can talk, too!]] My previous speaker said that the SPÖ was so upset about the notification law. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That is the essence of Parliament that one also speaks to intermediate calls!]] Before I forget, I have to tell him why we're holding back from the thing with the homeless. This is precisely discrimination, Mr Mainoni, because they need a head office confirmation, while everyone else goes with a report. That is why they are immediately recognizable, and that is discrimination, Mr Mainoni. [[Abg. Kiss: And what would you suggest?]] You obviously didn't understand that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: And what is the case now?]] But in connection with the census personal data are also collected, personal things are asked. [[Abg. Kiss: What would you suggest?]] [[Abg. Young: What have you been doing for decades?]] We from SPÖ expressly reject the fact that, together with the 2001 census, a global coverage is also carried out. I do not want to repeat the legal provisions again, you have already received them twice today. [[Abg. Young: Maybe you could make us a solution proposal?]] It is worrying if you do not inform the citizens accordingly. This is really important, and it is therefore important to draw attention to the fact that in this case data can also be passed on to municipalities. [[Abg. Kiss: In Neulengbach...!]] You know what's going on in the country. You know each other very well, and when nice, friendly parish staff come to a household and things like club membership are questioned, that's something you don't shut down. An example from Tyrol – how will this go on?, Mr. Khol certainly has a very special opinion on this, because the citizen society is already being tested there: One considers awarding guidelines at the municipal apartments, and there it becomes exciting: In these procurement directives, it is considered whether or not activities in associations should be rewarded, particularly excellent engagement in associations by favouring the award of municipal apartments. This is really, if you think about it exactly – and therefore also the media excitement about it – simply a cowardice to all those who might need a community apartment much more urgently. It is unfair that perhaps then a single mother does not get to this advantage, but a sniper does get a community apartment. That's really thoughtful! [[Call to the ÖVP: What does this have to do with the census?]] Once again to the reporting system: The link strategies that are being driven here, and the link jungle are actually the thoughtful. I think that folklore and reporting are running parallelly, and also the novelle to the Reporting Act, the Central Reporting Register in connection with the data of the social insurance companies I consider extremely worrying. In this sense, the "glass man" – which we do not want – is soon finished. Thanks to all these links, the people in Austria can feel illustrious, intimidated, monitored in the future. That's not what we're going to do. Big Brother is watching you" is now in Austrian: "Black and Blue are watching you."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22606	I call Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22641	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal has already been debated about the current government proposal. The Federal Act amending the Notification Act 1991 certainly brings great benefits in the administration. It is not only that the computer, which is going on and going on in our age, and that the available possibilities of technology are being used better, that change also leads to the use of savings potentials that would have been possible for a long time. The establishment of the Central Reporting Register enables estimated savings of 166 million schilling annually. It is quite a shame that this potential has not been used before. Already in the Novelle Report Act in 1991, a central reporting register was provided, but a realization, as with so many other things, was not achieved by the Ministry of the Interior under socialist responsibility. But the new government manages – and this is also its trademark – to quickly implement reforms and to save where it hurts the least, namely in the case of double-tracks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to point out once again that in 14 cities in Austria the double track is abolished. In fact, there were the magistrates responsible for the electoral register and the Federal Police Directorates for Reporting. The sole competence of the mayor is now established. Let me also briefly say a thank you to the employees of the statistics Austria, who have succeeded in formulating, limiting and combining the questions of the public survey in such a way that, instead of the 60 questions envisaged, only 20 more can be answered, which will reduce the interview time to an acceptable extent in the case of the population survey, without worsening the quality of the results. On the basis of the statements made by my predecessor, a comment on the amendments made to Sections 1 and 19 in Article 1: It is now possible to register the homeless, for which no notification has been accepted so far, because no main residence was recoverable. This has positive effects on all sides, as one no longer leaves this group in the lawless space. The proposed changes make the law more civil-friendly and take into account the idea of service to citizens. We thus achieve greater transparency with less effort – for the benefit of citizens – and thus a responsible handling of the tax money.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22695	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22716	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Notification Act is also part of the administrative simplification implemented step by step by step by step by step of the new Federal Government. The entire reporting authority will now be transferred to the mayor. So far, it has been the case that in municipalities in whose explosives Federal Police Directorates exist, the lists were run by both the municipalities and the Federal Police Departments. These double-tracks will once and for all belong to the past. This is an essential step towards streamlining administration and thus reducing costs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the style of the new Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! Interesting are the statements of left-wing opposition politicians. The Social Democratic Member Parnigoni was both located in the Committee on the Interior on 27 November. February of this year, as well as today, in the plenary, tendencies towards "glaser man" and a "disproportionate form of research". Mr Parnigoni, I can calm you down: This draft law was prepared in close cooperation with the Data Protection Council. This has already been said to you by the Federal Minister for the Interior. So do not draw the devil to the wall, Mr Parnigoni! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! From the devil to religion: The left-wing green Member Dr. Pilz is worried about the legal consequences if the religious confession is not stated. [[Abg. Oils: is given!]] His concerns were as scattered as they were. [[Abg. Oils: Reverse!]] Mr Oellinger, the non-fulfillment of this heading is not punishable because the creed is not included in the Central Reporting Register. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That would be even more beautiful!]] It is probably a late fascism when the former member of the revolutionary Marxists Dr. Pilz is concerned about the religious confession. He won't begin to pray to our father every day with folded hands? [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, it is much more likely that he will prefer the deep-red Marxist sky!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22787	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22808	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really couldn't imagine that this issue, census 2001 and the establishment of a reporting register, is creating emotions like it was today. [[Abg. Kiss: With the reds!]] I know, at the reds, at the SPÖ, and at the greens. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It was an orderly debate up to Mainoni!]] We have held so many discussions on the implementation of this census, on the establishment of a personal identification mark and a registration register that all of this is not credible. I really want to say: "Attacks against bourgeois liberties", "glass man", "irresponsible people sit on the levers" – it's an immeasurable thing to say and put something like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This please those people who have been sitting in the Austrian Central Statistical Office and who have been making censuses for over 130 years! Ladies and gentlemen, in no case since the existence of official statistics, there is also only one suspicion that personal data has been passed on. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Not the problem!]] You can't give any suspicions and evidence at all here. What is it? - We need a census. Yes, we need the census for the financial balance, but we also need the census for you all who sit here. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you need the census just as we do from the other parties! I just think it's an unheard-of thing that you're putting here! The merger of data from the census with the registers of the municipalities – which are primarily managed by the municipalities – is indeed an administrative simplification. This is not a question of the false disclosure of data. The social security number will disappear, Mr Oellinger! It is a requirement if you claim that social security numbers are registered in the registration registers. [[Abg. Oillinger: We didn't say anything! ... with which data politics is made!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But something... [[Abg. Parnigoni:... equation!]] It is not possible, Mr Parnigoni, that there can be passed on data that you can work with the social security number in the registration registers! If you put that under your control, you'll say that against better knowledge! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can't guarantee that!]] I guarantee you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Parnigoni, I guarantee this because for the fourth time I will lead the census in my federal state primarily responsible. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That no one commits data abuse?]] I have also led the censuses of 1971, 1981 and 1991 primarily responsible. But something is unfair – and I would like to say that quite clearly here: It's unfair when communities try to recruit each other citizens. This is unfair – this applies to mayor Häupl as well as to many other mayors. I would like these unfair advertisings to be terminated as soon as possible. Let us decide for ourselves where they have their headquarters! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The census is necessary. The registration register is just as necessary and has been required by you, by the SPÖ, since 1971.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22957	The next speaker is Mr Egghart. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22979	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This matter of law is really balanced in all things. It brings with it administrative simplification, it is very sophisticated in the social field, it brings greater benefits to simple people. Federal Minister! You can only congratulate this novel. I just want to ask you something here. You have an article of 12. February in the "profile" written that you will save 259 officials in the Federal Police Directorate Vienna alone, who will mainly use you on the street – in the "closer area" as you call it. Mr Federal Minister, I think this is particularly important in Vienna. We have had major problems in recent years, especially with the demonstrations. In this context, I think only of the storm at the Burgtheater, when there was no command of action from the red tip of the Vienna BPD. Federal Minister! From my point of view, it is a bit of annoyance, for example, if I imagine that at the time of Mr. Grasser's presentation, in which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic should also be present, the Federal Chancellor was warned at the last moment before this attack, before this attack on the "Marriott" – in which it was damaged and police officers were injured – so that he could not go there. I think it certainly is very good to use these officials there and get rest for the population. People have really deserved it, there is the need to make the most of it. The Vienna Opera Ball alone has again shown what problems we have, and I just need to think about what State Secretary Finz told me: He goes past the police cordon, before him a taxi, behind him a taxi; five chaots come to these, the discs are hit with baseball hits, and there is no command from the police. Federal Minister! I believe that it will be really necessary to clean up once in the area of the political top of the BPD Vienna, because the fish starts to smell at the head. I believe that this will be necessary to give the "small" officials the necessary assurance that they will not be left alone. I would like to say the following to colleagues from the left half of the empire. If you are concerned about the law, you can only say one thing: The bad guy thinks he is. What has bothered me especially today is – and this is very interesting – that right-wing breakers of the left-wing scene should not be described as "chaot-sinkling" even though arsons and knife stickers have been underneath them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think it will be necessary, with all due care, to point out the problems in Vienna with the necessary clarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23033	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23054	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Three comments and an attempt to clarify contributions. First of all, Mr Kiermaier: Mr deputies, all the considerations that the Constitutional Service has made have been incorporated into the current amendment. Perhaps you had a preliminary draft available, and not the draft which is now before you for discussion and decision-making. I must say to Mr Reindl: Yes, reporting is transmitted, also because it was a clear demand of the city government. I have thus complied with a long-standing demand of the Municipal Government, and I cannot actually understand why this has not already been done by one of my predecessors. To the hint of you: This novel is, of course, EU-compliant! The EU Directive you address has been drawn up and applies exclusively to Community statistics. And this is not the case here, with leave. And in the direction of Mrs Lichtenberger: Madam President, the so-called "mediation" of Mrs Petrovic in the violent outpourings around the opera ball was really not helpful! I have to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This action has greatly impeded our work and has done her very much harm. This action has met with complete misunderstanding and massive rejection. In my view, I believe that this has not really contributed to raising the reputation of the honourable Members or Members as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23104	Mrs Haidlmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23125	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, first of all, a brief opinion on your last statement: I believe that if a Member is asked to come and help with the fact that outcries may not be escalating, then this is a responsibility that every Member of this House should take care of if he is asked to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: From whom?]] [[Further calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who asked her? Who?]] To do that badly now – Mr Minister, I do not quite understand you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Called from the "TATblatt"!]] Now to the census, Minister. The census that we regret – I really say: unfortunately! – now that they will be in May, violence is in another form by forcing people to register as their headquarters in a place that is never and never their headquarters, nor will it ever be their headquarters. It is particularly bad then when disabled people have to come to a home for a limited period of time, for example, because home care cannot currently be guaranteed. I've been caring for such a fate for almost four weeks. In fact, this is about a 49-year-old man who has had a stroke and has to live in a nursing home until his apartment is adapted accordingly. He does not voluntarily do so, he certainly would not have chosen the nursing home at the age of 49 – even in transitory terms. Do you know what happened? – Unfortunately, this nursing home is not in the community in which he otherwise lives. Now he has been forced by this competent congregation to log in there, although he will only live there in transit, at home. That means he has to leave his family, he has to log out of his family with two children with whom he lives at his home. He needs to unsubscribe because otherwise he won't get a so-called contract in this home. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your horror stories...!]] They say "my God"? – Do you know, as "my God", as You say it's not! You don't know the situation. [[Abg. Neudeck: He doesn't live at home...!]] If this man now logs out of his community headquartered, he has no chance of getting a disabled home in his community – so it is! – because he has to be reported in his community for some time in order to have a claim to a non-profit dwelling. [[Abg. Großruck: Which municipality are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Which municipality is that? What's a mayor there?]] I have already sent a question to the Minister, and I am already curious about how he will answer it to me. I have also contacted this competent municipality. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's where they told me: If it wasn't the census, we wouldn't care if this man was reported to us at a headquarters or a second residence. Now it's about the census, we need the money, the money is important to us. – What happens to the man after that, whether he will get an apartment in his community or not, that is not her problem. These are the results of this census that really bring people into scandalous situations. They are taken from their communities only to get the "head money", even if the man, as in this case, only has to stay there for 14 days or three weeks – or perhaps, if he is wrong, six weeks – and live there. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] These are the growths of your census, in addition to the growths, that you want to know even the social security number, just because it's about the census. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was not pleasant for the old Romans, counting!]] I received a questionnaire from Vienna, which I should also have completed with my social security number. Minister! I ask you – and hope you can answer me –: What does my social security number have to do with the census? – If you tell me nothing! – because she has nothing to do with it – I ask you: Then why can the municipality of Vienna ask my social security number for the census? This has a reason: It is only about trying to link data from the census with other data, and the social security number is, of course, an essential number. If you shake your head now and say it doesn't work like that, please explain to me what the social security number has to do with the census, nothing! In this context, it is only about data collection and data merge, and about knowing where the individual is staying and what he is doing! With this, it is controlled pretty slowly more or less consistently on step and step! If today in the census is already asked, with whom I live on my second residence, how often this one stops there, whether and how many days a year the children also stay on my second residence, then I feel this as an intervention in my personal freedom. This is a very clear intervention in my personal freedom! It must not be of any interest to the census whether I have a washing machine and iron at my second residence and how often my son, my companion, my friend or whoever visits me and how many days they stay. This is a collection of data that is not justified! Below on this note it is still stated that if I am not willing to provide this data, this census sheet will be passed to the Ministry of the Interior and then prescribed to me where my headquarters is to be. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it just stops! I am a powerful citizen, and all the people in this country have the right to choose their headquarters where they want it – and not where a community, a head of state, a Mr. Minister or whoever wants it! If you are already going so far as to pressure disabled people to register in their homes and thus to lose any social contact and any claim of their home community, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Where have we come from, and how important is the individual person to you? – Actually, it is only more important to you that you have the head money of each individual citizen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23296	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We come to the vote, and we vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 501 of the supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of this draft law gives their approval to a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading give a sign. – I notice: The law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. 14. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (418 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Law on driving licence (Führerscheingesetz – FSG, BGBl. I No. 120/1997 idF BGBl. I No. 134/1999) is amended (496 of the supplements) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Reinhard Firlinger, Mag. Helmut Kukackaand comrades on measures against drugs in road transport (490 of supplements) 16. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution 89/A(E) by Mr Kurt Ederund Comrades on improving road safety by increasing the scope of Austrian roads (494) 17. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 26/A by Dr Evelin Lichtenberger and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Road Traffic Regulations 1960 (495 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23394	We come to points 14 to 17 of the agenda. The discussions on these points will be carried out jointly. First speaker is Mrs Dr. Lichtenberger. The clock is set to 6 minutes. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23421	Ladies and gentlemen! The present transport package, which is now available for decision-making in the late evening, contains a very diverse mix of transport-related applications. The first request concerning the question of the re-regulation of the driving licence requirement or the requirement of identification for Microcars did not find the consent of us Greens, which at the end of the day was based on a small but very relevant detail. – The so-called microcars are used very often as "evasive vehicles", such as when someone is removed from the driver's license for more frequent alcohol abuse. They are also used by certain people who, as it were, would be difficult to obtain a driver's license. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Of course, we have a problem with this if you have the acquisition of the right to drive such a vehicle last At the end, make it so easy and allow without testing. If you had allowed this arbitrary 24-year limit to fall away, then our consent would have been to be expected. It is not to be seen why it should be at an arbitrary age limit if someone has to take a test on what he has to know when driving a vehicle on public roads. That was the stone of the incitement that we could not agree to this request. A new regulation is urgently necessary, because, of course, apart from the question of speed, if someone does not drive responsibly and is trained to perform the same damage in the event of an accident as someone on the road. That's why I couldn't bear this advantage. The last request to the debate here is the request for a ban on night driving, which I have been trying to discuss with you all the time since the beginning of this legislative period. This proposal is more than important, and it is very sad and very sad that you, ladies and gentlemen, will reject it from the government groups, because with the new regulation of the bans on trucks at European level, which is to be expected in the spring of this year, Austria will take every opportunity to introduce new driving bans. I believe that we are giving up a very problematic field, because if we can no longer introduce a regulation on trans-European routes to protect people, we will give out an important and necessary instrument of transport policy as a whole. – I know, however, that you are under the pressure of the Fachter Lobby and cannot introduce this ban! I come to the last point that has been discussed for a long time in the Committee on Transport, namely on alcohol and drugs at the tax. In this respect too, we would not have been so far apart from the intention if your intention had been to follow you, namely to increase road safety. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to increase road safety, we must aim at the effects of drugs, drugs and alcohol on the tax – and not at the fact that someone used a drug a long time before. We also need to take into account – and you did not! – that some drugs are simple and imperceptible at all. Furthermore, you have not been taken into account that there are no reliable tests so far to assess certain drugs and drugs with regard to their impact on the ability to travel. That is to say, the executive – as it is now – has no opportunity to really determine the difference without training. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to increase your intention to increase road safety, you should have actually followed our request, which goes far beyond what you have requested in the area of road safety. But it seems to you that this is only a matter of drug policy on the back of road safety. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But with this view you are alone!]] This is even rejected by the ÖAMTC! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to repeat the motion for a resolution which I have already tabled in the Committee during the debate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We cannot accept this request!]] I think it is much more comprehensive and much more targeted than the proposal you have made because it refers to the mode of action of drugs, drugs and alcohol. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you agree to this request, we have put in place an efficient package to increase road safety! Your request is not suitable for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23529	The request just read is duly filed, signed and under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Kurt Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23553	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! In the Transport Committee, we discussed several issues relating to road safety. In this context, I would like to mention once again that despite the reduction in the number of road fatalities to 995 road fatalities in Austria last year, the figures of accidents in Austria are still far too high in international comparison, and therefore there is an urgent need to make further efforts to increase road safety on Austria's roads. We therefore call for a national road safety programme for all modes of transport with the aim of reducing the number of accidents by 2005 to a maximum of 600 fatalities per year in Austria, i.e. again by a good third. Mrs. Federal Minister! Your proposal, according to which you want to present a national road safety concept exclusively for motor vehicles and not at the same time for trucks and other modes of transport, seems to us to be a little too little and insufficient. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, we discussed in the committee a driver's license law, in which microcars drivers – i.e. these small vehicles – are not least required to protect the drivers themselves with appropriate training requirements. On the basis of our request in the Transport Committee, we were able to reach agreement with the government parties that the corresponding training is now taking place not only in driving schools, but also in the car drivers' clubs, which have been doing excellent moped training for years. Thus, the driver's license for microcars can now be acquired unbureaucratically and without great financial effort from the car clubs. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, the SPÖ Group cannot agree to this bill, because it is simply irresponsible if it is provided that all persons who can only make believe that they have already steered a four-wheeled light-powered vehicle will receive the Moped ID without any proof of theoretical or practical knowledge at a transitional stage of one year. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it must be borne in mind that this right is issued indefinitely and that microcar steering is partly risky! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to go further, which groups of people are driving these small cars. It is often older people who want to meet their personal needs in rural areas. That's all right! However, it is often also people who, due to alcohol or drug problems – on which we are still talking – no longer obtain a driver's license, and therefore it would have been good in the sense of road safety to impose at least certain minimum requirements for all these drivers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of drugs in road transport: I would like to stress once again that in this context we have dealt exclusively with the question of "drugs in road transport". . The Socialist Group has always known that road users affected by drugs have to be removed from transport. We therefore agree with this motion for a resolution tabled by the government so that drug abuse in road transport and the resulting impairments in the ability to travel – both of which are now no longer a marginal issue – will finally be effectively combated. At the same time, I note that we also agree with Mrs Lichtenberger's request because we believe that we will agree to any request that contributes to solving this problem. However, I would have liked to have a suitable government paper on the table yesterday in the committee and today, that we could have discussed an actual change of law today, and not only now, Mrs Federal Minister, should we ask you to finally take action! . We have nevertheless agreed to this motion for a resolution, on which we are full-fledged, in order to call on the Federal Ministers to act very quickly now. I expect a practical concept within a few weeks, but I also know how difficult it will be to develop such a concept. We will endeavour to continue to cooperate in the Committee on Transport. However, the attitude of Mr Strasser's Minister of the Interior, for he has commented on your proposals, Mrs Forstinger, literally only in such a way that he says: The Federal Ministry of the Interior is prepared for all events, including events from the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. – I hope this is not too ironic! Mrs. Federal Minister! There is obviously still a lack of coordination with the executive, and I urgently urge them to be made! However, I also take away from the statement by Mr Waneck, the Secretary of State, who is a doctor and has stated literally in the "standard" a few days ago: "There are currently no reliable rapid tests to verify whether a car driver is under illegal drugs or not." – So you have to look at these things very, very well! Mrs. Federal Minister! They are now required to present to the House as quickly as possible a practical approach which is agreed throughout the Federal Government. If this is practicable and is used for road safety, then the SPÖ Group will not lock down to give its consent. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am also somewhat sad that Parnigoni and Eder's request on street handling – Mr Parnigoni will explain him for a short time – could not find the agreement and that the agricultural directors and the lobbies, who would like to continue to use slippery limestone, have enforced themselves. If, in accordance with its request, which we will not agree with, the government coalition now wants to explore accident priorities, then I can only say that this request is unnecessary insofar as the accident and accident priorities at any time are available at any time in the road safety board at the push of a button. So we don't have to wait for anything for two years! Mrs. Federal Minister! Summa summarum you have three points in which the road safety could be significantly improved, and at the same time you have three failures: First of all, it would have been a matter of developing a practical approach against drugs in road transport and already presenting an appropriate legislative proposal today. - You missed that. Secondly, you have so far failed to adopt a regulation on minimum effectiveness. And thirdly, you have also failed to provide a truly road safety solution regarding microcars. I'm sorry to have to notice your mistakes here! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23640	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23662	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the hour ahead, I really want to take a short look. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's how long speeches begin!]] This will not be possible, Mr Klubobmann, because you have limited me to five minutes, and I will have to stick to that! This amendment to the driving licence law closes a gap in road safety policy, and that is why it is important. Anyone who wants to direct a microcar will have to take an eight-hour theory course and a six-hour course in the future, while persons under 24 will also have to prove their theoretical knowledge. This is important because we know that especially in the age group between 16 and 24 years of age, the accident frequency is particularly high or at least above average in the population cross-section. Considering that one has been able to drive so far without having had any training and having to prove any knowledge, this is now a very important and significant progress in terms of road safety. I would like to say that the new Federal Government has already taken an important and decisive step towards greater road safety in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! Former governments, former transport ministers have talked about it – but now this is being implemented! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, I would like to insist on this, because there has been criticism, that neither drug or alcohol controls nor other persons who are unreliable for any reason should direct a microcar. This is, of course, already applicable, and this, of course, is all the more so now. Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing further to us than to give a driver's license with this microcar rule! I would like to maintain that in all clarity here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful for the fact that a three-party agreement on our motion for a resolution has been reached today, so that the Socialists have also agreed to this motion. The tragic death of two police officers by a so-called drug controller has shown that this has long been a very serious problem, and that it is no longer permitted to accept any kind of anti-harmonization strategies in this context. The alcohol regulator in question was currently undergoing a methadone withdrawal program, but was not only identified with methadone, but also with alcohol, heroin and cannabis. Ladies and gentlemen! So we see that this is a serious problem that we cannot look beyond! That's why I'm saying: The proposals made by the Greens are not credible! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Of course they are!]] Mrs Lichtenberger, you know as well as I do that in the context of this problem, you have always been patterns of protection for drug users and have always tried to do this problem with impoverishment and as if it were not possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is an understatement! That's a community!]] Mrs Lichtenberger, we are going to discuss this issue more often, and there are a number of written questions which are also documenting this, and we will also prove this to you accordingly. It is therefore important to lay down the legal obligation of the vehicle driver concerned to participate in the identification of a current addictive impairment by carrying out so-called drug screening. We want such preliminary tests to be made possible, and we want what has long been tested in other countries to be introduced in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: The "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) I have found that the SPÖ is going to make a distrust request against Mrs. Forstinger today. – When I look at the clock, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, I have to say that you have to hurry in order not to punish the "Kronen-Zeitung" lies! However, if you are still submitting this motion for distrust, just prove that you are not taking your own actions seriously, but that it is best for you to have a cheap headline! [[Abg. Edler: What did country captain Pröll say?]] If you want to use one of the most important parliamentary weapons at midnight, namely a request for distrust, don't take yourself seriously as an opposition! How do you intend to be taken seriously by us on this question? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is very cheap to make Mrs Forstinger responsible for the problems that socialist transport ministers left her in ten years' time as unresolved problems! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The accusations you make her are charges against yourself! This is a catalogue of shortcomings and failures that you have to write behind your ears, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Who wanted to prevent the 0.5-promille most?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] All these unresolved problems cannot be solved in a hundred days, and that is why your allegations are totally unacceptable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23818	That's 7 minutes now. – Mrs Lichtenberger has now come to speak of an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23856	Mr Kukacka referred to me in his speech as the patron saint of drug drivers. . I think that this is a personal insult that can be rebutted on the basis of the text of my request, in which very concrete and clear measures are required against drugs at the tax level! [[Abg. Haigermoser: There is no impersonal insult!]] Deputies! I'm asking you to apologize to me!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23937	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23961	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Lichtenberger, do not touch the affected! That's unbelievable! Please Believe You're telling me: That's incredible to ridiculous! That's an unworthy acting! Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What you're performing is more than unbelievable!]] We can keep the mirror under your nose! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] They have always taken action to ensure that those who consume drugs, whether at home or at the tax, get away with it as unscathed as possible! Let's stick to the truth! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I'm sorry, Mr. Cot.]] Play You're not the victims here! Then you should be better able to act! Learn this once, then maybe we'll take you a little more! But certainly not! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Mrs Lichtenberger! You just need to get your request exactly to your mind. What's the point? – They say you have to check for drugs, because that might be a problem. At the same time, however, you are concerned about something different: They want to have a promille discussion or alcohol debate again. They want to recoup the debate on drugs to a new alcohol debate, and we are not participating! Therefore, you react as the affected. That's the truth! This is the real background, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mr Eder! I appreciate that the Socialist Group has agreed to a three-party vote, albeit a little in need. I know it wasn't so voluntary! After all: There are also opinions in the SPÖ in this regard, and I agree with Mr Eder that he is serious. However, we do not need to ask the Minister to do so. This is, as it were, only a formal act, because the Federal Minister has already become active. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Just read the minutes of the Council of Ministers on this matter! Ladies and gentlemen from the Socialist Group! The final draft of the government parties will be reviewed in just a few days. Something has already been done! So don't pretend you always have to ask for it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] We have taken an important step in this proposal for an initiative. It will find the majority of this House, and then it will continue. We will then wait in peace for the review process. Ladies and gentlemen! That's so simple, in fact! We don't need any calls! We will then have a suitable bill which we will discuss here, according to which there will be equal treatment between drug offences at the tax level and alcohol offences at the tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's why it's about always looking for a "escape-road", a way to avoid it! That is what we want to end! [[Abg. Edler: Is this a liberal or a free speech or even an ÖVP speech?]] My colleague, your filths have been better before! I appreciate you very much, but please let me think of something else! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say two more sentences on the microcar novelle: I mean, in spite of all the critics, that this has really succeeded in a very good design. At least in sub-areas, there has also been agreement by the opposition parties. That's something! It was very important to us that we also open the market for training, because we take the results of the review seriously. That's really a concern for us. If driver clubs demand 2 600 S and driving schools up to 12 600 S for the previous Moped driver's license, then you have to do something to get the competition going. We do not want us to make a new law and, so to speak, to take account of the consumer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I know. You always didn't care! The most important thing is a new law! You've never looked at the finances! This has been experienced for many years on the basis of your fiscal policy! You always didn't care! With us, with the current government fractions, this is different. We take this very seriously. We do not want to ask the citizens, who have acquired such a vehicle in their confidence in the legal situation a few years ago, to the cash register. That is the quality difference of this government, and it is also honoured!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24080	Mrs Forstinger came to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24101	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to comment briefly on a number of points, in particular on microcars. My ministry has presented the draft to Parliament with the government template. It has also been discussed about the training that is now needed, and mentions that, in the sense of competition, other training facilities are also allowed to carry out this training. I would also like to refer to one point, namely the mandatory health examination: I believe that this would require a significant increase in the administrative burden, and I would also like to say that this mandatory health examination would mean a significant increase in the cost to those concerned, and I cannot imagine, even in the light of other measures we are discussing, that this would be useful. In connection with the driver's license novices, the costs are often addressed by you, and I therefore believe that this new law also takes into account the guarantee for the microcars accordingly. One essential point is the debate on drugs at the tax level, and unfortunately my lead in January has gained importance through sad updates. Nevertheless, an own-initiative proposal has been made very quickly, and I am particularly pleased that three government parties can follow this lead. If there has been a lack of information, I can tell you that the new legislation is already under review today, and I can also be pleased that it will soon enter into force. – Therefore, your arguments must be relativized accordingly! Mr Eder, on the subject of street accessibility: Although there are already a large number of studies on road accidents and accident statistics, it must be said that the accident peaks require a number of different measures. The survey has also shown that the rules in the road traffic regulations would in fact be sufficient. Of course, I agree that we will continue to examine this, submit a report to you every two years and will also work out the key points in this regard and will also address road accessibility as an aspect of road safety. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] For the night's driving ban: Mrs Lichtenberger, I believe that an essential excuse regarding night-time driving ban has also been made in that it has been shown that truck manufacturers and freight forwarders have changed quickly and these changes have also been taken very quickly into account. I can't imagine it's your intention to actually prefer the trucks below 7.5 tons! However, with your advance on night driving ban, you would do so, and that cannot be your intention in the sense of an environmentally friendly policy! I therefore also understand that this request would not have been supported, although you know that protecting the population and the environment is an essential aspect for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24150	The next speaker was Mr Dietachmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24171	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Firlinger in advance for providing us as the opposition party in the future with the minutes of the Council of Ministers. He has announced this, and we thank him in advance! The request concerning the request that the Minister of State should become active is a request from the government parties, which we naturally support. So I don't understand your excitement! As far as Mr Kukacka's contribution to the debate is concerned, I should like to say: I obviously have to remind you again and again that the ÖVP and its transport spokesperson are a member of the Federal Government for a long time. On this occasion I would also like to ask you: Who, for example, was the preventer in one of the most important votes concerning 0.5 promille limits? – I would like to remind you, Mr Kukacka, that it was exactly the ÖVP Group that sat here in third reading and brought the whole thing down – until then another such serious accident occurred and it finally came so far that a majority for the 0.5 Promille border could be found here in this House! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What about Colleague Hagenhofer? You forced them to vote!]] Mr Kukacka, I have to remind you again and again, unfortunately! Transport safety is not only on paper, but one must also live it and confess to it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same is true of the driver's license for these small vehicles, for the microcars. It is already in line with the previous government's concern that no one should be on the road with a motor vehicle that does not have a minimum level of traffic knowledge in theory and practice, with "evidently" being the very starting point. When we read the government paper, it was incomprehensible to us that this ID can only be issued by driving schools. – Apparently, the driving school lobby has tried to get a competitor out of the way! – At least I am glad that this could still be repaired at the last moment! I assume that the issue of driving licences will be more often dealt with in the near future, and I believe that driving licence A or B in Austria, compared to other countries, is far too expensive anyway! We don't need to go far, already a price comparison with Bavaria brings an interesting result. The transitional provisions, according to which all persons who prove that they have steered a light-duty vehicle before the entry into force of this driving licence legislation, should be subject to a moped driver's certificate, shall be criticised. What should this evidence or its credulity look like? Suffice the contract of purchase or the licence that someone might have received a day before the In-Force-Treats of this law? [[Abg. Wattaul: One year! You know that.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a legislator, transport safety should be one of the most important concerns at all. Being mobile means a high degree of freedom and quality of life. [[Abg. Wattaul: He doesn't even listen to the committee!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] Mobility is becoming more and more important in the way to work, in working life as well as in leisure. Mobility will continue to be an important prerequisite for progress, prosperity, growth and employment. Transport policy therefore faces the great challenge of ensuring mobility in a sustainable manner, as secure, environmentally friendly and socially fair as possible. Mrs. Federal Minister! There's a lot of work in front of you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24256	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. The watch is gladly set to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24278	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We read success reports in the newspapers about the fight against drug abuse every week. Only on Tuesday this week the executive was able to achieve another success: 85 kilos of heroin worth 230 million schilling could be confiscated. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, in the past two months, more addiction has already been seized than in the previous year, and this shows that the dark figures associated with drug abuse are likely to be increased by some or blatantly high. It must also be considered that almost every drug user has a driving licence, and this fact fully takes into account our motion for a resolution. In this way we want to intensify our fight against drug abuse and thus contribute to road safety. We all know that there are gaps in the exchange of information between justice and executives, which must be closed. It is also necessary to improve the blood tests necessary to demonstrate the use of drugs, in particular by laying down the driver's obligation to participate in concrete moments of suspicion. Most of all, it seems to me to be information. It must start as early as possible with the information requirement, and in this context I should like, in particular, to call on SPÖs to control their youth organisations or their youth organisations, because it cannot be that almost weekly advertising is being made, with which they try to motivate young people to consume drugs. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We represent our own opinion!]] I can't do that. Your contribution to the safety of transport and to the best of youth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24315	Mr Sodian has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24337	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder and Mr Parnigoni have tabled a very factual motion for a resolution to improve road safety by increasing grip on Austrian roads. They justify this with the lack of a minimum standard of grip on federal and municipal roads. In addition, colleagues call for the reorganisation of sensitive routes and for a report to be submitted to the National Council in two years' time. These demands were largely taken into account in the resolution of the government parties. On the other hand, your call for the minimum standard to be introduced on national and municipal roads was not taken into account, and I do not agree that there is much to be done to integrate municipal and regional roads. It would certainly be better for the driver if he could rely on the same guidelines on all roads. However, it says that those polar-resistant rocks are only limited and we have to expect more costs. It seems far more important to me that the rehabilitation of the low-gauge sections is immediately under way – but also the systematic rehabilitation of bodies which have increased frequency of accidents at wet conditions is urgently necessary. In this observation period, it would certainly be important to use more hard-splitting in order to allow price comparisons with the conventional limestone split. The importance of this issue shows that of 42 000 accidents involving passenger damage, about 8,000 are due to slings and slides and 2 200 sling accidents are due to wet roads. A total of 150 people were killed in the year. Mr Eder and Mr Parnigoni! This motion for a resolution is a reasonable compromise, which is economically acceptable, but which is a first important step towards increasing road safety. And if it really is about security, then you agree to this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24380	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24401	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My topic is: Action against drugs in road transport. – This issue is to be taken seriously! We do not impoverish this problem, but I hold it with the ARBÖ, who thinks hysteria would still be missing in this subject. And an alibi law does not help anyone! The effects of various drugs can be brought to a common denominator in road transport: deadly danger to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen! What kind of drugs are there? – There are legal and illegal drugs. Legal drugs include alcohol and drugs, and illegal drugs, in turn, are soft and hard drugs. [[Abg. Wattaul: In road traffic alcohol is not legal!]] The impact and impact of various drugs on roadworthiness are very different: Drugs, for example, make tired, soft drugs lead to a phlegmatic basic attitude, hard drugs make driving even the garage. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is a "soft drug"?]] A soft drug, Mr. Colleague, is, for example, cannabis, hard drugs are cocaine or heroin. [[Abg. Wattaul: These are already forbidden, are they?]] However, a legal drug is alcohol, among other things, and your ring of the Free Young People invites you to enjoy this legal drug, to drink it free! [[Abg. Wattaul: Alcohol is not legal in road transport!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Wattaul! Don't be so excited! I've already noticed you're here! I know! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The drug evidence is very different: For alcohol there is the alcomat, for drugs the blood analysis, for the detection of soft drugs the hashomat and for hard drugs the blood analysis and the official examination. Dr. Othmar Thann, Director of the Board of Directors for Transport Safety, said: "Akute Rauschstand" – Mr Schweitzer! – "is only easy to check with alcohol. In the case of other drugs it is more problematic to prove that products of degradation are still to be demonstrated in the urine weeks later, even if the acute impairment has already been resolved." - Quote. So did your Secretary of State Waneck. And so that we know what we're talking about: The transport physician of ARBÖ, Professor Primarius Dr. Josef Nagler, shows the relations – I quote –: It is assumed that some 30,000 people in Austria consume more or less illegal drugs on a regular basis. They face some 500,000 alcohol patients and about 100,000 drug addicts. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about alcohol at the wheel, I remember that it was the FPÖ that voted against the reduction to 0.5 promille. And that speaks a clear language! In fact, however, monitoring legislation is also a major problem. To do this, we need executive officials who are well trained and well trained – and who are present above all to be able to fulfill their or our mission. However, the emerging trend shows a different picture: The SPÖ's request for an increase of 1 000 executive officials was rejected or postponed, and overall we note that the number of executive officials is reduced throughout the country. So where is the necessary control? – Minister Strasser is clearly sumptuous and negligent in this regard! It should be noted that the greatest risks to road transport are still shaving and alcohol. Safety and transport safety are a priority, and the issue of "drugs at the tax" requires serious and scientific discussion. Quick shots lead to misconceptions. You have already had some experience with this, Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Are you too fast or slow now?]] The increase in individual transport can only be intercepted by a well-developed network of public transport. That is why, Mrs Minister, it is necessary to become active in connection with the planned closures of the railways. In my region, Ybbstalbahn is affected, and I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue in relation to road transport and drugs at the tax is also to be mentioned, because the shift from rail to road means an additional burden on people, nature and the environment. [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Mrs. Minister! I hope that you will save the people and prevent them from doing so!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24512	Mr Wattaul is speaking as the next speaker. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24533	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Binder, I have to tell you: I'm really shocked! So there is a Member in this House who really says that alcohol is legal at the tax. Just think about professional traffic! Mr Eder, you will know: For professional traffic, 0.0 Promille! Or isn't that right? Who ever said alcohol is "legal"? It's really crazy that a Member says that! [[Abg. Binder: Is beer drinks punishable?]] Yes, of course, at the tax! You can't drink alcohol at the wheel, that's not legal! And I have to tell you now: If someone takes drugs, he's lost nothing in road traffic! That's so simple! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And something else I would like to say to you very consciously: Our young people should consider whether they are taking drugs and whether they will get problems if they want to have a driver's license in the future. There must also be a sign in this regard! This has to be said from here on, and it must not always be impoverished and said: You can't test that, you can't! For proof of alcohol, you used to take the tube, and that wasn't exactly it. But that's the way for you to take someone to a doctor and make a test if you think he's affected. Similarly, we want to do this now, because it cannot be controlled on alcohol naturally and legitimately, but not on drugs! This is simply an abuse, and therefore I do not understand this debate. Mrs. Lichtenberger! I'm even the most shocked of you! [[Abg. Binder: I can imagine that!]] You have filed a number of times in your period as a councillor in Tyrol concerning the ban on night driving. Now, for the fourth time in Parliament, you are making the same request. You probably did nothing else in Tyrol, and that's why you were sent to Parliament to get you out of there! That's really crazy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24594	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24616	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on Eder, Parnigoni's motion for a resolution on the minimum standards for the gripping of road coverings, because I believe that this would be a very important contribution to improving road safety. This request calls for minimum standards. It also calls for agreements with countries to be concluded in order to ensure such minimum standards in the area of municipal and national roads. Secondly, I believe that this request is important because it is intended to ensure that especially in the well-known accident areas, on intersections and especially in other sensitive areas, such as tunnels, those road coverings that have increased grip and thus provide improved road safety. High house! An example: At 80 kilometres you have a braking path of about 50 meters with good grip of the covering, with poor coating a brake path of 85 meters. This actually means that 35 meters of life and death decide; it depends on the quality of the street floor. We know that every fifth accident has to be associated with slipping or sluggish behavior. This is mainly due to the fact that a lot of limestone and gravel is brought into this asphalt. The use of granite or diabas is in all cases much better. I do not hide the fact that I am also concerned about the forest fourth grain grain grain, which has the highest quality. It is clear from the economic costs: The increased accident costs are in a ratio of seven to one with the increased extra cost of improving the quality of the siege. My speaking time is only 3 minutes, so I have come to an end. – It is unfortunate that the government and you, Mrs. Minister, cannot decide to say goodbye to the limestone lobby, and that you are, in fact, insisting on road safety to continue to introduce dangerous loads for road safety rather than high-quality hardstone coatings. This would be a contribution to road safety, which you unfortunately do not make.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24661	The next speaker was Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24682	Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, Mrs Lichtenberger in particular! Their contributions, which are now used before the Vienna election to spread a little sand to the public, are exposed. Today, you say: We're against drugs anyway. – That is being countercared... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now I will read to you the following request, filed on 19. October 2000 – that is, in this legislative period, a few months ago, a few weeks ago –: "Development request by Members Brosz, friends and friends on "Ensuring the consumption of cannabis..." – The National Council has decided: The Federal Government is invited to... To set the example of measures to enable the use of cannabis without law enforcement in order to comply with the differentiation between drugs that experts require from different hazards and addiction potentials." - Quote. [[Oh, call the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God the National Council has not decided!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This means that you want to decriminalize the entry-level drug of course also at the tax. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No!]] That would put hundreds of lives in our country at risk, ladies and gentlemen! So you are once again exposed to your dual tenacity. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true!]] – Of course that is true! Therefore, in the Vienna election campaign, we will also tell the citizens what path red-green wants to go. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This has nothing to do with road safety!]] You're in bad company with Mrs. Pittermann. You will not succeed in spite of all of your creds, which you have used today to distract from this request. [[Abg. Edler: And you know what the mayor says!]] This Federal Government is for the health of our youth! We will not allow you to start a distraction maneuver on the one hand by saying "alcohol at the wheel", on the other hand here for the entry-drug cannabis and thus endangering human lives.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24798	Mr Reheis is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24820	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! In addition to the topic of "drugs and alcohol in road transport", allow me to introduce other issues, which would be very important for Tyrol at the moment. Mrs. Federal Minister! A brief comment, because you are now in office for more than a hundred days: When you take office here in the High House and the population, you also promised to use a hundred percent commitment to dealing with the shortcomings left by your predecessor, short-term minister Schmid, in transport policy. For me, just over this hundred days of your ministerial activity have left a hundred percent inability to solve the most pressing problems in the field of transport, because of this promised 100% commitment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even if you are now given broad approval in the driver's license for microcars and in the steps to reduce alcohol and drugs in road transport, your foreign exchange is nevertheless on numerous projects that are relevant to transport policy development: Delay, brake and prevent! – Unfortunately, there are enough examples of this, they have already been mentioned here in the House: Truck road pricing, transit contract, infrastructure construction stop, railway station expansion stop, Unterinntalbahn – to name just some of the "braked" projects. But there are also accusations in the human field, for example in regard to how you, Mrs. Forstinger, deal with your staff in the cabinet. On the subject of "drugs in road transport" many things have already been said by my previous speakers. However, as has already been said, I am also concerned with other problems affecting road safety. I am particularly angry at the delays that harm the population, or those that slow down the development of road safety. As early as September last year, we Socialists made a request to amend the Federal Law on the Motor Vehicles – Motor Vehicles Act 1967. You remember: This law concerns the admissibility of the maximum weight of a truck, according to which a breach of the loading rules and any excess of 40 tonnes of total weight also pose a threat to road safety. The share of overloaded trucks on the Inntal-Brenner-Route is about 20 percent or about 300,000 journeys through Tyrol "donner". And that puts road safety at risk. Although this application has been available for almost half a year now, but also Hansjörg Constantini or the Tiroler Landtag, responsible for transport, has sent a resolution to the Ministry of Transport, you have delayed a rapid change of law. Now, with today's "TT", we are told that there is an additional dispute here, similar to the Pingpong game at the ecopoints. While according to legal opinion of university professor Dr. Heinz Mayer, the usual execution of the 40-ton limit for trucks in Tyrol is clearly illegal, Hofrat Hansjörg Constantini, the head of the transport department of the state of Tyrol, has rejected this criticism. Hofrat Constantini also calls for an amendment to the motor vehicle law, an amendment to the motor vehicle law on an application which has been in the House since autumn. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this is a disregard for delays and pressures before decisions, but it is also a longingly significant obstacle to road safety. Unfortunately, my speaking time is soon to end. Otherwise, we would have to say a lot, for example, about the persecution of ecopoint sinners, which also has great consequences for Tyrol; for example, as regards your instructions and what is happening now, after Tirol has hired 20 administrative staff to follow your instructions, and you now say that Tyrol is not actually responsible for the punishment of foreign fleet operators. What happens to your instructions? Mrs. Federal Minister, explain to us! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24880	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24901	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, it is a special pleasure for me to be able to address the word to you today despite the advanced hour, not least because I believe that all the points discussed here – as my previous speakers have already stressed – are a real improvement in the situation. What is it about? – It is essentially an improvement in the technical field, for example in the field of agricultural vehicles. Thank God there are also safety-technical quantum leaps, for example, if one proceeds from the light system, from the glazing, from the power steering or from the brake systems. Of course, the speed of these tractors has also increased. The design speed is an average of 45 kilometers per hour. I think it is simply a command of time to bring the farmers of our country into the light of a legal grey zone and to allow them to ride 50 kilometres per hour with their tractors – not least because the F guide is a high-quality training and therefore the road safety for other road users is not at risk. There will also be an increase in traffic flow through a faster movement of the tractors, which in turn is in the sense of the general public. In principle, it should be said to the Microcars that these will probably not increase traffic flow. But one thing is quite clear: Which group of people use Microcars? – These are mostly older people, and in the end they are not so cheap people who enter this market segment. I believe that the government has an order to respond with respect and caution. The current eight-hour system for theory and six hours for practice is, as I believe, a truly portable and good solution for all concerned. Of course – this is also explicitly stated in the text of the law – it is not allowed to continue to enjoy a visit to the inn with microcars. It really can't be! As regards drug abuse behind the tax, it is to be said that the government simply has the task of taking drug addicts out of the traffic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll go one step further: I also call for drug abuse to lead to a withdrawal of the driving licence. It has also been very interesting in the Committee and, as I believe, very fair discussion has been held on the increase in road gripping. We all want that, we know. But it is also about an optimal use of the available resources. I think that the way in which our Minister goes on this question, namely to lower the focus on accident spots, is a very commendable way of preventing accidents and thus saving people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24956	The next speaker was Mr Knerzl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24977	Mr President. Minister! High house! Due to the strong increase in body motor vehicles – so-called microcars – it will be necessary to create a legislative novel that allows the framework conditions for the operation of these vehicles. These vehicles are mainly suitable for local commuters, who were mostly dependent on the use of the moped. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No!]] For this group of people, this light vehicle is a great relief. The criticism of this "microcar novelle" may be justified in many areas, but the benefits outweigh. 80 000 of these motor vehicles are currently on the market, and the handlebars have trusted in buying them after completion of 24. Year of life without a driver's license. It is therefore necessary for them to have a transitional arrangement until 1. In July 2001 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations ==References== It will be necessary to complete practical and theoretical training. The criticism that microcars would be pure alcohol-vehicles or driver's license replacement vehicle goes empty because already in § 32 of the driver's license law, the fact that road-reliable persons are also prohibited from driving with Microcars and Mopeds.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25013	Mr Brosz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25034	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, in my contribution to the debate, I wanted to deal only with the colleagues from the Socialist Group – but a few introductory remarks are now indispensable. Mr Haigermoser really quoted my request. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe he apologizes for the Pirklhuber!]] In my opinion, and also in the opinion of the Green Group, the proposal still makes sense in the way it has been put forward. I would just like to remind you that a very interesting discussion is currently taking place in Europe on the issue of the criminalisation of cannabis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... release? Very "good"!]] The Swiss borders will be known to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] You can look at Belgium; You can also look at Portugal. All these countries have taken the view that a criminalisation of people who consume cannabis is neither medical nor social, and are going a clear way in drug policy by separating and discriminating. There is no question about this, and we will do so in the future. - That's a story. [[Abg. Kiss:... at the driver when he takes drugs!]] The second point is: The differentiation of talking about consumption on the one hand and the fact that it is linked to road traffic on the other is already relatively far-reaching. If you go to one of the famous tent festivals, drink over the thirst there and drive by car three days later, no one will have a problem with it because it's just about the nuisance of road traffic. This is probably the crucial point. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The use of illegal drugs is not allowed at all!]] The same thing, I think, would also be appropriate for drugs when it comes to road safety. When it comes to road safety! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The use of illegal drugs is forbidden, Mr. Cot!]] We can now take the step towards the Social Democrats. Mr Eder said at the outset: It's just about drugs in road traffic. . I believe that this is the crucial error in this request made by the government groups. In fact, it is clear that: It's about the evidence in the body. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You want to use drugs without punishment, that's the problem!]] It's road traffic... [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I'd also like to read to you what it's like. Point 2.b) states: "(b) what measures can be taken to improve the executionability of the already existing ban on road transport, in particular..." – No, that was the wrong point now. Sorry! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong speech, not wrong point!]] I should have read (a) "(a) under what conditions the German model of combating drugs in road transport" – and now in brackets: – "(proof of drug use as a criterion rather than evidence of impairment)". That's exactly what it's all about. It's the government fractions. That means simply and simply that this has nothing to do with drugs in road transport – unfortunately, nothing to do with it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You only need to deal with experts. You can take all medical knowledge to hand. This clearly shows that there is a proof period of several weeks – three to four weeks – in the field of cannabis in particular; so long can you prove cannabis in the body. The working time takes a few hours. That means that this has nothing to do with road safety at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Knows well!]] That is why I am now a little surprised that you are carrying this request so much, because that is exactly the point: On the one hand, it is about criminalisation, and on the other hand, there are massive social problems. A person who is deprived of the licence has massive problems in this society, including in terms of work, especially if he lives in less-traffic areas. To do so now, if someone might even say very consciously: okay, road traffic is something quite different, that is not in question at all, even with alcohol – well, but I would have expected that this separation from your group will be taken seriously. That's why I'm a little surprised about it now. We have seen the behaviour of colleagues from the government groups in the main committee when it came to the regulation on the limits. All the experts meant something else. We were still on one side together. I therefore hope, at least, that if you have an initiative proposal, this will be taken into account once again and that such a scheme, which concerns only criminalisation and not road safety, will not be accepted here.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25182	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 496 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. This draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 490 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. ( E. 62.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger and others on a consistent package against addictions, including alcohol in road transport. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 494 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 63.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 495 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. 18. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 19. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the Resolution 204/A (E) by Dr Evelin Lichtenbergerer and comrades on the rescue of the Austrian secondary railways (492) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution 248/A (E) by Mrs Evelin Lichtenberger and others on additional charges for the secondary railways (493)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25332	We now come to points 18 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Lichtenberger spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25361	Ladies and gentlemen! The very late-to-negotiation issue is one on which all the political groups in the House are committed, at least in the sense that they are saying: It is important to maintain mobility in the regions. However, a certain difference is already beginning to appear, a difference in that, in my view, the government fractions are too fast on some sideways that you give up and say: This runway doesn't run out, there are too few people inside, so we lock them up or maybe replace them with a bus, which might also be on a completely different route. [[Abg. Wattaul: Why do we demonstrate against a railway line...?]] In my opinion, it would be the reasonable procedure in this direction – and in fact there would have to be a broad agreement – that, before a desire for an attitude is followed, one should check whether an attraction of this route is targeted, meaningful and possible. Only then – and exclusively then! – if there is no way to do so, you can talk about a replacement with other transports. It's too fast for me to just say: Today, "spirits" travel through the country, so we just lock them up. These "spiritive trains" are very often empty because they are in the wrong time, because the transport policy frameworks are not in agreement and the like. Sometimes there is a very small measure to improve the network effect for the railway and to increase the attraction of an off-road train. Sometimes it would also be enough – and one of my requests has referred to it – to take back the additional and increased charges that are being incurred here, precisely because these trains signal a high social interest, namely ensuring mobility in the regions. I think that's very central. We already have the Federal Railway's attitude wish not only on the secondary tracks, but also on the main tracks. This concerns, for example, the dramatic reduction of a railway link between North Tyrol and East Tyrol in Tyrol. I think this is a disaster for many people, especially students or apprentices who have to travel to Innsbruck, because there are only two pairs of trains to travel on this route. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this – and I have repeatedly tried to point it out with requests – should focus on the fact that rail connections, as well as public transport in the regions as a whole, are more important and more than important. The government parties have tabled a resolution, a request for our requests, which is correct in many points from the intention. I have criticized him in committee because he has gone too far in one point. This should only ensure the maintenance of a secondary runway until a tender procedure has been initiated. I think it is necessary to secure them until all of this is completed, otherwise the chaos will break out on these routes and cause damage that can no longer be remedied. But I was able to convince myself that there was still some seriousness behind it. In the light of all the taxes – and because the rescue of the secondary roads is so important to me – we will also support this request from the government groups. However, we will take a very close look at how this will be implemented and whether it will finally succeed in giving the ÖBB leadership and the ÖBB policy a new face when it comes to the secondary lanes in order to finally require them to be active in the area and thus ensure fair mobility for those people who do not have a car – either no more or no more – or those who want to choose mobility from time to time between public transport and their own car. Ladies and gentlemen! This request, which you have tabled – I hope he is serious to you; at times I would almost doubt it because of your contributions to the debate – is more than necessary to maintain social justice for the regions, which many cities, large cities among you may take far too little notice in their dramatic situation. Make sure – and all of us in common – that this request is implemented! Otherwise it will soon be out and over with a substantial part of transport policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25405	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25426	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! By-cars have also played a big role for us for a long time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How about the additional references as a MP, as a councillor, as an official?]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are playing a side role at best. I'll prove it to you right away. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much do you have there?]] In five minutes' speaking time, Mr Westenthaler, to say what happened in the first hundred days of the new activity of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, that is impossible because the word "nothing" has been said in a second! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the referee law?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser:... Women's hostility?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you explaining your terms of reference?]] Gentlemen from the government side! In five minutes of speaking time to say what happened in these hundred days positive is just as a thing of impossibility. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much do you spend in the month as a Member of Parliament, 170 000 or 180 000?]] That is not enough time for me, ladies and gentlemen. If the black and blue government had continued the successful transport policy of the Social Democratic Transport Ministers, you, Mrs Bundesminister, would have had a lot to say at your 100-day press conference. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] So, among other things, your statements have limited themselves to saying how evil the men in your ministry are to you and how badly you are treated. Do the government's presentatives look like that? I wonder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: You are a failure party!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Their exaggeration can no longer be overlooked and can no longer be hidden. Why did you actually have an appointment with ÖBB Director-General Draxler – and now I come to my topic by-cars, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Haigermoser: But time will come!]] They have allowed valuable time to pass. The closure of the threatened secondary railways is imminent. This is particularly dramatic for my federal state because in June, perhaps nine secondary trains will no longer be on the timetable. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 170,000 S!]] A short time comparison: Supervisory Board shall be completed; the tendering period for the Board of Directors of the ÖBB shall be: 31. March ; then I continue to calculate: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 170,000 S a month!]] April, May, and in June we have the closure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... additional salaries?]] Do we want this, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... as a councillor!]] How should a solution be reached by June when staff decisions are taken? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many additional salaries does Mrs. Deputies cash for the "little man"?]] Especially in the economically weakest regions, Mr Westenthaler [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much do you have as a councillor, MP...?]] The people who live there are indeed exposed by the Federal Minister, following the word, to train by train harder conditions, but not only in relation to the secondary trains. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where are you a councillor?]] More stringent conditions are also experienced by social assistance beneficiaries and pensioners. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where are you a councillor?]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister would have had the duty... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... do you deserve as a councillor?]] [[Further calls.]] You're nervous! I understand, you're very nervous. But listen to me! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where are you a councillor?]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] There are still some things to say. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are an abcassier! A shameless excavator!]] More stringent conditions are also experienced by the minimum pensioners and also by the social assistance beneficiaries. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You cash three salaries...!]] The Federal Minister has failed to conclude contracts with Deutsche Telekom for the release of telephone charges for these people. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Okay, now there's one – not with the other operators, just with Deutsche Telekom. The administration of this has cost a lot of money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where are you a councillor?]] [[Further calls.]] Mrs Forstinger's transport policy is not only anti-economic, but it is highly anti-human, ladies and gentlemen. Above all, it is one of: She's embarrassing, she's pretty embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] Listen to why she's embarrassing! [[Call: We don't want to listen]] I feel really disturbed in my speech. Excuse me, it's crazy loud! – Mr President, I would like to say: [[Prolonged calls.]] I don't feel disturbed. - Good. [[Calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Is it really true that the Federal Minister wanted to shine in her balance sheet with the numbering decree? That's what happened in the "NEWS". [[Prolonged calls.]] - You don't hear me when you scream in between. That's where I have to be louder, you know! [[Abg. May. Trattner: The Greatest Privilegian Rider...!]] Perhaps the motto of the Federal Minister was: What costs nothing is worth nothing; I have a 20-billion decree, we're going through it! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have three salaries!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Three salaries!]] – Is that the contribution to the savings programme? I don't know. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You deserve more than the Gusenbauer! More than the Kostelka!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Three salaries!]] After an anti-economic, anti-human, embarrassing, also added: I'm not in a hurry. – The Federal Minister has no hurry at all: Reorganisation of the toll system, overall transport concept, accused three heads of state of "treason to Austria". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... the worst privilege case!]] [[Further calls.]] What about the aviation sector? – There is no section head, there is no aviation general director. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandal!]] What happened to AUA's land rights in Japan? There have been failures. They're economically hostile, millions are gone. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandal about what you're taking as a representative of the "little man"! 170,000 s each month!]] What about the Sendmasten regulation? What about concepts for road, rail, air and shipping? - (continuous calls.) We wait and wait. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] It was much well prepared, but nothing was implemented. The Federal Minister works and works overshadowed, tired and unconstitutional. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] We have the commitment of the Federal Minister to the importance of the secondary railways; she has also said that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many references do you have?]] Our confession to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, is not there. But at least confess to your minister and agree to our request! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26043	The next speaker was Mr Fink. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26064	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, I very much agree with your argument and your will – I do not need to add anything there –: Before we set up a sideway somewhere, we should really try everything to get it, and do everything we can to attract it. There's no difference between us, I think. But at Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, I am surprised that she says: The secondary trains have played a major role for them or for the Social Democrats for a long time. – Since when does this play a major role for you? I think it's been a year! They have had time for 50 years to attract these sideways. What did you do? – Nothing you have done in this area! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But now to come here and lament that nothing has happened and that we have done nothing: That's not likely to happen to the barrel. That's really unlikely! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They also forget what the ÖBB Director-General said, although he was banned from speaking; he was closed. He said what the sideways cost: They cost 2 billion schilling a year. Please, there's something we can do! Overall, they generate... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr. Edler, are you railways? – I would then recommend the following, Mr Edler: [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Do you know what we're doing so we can get these sideways? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Haven't seen a train for a long time!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's the Lokführer!]] Let us talk about the pensions of the railways! Let's see that we're bringing something together there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let us try to raise the retirement age to 56.5 years or 61.5 years! Then we can get these sideways at any time. So don't talk like that, but do something; help us get these sideways! Because I don't have much time to speak, I'd like to finish. – A total loss of 1.2 billion schilling will be generated with the sideways. [[Abg. Edler: What are you doing?]] 11 million people use these sideways. If I calculate that, that means: If you bring 100 s per person, they could use another public transport. That means you can think of something else, whether it's a taxi or a bus. If only commuters use the sideways, we could provide 25 000 S per year to the Pendler. I ask you: Let's do something so we can get the sideways!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26163	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Weinmeier to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26185	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you make it very easy: They simply banish the last 30 years of socialist transport policy. And in doing so, you forget quite clearly: There are only socialist transport ministers responsible for the failures in the secondary railways, the hunger of the secondary railways. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that the ÖBB intends to take out of the traffic some of the railway tracks with the new timetable in July. In principle, it should be noted that the ÖBB was legally commissioned and obliged to operate the Austrian Federal Railways according to commercial principles. To this end, they were obliged by the legislator. – This is the one side you need to take note of. The other side is that there are also important regional interests, economic interests, tourism and transport policy interests. In this case, it is not possible to look at everything from the purely economic point of view. There are railways such as the Mariazeller Bahn, which belongs to the identity of an entire valley and a whole region, which is a cultural property. I therefore propose that the Mariazeller Bahn be declared an Austrian cultural heritage. [[Abg. Eder: Rosenstingl wanted to buy them...!]] [[Abg.And you have always believed that it belongs to you.]] Today's proposal will help to create the fastest framework for privatising the secondary railways, so that it does not remain an exception, for example, to what has happened in the off-road railway. There, for the first time in the Second Republic, a secondary railway line, which was set up by the ÖBB, has now been taken over by a private operator. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It shall require a five-year guarantee for all secondary trains. – Mrs Colleague, this would be an expensive fun, because then the federal government would have to pay everything for five years, although the countries are currently receiving 50 bulkes per litre of petrol for the maintenance and for the purpose of local transport. In addition, the ÖBB would not at all have stopped doing something in the off-roads, and they could continue to "drive" as before. – This request should therefore be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! You can certainly not shave the problem over a comb. There are some secondary railways on which no passenger transport has taken place for several years at all, but only temporarily a freight transport. The recruitment of individual routes is therefore certainly not contrary to an environmental transport policy. Finally, I would like to say: The federal government has not evaded its responsibility in the question of the secondary railways. High funding – up to 80 percent – is guaranteed for infrastructure. Now one more word on the request of the government parties: This is really a milestone in the issue of transport policy and in relation to the secondary roads. Competition is finally to be created so that private operators are not deterred, but are interested in the takeover of secondary railways. The purpose of the ÖBB is to ensure that the operation is maintained until there is a continuation by another operator. It is also intended to prevent what is happening now: that the ÖBB is ruining the plants by hunger. Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution represents a milestone in transport policy. I therefore hope that you will all agree to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26244	The next speaker was Mr Edler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26292	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Forstinger certainly has her difficulties. But if you have heard the discussion from their coalition partner ÖVP, Mr Fink, you are a clot on the leg of this transport policy in Austrian transport policy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who?]] [[Further calls.]] What you have said about the secondary railways – that there is something to do there that the pension rights of the railways are to blame – is a social-political disgrace from a member of a Christian union! That's a shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have repeatedly talked about the sideways. I hope we finally bring something positive together. We have often implemented joint projects in recent years and decades, especially – I emphasize – with the state of Lower Austria. [[Abg. Fink: 50 years!]] As a trade union official, I had the honour of providing this accompanying information in the regions as well. The current director Stindl was representative of Pröll. We managed to restore the railway to life in the wine district, and the train was also accepted. [[Abg. Wattaul: Draxler says something else!]] In summary, this means: If we want to do so together, it is also really possible to achieve greater traffic performance there. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Who let them die?]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They have often failed in the last few weeks in transport policy. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Well, that's it!]] You have to answer that politically yourself. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Go, stop!]] If that had happened in another country, every minister, every minister, on the basis of this failure, would resign. [[Abg. May. Fillinger: There will be red...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That was really a scandal as to what you did, as heads of state of the Eastern Region, and of various political parties, thought that the infrastructure was absolutely expanding. [[Call to the liberals: Don't be ridiculous!]] [[Interim remark by Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Your own failures!]] And what are you doing, Mrs. Federal Minister? – They call it "Austrian treason." This is a political scandal, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: The union is a scandal in the railway!]] You said in the first debate in the Transport Committee that you will examine all the projects in a practical way, including the question of reorientation of the Bundesbahn. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You were 30 years...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] You then went to the public that your philosophy is the separation. No one prescribes this, not the EU! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who is your tailor?]] All the countries that have done this – especially the United Kingdom – have failed. We can see that every day in British transport policy, what happens there. You start with the decomposition, with the discoloration – I say consciously: with the recoloration – of the Supervisory Board of the ÖBB, and you will certainly continue this with the Executive Board. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: There are good professionals in there!]] Now it is very interesting that you take in especially those people who are actually lobbyists of car traffic, or the former Director General of the Deutsche Bundesbahn, who has failed there. That's your thing! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Edler! ... is too long!]] Especially a man is interesting there: Your office manager Hans-Jürgen Miko. – If you look at where this Lord came from and what he did where he was economically active – at Heraklith Hatschek – this is very interesting. You should ask what happened there. [[Abg. Wattaul: As a trade unionist...!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and counter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You know that, and you have to answer it yourself. It is really a scandal that such people will be sent to the Supervisory Board of the ÖBB. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have also, at present, failed to enforce the Minister of Finance. 1 billion Schilling less for the infrastructure of ÖBB 2002. For Community transport – this is also the postal sector – once again 1 billion less schilling. Where did you get through? Mrs. Federal Minister! They have failed in these decisions. They have "luggered" billions of taxpayers' money – under quotations – when they are resettled and prevented projects instead of implementing them. The money's lost! They have not implemented the projects, and this is very unfortunate for the taxpayer. Mrs. Federal Minister! Normally you have to draw the political consequences yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26596	Word reported... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26626	Mr President. Even if you do not like some of the statements, I would nevertheless ask you to ensure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the deliberations of the National Council can be carried out in all order and without disturbance to the speaker. I don't have the impression that you really tried to do this in the last two speeches.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26671	Mr. Dr. Kostelka! I am of the opinion that when the speakers are very well heard by their voice, their statement and their superiority, one can ultimately close to the sound of the speakers and the volume of the speakers to the volume of the calls. [[Abg. Binder: This is your job!]] I didn't feel that both speakers needed support from me. But I'm still happy to accept your suggestion. [[Abg. Grabner: (in the direction of President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn) He has no feeling at all!]] Mrs. Forstinger has spoken. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Think of the "consumer"!]] I call Mrs Forstinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26747	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for your many advices and could give it back with the question why you did not ask yourself earlier. But I would rather focus on the subject that is being discussed – the question of the secondary lanes – and I am also pleased that it is a concern for many, actually for everyone here. I said from the beginning: Before the public service stations are stopped by the ÖBB, all possibilities should be used to continue the off-roads through countries, private or other interested parties. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My aim is to establish a common funding of federal, state and local authorities for tourism – and today a very important secondary railway has already been addressed, which should be used for tourist purposes – but also to put on the legs and maintain the operation in a structurally indispensable way. You also know that there is already a call for proposals in this area. I should also like to point out that, for the first time in the Second Republic, a successor operation has been possible for a few weeks on the line set by the ÖBB in rail passenger transport. I am very pleased that Deutsche Bahn AG has taken up this business in an extraterrestrial way, and I am particularly pleased that a second example in the country of Salzburg can be realized very soon in a project with Mrs. Landesrat Burgstaller. The framework conditions for competition on the rails have also been established. I can still remember the discussions on the liberalisation of the rails and the opening up; it has already been discussed today. They're always talking about the "destruction" of a company. In reality, it is about finally providing the infrastructure and also enabling private individuals to provide this service so that the infrastructure can be used and the goods put on the rails. I do not believe that the transport policy of the past – the prevention and prevention of or also the passive approach "rail instead of traffic blinds" – has yielded. The fact is, we're actually suffocating in traffic. We also have to do something about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Public service and private rail promotion have been addressed. In the future, the funding mechanisms will be adapted accordingly so as to apply as in the case of the ÖBB. As regards the promotion of infrastructure, you are aware of the study prepared for private railways in order to aim at the most objective and comparable support systems to ÖBB. It was not surprising that much was also discussed about this in recent days by my strong announcement towards the side-cars. I have to tell you: I still have no request for which trains will be stopped. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Strong Ansage"!]] All options are examined before. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: She said "strong announcement"!]] It is examined which other modes of transport can provide the same benefit for the customer. Here, too, we can discuss the subject of transport. There have been many investments in earlier times through different tariffs, but also due to overlaps in the timetables, which have not benefited the customer. For the first time, a honeycomb system has been introduced in Austria, including the school-free journeys. Then it will also be possible that the money we have from the public services will benefit those who need it – and these are the customers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In your applications, the talk is always about "cut" means. I would like to stress once again that it is wrong that the funds for transport associations have been cut by 100 million schilling. The federal government is also very close to the legal obligation in public passenger transport, and 80 million schilling for the countries as well as 20 million schilling for the cities have been provided as an additional order promotion. The questions "Postbus AG" and "balance payments" have also been discussed. I can tell you that negotiations are currently taking place on the fact that EU-compatible rules for disbursement are also being found here. In other words, there are no budgetary problems in view of the massive increase in the budget. 70 percent of the budget for the transport sector has been increased. The increases in tariffs made by the transport companies therefore have nothing to do with the budgetary reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26818	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26839	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Eder, it's embarrassing, but I have to come back to your speech again. I would just like to point out two points which represent the serious failure of the socialist ministers. Just think of the uniform federal road map: ten years of discussion! Or the "Master Plan" – can you tell me what was implemented by the "Master Plan"? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nothing!]] In the meantime I have been here in the House for six years, but I can't remember that even one point would have been implemented. Mrs. Forstinger! I thank you for the commitment in your speech to the maintenance of the Mariazeller Bahn – the Mariazeller Bahn is very important for tourism transport – but above all for the maintenance of the Mariazeller Bahn until a new operator is found. – A warm thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26875	The next speaker was Mr Heinzl. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26896	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Minister! High house! "As long as I am a transport minister, the Mariazeller Bahn will not be stopped", these were the words of Federal Minister Schmid during a discussion evening in Kirchberg on the Pielach in September 2000. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Schmid is no longer a minister of transport, he retired from his pension after ten months of work as a minister. The future of the Mariazeller Bahn is still not secured, and with that of the Mariazeller Bahn also the future of many other secondary trains in Lower Austria. Mariazeller Bahn is the lifeline of Zig thousands of people from the Lower Austrian capital of St. Pölten to Mariazell in Styria, which has already been said a few times: The last narrow-track mountain railway in Central Europe must also be maintained as a tourist attraction. The Mariazeller Railway is viable, and it is now simply about the political will to actually preserve this railway. The ÖBB should remain the owner of this railway. In any case, the ÖBB must hold the majority of a possible operating company with a minimum of 51 percent. That's my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Republic adopts itself out of responsibility for public transport, it is only a matter of time until private railway operators employ themselves as public support. Almost in the month rhythm, the most serious train accidents occur in England on the privatized railways. The private individuals are pursuing total profit maximisation and are not willing to invest in security technology. That's why 80 percent of the population of England now want the railway to relocate to state property. [[Abg. Gaugg: Friendship, comrade! We have to get back!]] The privatisation of the railway is the wrong way. – This is not a way back, but a way forward if the railway remains in public ownership. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] High house! Minister! Austria threatens to move to the slow-moving station of the trans-European rail network. Instead of expanding infrastructure and promoting investment in the future, for decades prepared projects that have already been disputed will be discontinued. The construction stop of the St. Pölten freight train, imposed by your predecessor, has been confirmed by you, Mrs. Minister, once again. As one of the first railway projects to have a positive environmental impact assessment, freight transport is one of the most important sub-objects in the development of the West Railway to the high-performance railway. One billion schillings have been installed so far. Minister! They obviously do not care about compliance with the contracts. In November last year, I sent a parliamentary question to you whether at least the noise protection measures planned during the construction of the St. Pölten freight transport system, together with the noise protection for the West motorway in the area of the capital of St. Pölten, are being implemented. In this answer, you, Mrs. Minister, said that the noise protection project for the south of St. Pölten will not be processed until you have decided what will happen to the freight transport of St. Pölten. – I mean: This is the summit of superiority! At the same time, Mrs. Minister, you have been presented with your party friends at an event during the St. Pöltner municipal election campaign as the noise protection assistant of the affected population. – This revelation of duality, as I believe, fits very well with the statement of Mrs Vice-Chancellor, whom you, Mrs. Minister, called "the most liberal of all"! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For years the attraction and modernisation of the St. Pöltner main station has been considered a decided thing, because this is necessary. There are no lifts there, no escalators, no disabled facilities. The main station of St. Pölten is more than customer-enemy! Above all, Mrs. Minister, in the area of the St. Pölten station, noise protection measures are necessary to protect the population and prevent you from attracting the station! Minister! Setting up railway lines and construction stops for railway expansions is a brutal attack on our environment, on the safety of the population and also on the waste of popular wealth! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Setting and stopping is not a high political art. Minister! They are now making a name for themselves as a Sargnagel of the quality of life of the Austrian population and in particular the population of the Lower Austrian Central Area! Her balance sheet as an infrastructure minister is standstill – to the detriment of the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26965	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26986	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A speech by Mr Weinmeier and the speech by Mrs Minister motivate me to say a few short sentences. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go!]] If I listen to you and have to realize from it that you believe that privatisation alone is already the rescue of the secondary lanes, then I have to tell you that I cannot support your approaches, because then we go the English way that we have no sideways and no structures at all, or that those who remain are of a terrible quality, so that the risk of accident increases further. – The public hand must define what she wants, and that is your job now, Mrs Minister! Besides, I have to tell you: In the first three months in which you were in office, you have not given me much confidence that you will really get these calls in this sense. I recall the questions that have yet to be resolved, especially in the Telekom area: In this context, the example of fee subsidies in particular makes very thoughtful, because in this telephonic allowance regulation – as it is so well called – it would have been quite possible for those eligible disabled people who have not had a chance so far, because they have chosen another operator to make the regulation earlier. However, they have really waited until the very last moment, instead of making this justice in time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! You have a mountain of work ahead of you in a number of areas. This concerns European transport policy, and I believe that your statement that a railway running beyond the borders of Austria is equal to "land betrayal" is not necessarily productive when discussing European networks and better solutions in this area. Mrs. Minister! The first three months were certainly not easy. You didn't really take over an orderly ministry. But you have not yet proved that you are riding this horse. I hope you'll be in the saddle soon! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27030	Mrs Bures has spoken. Your speaking time will be limited to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27048	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Forstinger, you could now ask the question: How are you? How do you feel in your new function and in your new task that you have taken over, according to the following headlines: "Forstinger without concepts", "Forstinger: A disappointment, "Chaos in the Ministry of Infrastructure"? How are you doing, Mrs. Federal Minister? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the 50 000 S additional income? How are you?]] According to today's "Kurier", the suspicion of a disease in the ministries of this federal government seems to be starting. It is here that it is an infection and that it appears that an unknown virus in the ministries of this Federal Government is grassing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You cost 50 000 S in addition! Who's paying for it?]] There must be some infectious disease, which causes regulations to be either not signed correctly or at the wrong time. – The remark "not correctly signed" concerns you, namely the telephone numbering regulation, and the comment "at the wrong time" is about the actually tragic spectacle of the introduction of these cruel ambulance charges, from which you have not even excluded children. That's the sad acting! And the "Kurier" of tomorrow or today already entitled that this must be a disease in the ministries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This article in the "Kurier" also states that this disease has a name. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes! The disease's called red run!]] It is called "VSE", which means "regulatory insanity", which exists in your ministries. Mrs. Federal Minister! Is this your "spoken shoe decree" or is it your clothing regulations which you, of course, have adopted for women? Is this the insanity of the regulation or this disease, which, above all in your ministry, is under your responsibility? Or is it the supervision of the employees you have now ordered in a case of slight persecution that obviously reigns? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Or is the disease in it – Mrs Federal Minister, I would ask you for information about this, because I have read it in a daily newspaper! – that you have invited an employee who has accompanied you on a trip abroad to go ten steps behind you and carry the suitcase and not to roll it. – Is this your leadership style, or is it a disease that prevails in this ministry? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! In these unfortunately more than 100 days – I have believed that at some point you too will really have an official understanding worthy of a minister! – you have put down an inferior, absurd, authoritarian leadership style, and this has shown that you have major deficits, especially with regard to social competence and dealing with people! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What hate do you actually drive?]] This also concerns the FPÖ as a whole, and you, Mr Westenthaler, are in favour of all of you in terms of social deficits in dealing with people! [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] The problem, however, is – and this affects all Austrians – that you have also shown a great shortage of expertise in recent days! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I would like to recall once again the chaos of the phone number regulation: First you didn't know, then you knew it, then an official was guilty. Only never take responsibility; there is always anyone else, always the "dark power" in the background! - I know! [[Abg. May. Trattner: You fit exactly to the state of your party!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] For the gentlemen of the FPÖ, it is always very nice when a colleague, a woman, speaks, of course, that makes you particularly nervous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: What did you give the colleague?]] Mrs. Forstinger, you come from the social environment of the paper industry, and you have a supporter – he now sits above you – who comes from the paper industry. And this random phone number regulation would have caused an estimated order volume of around 3 billion schilling for the paper industry, because it would have needed additional forms and – due to new telephone numbers – new letter paper and new business cards! If today's in the paper says: "Unfortunately disappointed about Forstinger," I think, above all, the paper industry princehorn has been disappointed since you withdrew this regulation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In order not to put anything bad on you now, but to assume that you, Mrs Minister, really did not read it and just sign things you do not read, I would like to remind you that there has been a point in this regulation that is very important to people, namely the question of how much they have to pay for the phone at the moment. – The following can be said: You're paying too much right now! In this telephone number regulation, there was, inter alia, a regulation concerning a second-specific billing of phone fees. That means to everyone – but I know that you don't care, money doesn't matter to most of you, and the "little man" and the "little people" have already betrayed you! – 20 percent less phone charges. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] That's a problem for many, and it's also a problem for many that you're tough. You're in traffic policy, and you're also in trouble where people need help, for example, in the form of a flat-rate free phone! This is about 200 to 230 S per month. People who earn under 8 000 s are entitled to this basic exemption. [[Abg. Ing Westenthaler: How much do you deserve?]] But you don't get them because you're spotty and because you're not able to make sure in the ministry that those people who have the lowest incomes also have the opportunity to telephone without this being a financial problem for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is hardly any subject on which we are not talking about what has been missing in the past, in the last 30 years. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I cannot remember that the question of EU enlargement has been in the room for 30 years. However, it is up to us today to consider transport concepts which make it possible for no transport chaos in Austria to occur when this enlargement of the EU is due to occur! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! There's no concept for that! You didn't do anything about it, and not just that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Does that not have anything to do with failure? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] There was an informal meeting of the transport ministers in Sweden, which is precisely about this question. Mrs. Federal Minister! Where were you? Were you at Villacher Fasching? [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is really last-class!]] Or where were you? At least you weren't there, and the interests of Austria were not represented there either, and that's your failure, and you can't talk out there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Nor does it have anything to do with past transport policy that you are still unable to introduce 3.5 billion schilling of additional revenue in the form of the truck toll! That's your failure, and you can't talk to anyone! And what about the Brenner-Tout problem? What did you do, Mrs. Federal Minister? – What you do means more trucks on the roads and less on the rail. These are your failures that you have to answer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have a shortage of expertise! You have deficits in social intelligence! I would therefore urge you to withdraw from this House on its own initiative and on a voluntary basis. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] But their insight has obviously not been enough in the last few days. That's why I'm calling for it. Again on: Go inside! I ask you: How are you really doing? And I propose the following resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27383	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Doris Bures, Mr Eder, Mr Kostelka is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27413	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bures, I'm "gratulating" You are very cordial about the really last-class appearance you performed here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Out of your mouth is really white hate! But I have a direct understanding of this, because the hatred comes that you will receive only 50 000 S grant for your function and that is half of what your party president Gusenbauer gets! This misunderstanding is bothering you, and that is going to happen again and again with you! That's the envy complex in a party. You'll get 50,000 s per month for this last-class show – and that in a party that has a minus of 350 million schilling in the cash register! This must be broken on the tongue, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] It is no wonder, then, that the quality of such appearances is not better! As a matter of fact, this appearance of Mr SPÖ-Federal Managing Director goes seamlessly into the number of embarrassments and pans such as this really embarrassing appearance in a misguided emergency a few weeks ago, where you have applied for a tax increase instead of a tax reduction! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You are a symbol of the turn: A turning neck!]] That's how you sit down. Your pans continue, ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry I have to tell you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: This is unheard of!]] No, that's not unheard of! It's just embarrassing and terrifying! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot address everything because of my short speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: The same methods as Pumberger!]] But I would like to say that the embarrassments are so little in mind that Mrs Bures does not even stop cutting her own people into the pan! It was the speech that the Federal Minister is now alleged to be attacking an official! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Which officials does she apply to?]] Mr President, I should like to thank I'd like to tell you something or keep something under your nose! ==References====External links==* Official website Feber. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Is this a brother of Firlinger?]] It also says there – I quote –: "The little power... of Hermann Weber was created by Caspar One is limited to the purely technical allocation of frequencies of all kinds. Now – that was already planned under One – he also has to hand over the frequency management to Telekom Control GesmbH. ‘Sector Weber is a slothole’, which you can’t let out of your eyes, should have said once!’ [[Aha-noise with the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You accuse Mrs. Forstinger of something, and your own minister makes such statements! That really is the summit! If I had such a past as a minister, Mr. Federal Minister out of service Caspar One, I would wish in your own sense and for your own protection that you would have gone to Mrs Bures and said: Be careful, Mrs. Colleague, don't let anything in! But we know this bitch! There's a system behind that! But I also say: I'm far from saying that the civil service is doing a bad job. That's not the case! I expressly emphasize this! But in this ministry one must make order with this socialist past once. It has to be aired through, and the Federal Minister is doing that, and because you have nothing to do with it, and because that is also happening to people and because the party apparathiks are no longer sitting in the supervisory councils, you are so upset that you get to this ridiculous means, that is to say, an unfortunate mistrust request at 1.35 a.m. in the early days! That's new! But that's your style, and I'm "gratulating" you very much! Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! That was embarrassing! You've seen that – I think –! Michael Häupl has been sent to you anyway: Don't do that! He is in favour of the Federal Minister's continuing office. But you have become so insidious of this mistrust request that you have now experienced this embarrassment, and I wish you a lot of pleasure in other such actions! Make three more requests for distrust! They won't get through – just like Böhmdorfer! I wish you every success in such further unsuccessful actions!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27536	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please start playing the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27561	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr. Klubobmann! Mr Firlinger has just said in his speech that I would have said that section head Weber is a "slot-hole" and needs constant observation. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He didn't claim that!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'm actually correcting: Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, Mr Firlinger, has only read the paper, and he has still read it properly. But then he also said something himself, and this fact claim is wrong. I never said anything like that! By the way: If you already need my as a witness to defend this minister, then luck up!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27615	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27637	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! What does the name Lanc tell you? What does the name "Bübleis" tell you? What are the names of Strings, Climate, Scholten and One, Mrs Bures? [[Abg. Neighbors: Are you sure you have something to say? Or are you just pudding?]] What do the names of all these ministers of the railways say to you in connection with transport policy and with the expansion of the railways in Austria? – These names don't tell you anything, just like me! There is no performance in terms of railway policy behind that name! [[Abg. Bures: Do you have anything to say? Or are you just pudding?]] That is why, wife highly paid Federal Managing Director Bures, the appearance of your mayor Häupl, the appearance of the head of state Pröll and the appearance of socialist head of state Nießl were not really successful! It is not possible to make a 100-day term of office responsible for the numerous failures of all these social-democratic transport ministers, a whole social-democratic transport ministry! [[Calls of the Abg. Bures.]] I will tell you, Mrs Bures, by the example of the newly caught red captain Nießl, how important the secondary railways are, and you, this three-time worker of public funds, have also said that these secondary trains have always been of great importance to the Social Democrats! [[Calls of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Burgenland alone, there are 50 million schillings from the MOST, which were even intended for a long time to be invested in local transport. To this day, there is a social democratic ruling... [[Lively calls of Deputies Bures, Heinisch-Hosek and Mag. Worm.]] It's incredible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Schieder! We know why we don't talk to these ladies, don't we? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr. Schieder! We cannot talk about it without a microphone we would not be heard and we would not speak, Mr Arbitrator. That is why I understand that we are so in agreement! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] But you should also tell them, Mr. Arbitrator. [[Congratulations and bravo reputation with the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now back to your head of state, Niessl. [[Abg. Bures: Take your hand out of your pants bag! Then make it easier for you to talk!]] Niessl goes here and describes unfrozen failures in transport policy as a liberal, although these are homemade social democratic failures. [[Abg. Neighbors: Division VI/6!]] He has not invested any schilling, although 50 million schilling would have been present. These 50 million schillings were invested in bus lines such as Südburg and Dr. Richard, my dear lady from Social Democracy, Mrs Bures! [[Calls of the Abg. Bures.]] A second example: As in seven to eight other budgets, this budget provides for an amount of around 10 million Schilling for the extension of the South-Borderland railway. To sum up, it was 70 to 80 million schilling that this head of state and his predecessor Stix could have redeemed if they had signed the co-financing agreement! – Neither Stix was willing to sign this co-financing agreement, nor the new head of state Nießl is willing to sign this co-financing application! [[Abg. Bures: Hand in the pants bag!]] Dear Mrs Bures! If the Social Democrats had taken seriously what they called for from this minister, we could have invested 150 million Schilling alone in the maintenance of the secondary railways in the south of Burgenland! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But that is so typical of this dual nature of social democracy: You go to Vienna and ask what you have failed to do in your own country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Their request for distrust would be justified, he would be directed against Mr Stix, Mr Nießl or Mr Häupl, or he would have at that time directed against Mr. Lanc, Mr. Böbleis, Mr. Strings, Mr. Klima, Mr. Scholten. [[Calls of the Abg. Bures.]] That would have justified distrust! [[Calls of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] With this Federal Minister, trust is justified, my brother-in-law of the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27812	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27837	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Schweitzer! [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I'm asking for your attention! They were just so kind to read the names of different people who have held functions in the past, and they also referred to Mr Übleis several times as the former Minister of Transport. Deputies! You should get in touch before you talk here! Bübleis was never Minister of Transport and is therefore not responsible for the things you accuse him! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I said: Railway ministers!]] – Trust in you is also not justified!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27884	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27903	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a little a pity that the four ladies who have now stood up in front of me have disappeared! You reminded me a little of the Erinnys from the Greek tragedy! I would rather save myself other literary comparisons now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I thought of a lot more. I would have had some associations that would now be on my tongue, but which I would rather not express. Of course, I also understand certain feelings of frustration that exist on the side of the social-democratic opposition: After 30 years of loss of power, it is difficult to take on the efforts of opposition work, and it is also difficult to formulate applications and take similar obstacles that must be overcome in the opposition. And you also have to accept the fact that you have planned a beautiful staging here today and now nobody wants to listen to you anymore, no public and no media are there and so on. Of course it's not so much fun anymore! I understand! I would like to say something about the content, because I actually find it to be extremely serious in some way, what has happened here in today's debate in connection with the secondary railways. – You criticize a minister who is in office for exactly three months and accuse her of the destruction of the Austrian secondary railways – and this, although your group has for 30 years put the transport ministers in that country who have done everything to financially starve these secondary trains and who have not touched a finger to do something to rescue even a single secondary railway in Austria! This government will ensure that there is a replacement traffic where the secondary trains in this form are no longer financially portable, so that there is no disadvantage for the population in this area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They are the party whose transport ministers were responsible for the fact that the deficit of the Austrian Federal Railways not only threatened the company sustainably and threatened jobs to a large extent, but also seriously burdened the overall budget situation of Austria over decades. To this day we pay for the debt of the ÖBB! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] It is this federal government, which ensures a corresponding future orientation for this company through a proper corporate structure, through a separation in rail and sales. – I'm sorry you didn't bring that together, but that's it. The same applies to the truck toll. You've been doctoring this matter for two years, and you haven't done it. – This federal government has recently ensured that there will be an electronic, modern technology-based system. For 30 years they of SPÖ have made a policy in the transport sector, which consisted in the fact that only the party book for the occupation of functions in key infrastructure areas was decisive. [[Abg. Oellinger: You are not a Minister of Transport! Why don't you let the Minister of Transport talk?]] If I look at the occupation of the ÖBB Supervisory Boards over the last decades, I can only follow the words of Mr Edler, who has spoken of a "recoloration" here, if you can't imagine anything else, Mr Edler! The fact that the qualification that someone brings is crucial to such a Supervisory Board occupation cannot be imagined because it has never played a role in you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] The new ÖBB Supervisory Board consists of members, and especially members, of whom no only one is located in the vicinity of any party, but these are excellently qualified personalities. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bures: The brother of the wife Povysil!]] This has also been presented in the media presentation accordingly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They are responsible for the fact that Austria has finally become a European research and development policy. – It is this federal government, which, through an additional investment volume of 10 billion Schilling, ensures that research and development in Austria are not only a political priority, but also a very important contribution to job creation and training for our youth as well as to the security of locations for businesses in this country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! Finally, I would like to say the following to you about the SPÖ – no matter who will hold this ministry or hold it in the future and whatever party it will belong – every right to criticise transport ministers is lost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who determines that?]] It was your party, it was your transport ministers who brought about an existing situation for Austria through the conclusion of a transit contract, which revealed that he had become a threat of existence for the country of Tyrol, for the neighbouring people and for the people who live there. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who determines whether I have a right or not?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your prepotence, that's the only thing you know! Forstinger's already in the drawer!]] The conclusion was that the Treaty, which your minister Streicher concluded, turned out to be a white disaster for this country! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You already got them in the drawer! She just...!]] At the time, his successor to the transport resort, Viktor Klima, gave the following reasons: We're sorry, we're sorry. You don't even have the approach of legitimizing a mistrust application against anyone in this government as long as You do not accept this responsibility! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] It was this Minister for Transport, Monika Forstinger, who once stopped the European Union, who brought an action before the European Court of Justice, a preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice and will ensure that the Austrian position on the transit issue, which is important for our country, will also be broken down. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Down with democracy! I rule alone! Great!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28096	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One! – More "One!"-Court of the Free and the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28154	If you give me the chance. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! First of all, Mrs Vice-Chancellor said in her speech that the previous Social Democratic ministers had done nothing for the secondary railways and had not touched a finger. This fact claim is wrong! [[Abg. Neudeck: You say that!]] The secondary railways are still existing today in the form of their existence. For example, if you wanted to find out about the Pinzgauer Bahn or Waldviertler Schmalpurbahn – to take only two examples – you will know how much effort we have put in and what [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No actual correction again!]] They have since returned to the narrow-track railway in the Waldviertel. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: To get the taxpayers' money was never too expensive for you!]] Second point: Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, you accused us of delaying the contract for the truck toll by two years. Mrs Vice-Chancellor, this statement of fact is wrong. You should be better informed on these occasions. It was the ÖVP that prevented this from happening since 1998.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28230	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Can't you let the one say anything, Mr. President?]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We shall come to the vote. [[Calls.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 491 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 64.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Bures and Mr Comrades on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 492 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Transport to take note of its report 493 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. 21. Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 320/A by Mr Hermann Reindl, Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer and Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Law on the Application of Supplements and the Law on the International Supplements (440 of Supplements) 22. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (357 of the Supplements): The Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on the Allowances and Other Claims in the Attendance and Training Service (Heeresfeegesetz 2001 – HGG 2001) and amending the Civil Service Act 1986 (438 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28331	We come to points 21 and 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gaál is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28358	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There were a number of proposals for improvement in the SPÖ committee on the basis of the Heeresweisgesetz, which were however rejected by the government groups, including the amendment granting a right to housing aid. – This too, Mr Federal Minister, has been rejected by you. Ladies and gentlemen! This leads to the fact that a resident of a community can no longer afford this apartment through the provision of the present service and may lose it as well. We believe that this is contrary to the principle of equality. That is why this draft law does not agree with us. We believe, Minister of State, that the German army has the same obligations to these young citizens as to homeowners. Another important point is the Law on the Application of Subsidy. There is no question that the increase in the monthly fee for present-day servants is justified by 1 000 S to now 4 919 S. The soldiers on the border are subject to high loads. We welcome this decision and would also like to agree with this draft law, Mr Federal Minister, if there were not these great drops of advertising, namely the pooring of the staff of the cadres by reducing the use allowances provided for in this law. This imposes a threefold burden on the professional soldiers for budget recovery: once as a citizen by tax increases, a second time by the deterioration in salary and pension law, and a third time by the reduction of the grant. 50 million schilling disappears in the pocket of the Minister of Finance. This is an incomprehensible procedure that we cannot agree with. If these blatant deteriorations were to occur for the cadre staff and if there were these 50 million schillings, we would have hoped that these would be granted to the defense budget. Federal Minister! Another open question, which needs an urgent solution, is the still irregular recognition of periods of service in pension insurance. All those who have or have performed an ordinary or exceptional presence have pensionable disadvantages. In this case, we have spoken about a joint motion for a resolution. We were willing to find a solution together with you. But we have never experienced anything from this motion for a resolution – if I may formulate it so salopp – until a few minutes ago. In fact, one hour ago we arrived at the last version. In short reading, we had to find that this motion for a resolution cannot solve these problems, which is generally referred to as 'testing'. This is not specific, but it is clear that you want to push the matter out and press for decisions here. To keep this motion for a resolution here in plenary just before the debate – I hope you, as the opposition party, have remained a similar fate. [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Scheibner.]] I would rather have expected, Minister of State, that you will bring together a clear solution with us. Our proposal would have meant that. Federal Minister! They have failed to create optimal framework conditions. Our willingness to work together was there. But perhaps you have made too much use of this handcushion fight in the federal army, which can no longer be overcome by ridiculousness. [[the speaker holds the front page of a newspaper in the direction of Federal Minister Scheibner sitting on the government bank]] "Happy who has such problems" – to quote the Brigadier concerned. Federal Minister! To get serious again: On the basis of these negative circumstances, I should like to make the following request from the Socialist Group: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to give your assent to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28455	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Gaál, Mr Comrades and others is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Murauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28482	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated comrades in the circle of Mrs Bures: How are you doing with such embarrassing appearances? How do you feel about it? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is the question I am asking in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Ask your bet-genossin how she feels!]] I think we're all lucky that the media weren't there anymore, and I'm very happy about it, though it would be good then and when if you could watch it in public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] But, Mrs. Silhavy, Mrs. Bures, and as you all call it: How are you doing? Do you really feel as comfortable as you seem to do? - I don't think so. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come to the revision of the Army Fees Act and the Enforcement Fees Act. - Please? [[Abg. Silhavy: I do not feel comfortable with your quality debates!]] That's it! Unfortunately, I don't have that much time. We can then continue to debate, you certainly have to tell me something that is not important. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Ceremonie Master!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These innovations have long been due and are evidence, an example of legal cleansing, linguistic and legal improvements. There is a premium for the military soldiers and also incentives for them to participate in the border service. The ground defenses will receive 4 900 S instead of 3 900 S for their use in the assistance case and at the border. That's something you can only underline. You really deserve it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Federal Minister! I would just like to underline your suggestion that night vision devices, thermal cameras and accommodation should be improved or obtained, because this is really a necessity for our soldiers at the border. The professional soldiers receive an allowance with risk and distance consideration abroad – something they also deserve and this law allows them to do. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to make a provision here in the foreseeable future, in the event that a foreign mission finds a deadly outcome, the soldiers are similar to the executive officers in order to be able to secure the descendants and the families financially accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to express my full recognition of the law on the grant of employment of the trade union and the Federal Minister. Both negotiators have composed and tried to find a compromise. I am grateful for the understanding of the soldiers concerned to take on board even a restriction on their remuneration of overtime. That is not a matter of course. It's not easy to say either: Yes, we are taking back, we are contributing to fiscal consolidation. – Thank you very much to the soldiers affected, and thank you very much to the union president Willi Waldner, who has done this! Ladies and gentlemen! We give these two new laws the consent. They are characterized by a spirit of reform, an eye-to-eye and a high degree of solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28568	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28589	Mr President. Minister! High house! I quote from a newspaper "Der Soldier", which says: The Betrayal to the Soldier – Has the Soldier become the Pride of the Nation in Austria? Where has the feeling of governance remained for the fidelity of the faithful? Ladies and gentlemen! Why does such a harsh article appear in the newspaper "Der Soldier"? – Without it, then, this grant law is not! [[Abg. Young: Hard matter!]] Yes, a difficult matter! Mr Murauer! You said that the soldier of the officers and soldiers in foreign service had been raised. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Now she's already by you!]] That's right, but you forgot to say that the money comes from the professional soldiers. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Just no envy, Mrs. Mertel!]] That is probably the reason for this harsh article. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... would be eerie to me!]] Minister! I'm really sorry for the soldiers. [[Abg. Murauer: Mrs Mertel, do you have any major problems?]] They were always one who used vehemently for the soldiers. I also think – that was at the time of the ÖVP, but I think you were there – that you agreed a few years ago that a new salary system is being introduced that was warmly recommended to the soldiers – you did not agree to it; but there I must particularly address the ÖAAB – under the title – you hear! – "for more performance a fairer payment". [[Federal Minister Scheibner:... not agreed!]] And now it's taken! [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] And: If you've believed true, you're guilty of yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28702	Mr Jung is speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28724	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the late hour only a few sentences. Mr Gaál! They have been concerned about the housing communities. But it is certainly known to you that there is a constitutional knowledge that clearly regulates and considers it correct. On the issue of the bad situation of the cadre, Mr Murauer has already found very well what happened. It is true that parts of the cadre staff have failed to benefit. But there has not been a total deterioration of the soldiers, Mrs Hagenhofer, because the present-day servants, who are now well deserved, are soldiers. But if we're already in trouble: They have a motion for a resolution which expressly states: "As a result of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, the requirements for entitlements in pension insurance were intensified..." – So the maladministration was carried out in 1996 in an blatant way! Who was the Federal Chancellor? Furthermore, in your own application: "The requirements for early retirement were also strengthened due to reduced working capacity." – So this has not happened under this government and not under this Minister! I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This brings us to a point in the government programme. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have set up here demands that you would have had decades to realize among socialist chancellors. They are in the form you present them today, quite unrealistic. We are taking realistic steps in a direction in which further improvements will follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28812	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Jung and Mr Murauer is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sad to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28836	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the requested military shortfall: It's just as simple as the representatives of the government parties represent, it's not. We have certainly expressed our willingness to reach a common consensus in the Heerweisesgesetz also in the Committee. Further negotiations were concluded. But what happened? – There was no negotiation, but the amendment was presented to us on the 28th – and that was it. There is already a debt if you want to have a joint decision that you will address us and actually implement these promises you made on the committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as housing aid is concerned, I do not think there is the constitutional problem. It's just the problem, Mr. Jung, that it just doesn't fit into your world picture. In your world view, this is not an acceptable model, so there is simply no money. What about the pension scheme? – If you quote, quote completely, then quote completely where it has become beating! [[Abg. Murauer: You said no to the housing aid!]] [[Abg. Murauer: But he who has the rental contract gets the compensation! Only those who don't have a rental contract don't get the compensation!]] It has become striking through the 2000 pension reform, due to these periods of 45 years, during which a number of people fall through. We talked about this for a long time in the committee and always agreed on the need to remedy it. [[Abg. Young: Since 1996!]] The resolution that has come today is right in the front, on page 1. But in the back it is more than thin: We should review and review again and present a test result by the end of the year. Push, push, push! – just do not deal with this painful problem, whose causer is quite clear and, in my opinion, it is clear where the contributions must come from: as we have in our request! [[Abg. Young: 1996!]] To the Act of Entitlement: Mr Murauer, that is a great achievement! First of all, one will be reduced from 2.5 times to 1.7 times, and then it will only be the 2-fold; if the highest load rate we have ever had has been implemented by your government; if in addition the soldiers standing at the border are left to the vein; if we still stand before the situation, Mr Murauer, that the assistance is unexplained. [[Abg. Murauer: From whom have we taken the loads?]] [[Abg. Murauer: Tell me from whom we took the burdens!]] [[Abg. Murauer: You can't say that the loads have come out of the air, but there has been something that is generally called "debts"!]] I don't know what will happen from March. The fact is: The Ministry of the Interior of the ÖVP is unable to protect the border. I just hope our soldiers will carry out this task in the future, although you will take away the money for it. [[Abg. Young: How many secretaries has the SPÖ released?]] Minister! The value of domestic policy and the value of national defence have been demonstrated in the budget speech of the Minister of Finance: These two chapters were not even mentioned!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28979	The next speaker was Mr Loos. The watch is adjusted to 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29008	Mr President. Federal Minister! I quote from the "Kurier": Border guards are in constant stress; never have as many illegals taken up as in the first two months of this year. – It was about 1,330. There are more than 2 000 soldiers serving at the border; they have a very difficult service there. With a four-day service bike, there are 72 day, night and waiting hours and only 24 hours of rest. It is true that a train commander receives only 40 000 S net in this service for six months. This is certainly not too much, but the trade union has succeeded in reducing the savings that were planned. Three positive things have happened: The basic defense servants get more, there is more for foreign use, and also military soldiers can be used. I would like to thank all the soldiers on the Burgenland border for this heavy service, and I would ask the Minister of State to continue to ensure that our population is protected accordingly in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29045	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29066	High house! We Greens take note, though with surprise, of the fact that, in Mr Murauer's speech, it was very clear that ÖVP and FPÖ are very clear about the priority of investment in the material rather than a priority of investment for people and their performance – or sod. [[Abg. Boy: You really don't know yourself!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Haven't you been careful, or don't you want to be careful, Colleague Oillinger?]] That is true, Mr Murauer. [[Abg. Murauer: Haven't you been watching?]] You have said this very clearly and clearly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact that in this context you call the trade unions in this area, so to speak, as administrative bodies and executive bodies of the Federal Government, and you also promise that they are in favour of savings which are not quite as drastic as they are, this also speaks volumes. [[Abg. Murauer: Groundguards are rightly getting more, for foreign operations there is more, for military soldiers there is more!]] [[Abg. Murauer: These are no devices!]] [[Abg. Murauer: You don't want to watch again! That's typical!]] We take note of this. We also note that there is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group, in which, as I think, surprisingly self-critically, measures taken by the old Social Democratic and ÖVP Government are also responsible for the deterioration of pension law, which also concerns federal authorities. However, pension reform 2000 has also been addressed. Now I would like to say a few words about the request made by Mr Gaál because I am somewhat sorry about the round-and-the-side grievances to which the Federal Minister could certainly say something. Who has the responsibility that it has not yet come to pass? I know. The old Federal Government bears a wretched degree of responsibility for the fact that it has not come to an appropriate assessment as regards the calculation of replacement times for the Federal Army's presence, but also for family benefits – even if one should talk about them too – but it is not possible to solve this problem by negate it – or it has not yet come to the Federal Government's account for the corresponding contribution-side calculation – Mr. Federal Minister, do not turn this over to the Social Ministry! – nor has it been added to the family benefits, i.e. the pension fund, nor is it planned for the new allowance, the childcare allowance. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Social Ministry!]] For the Green Group, I only note: Since the new Federal Government is planning to recognise retirement periods in the childcare allowance, as a contribution-based and pension-based period, without the appropriate cover being given in any way, the proposal by Mr Gaál, who states in his request that contributions should be made in respect of both present and civil servants, seems to me to be a useful and important but also just supplement, because both present and civil servants are particularly affected by the measures of this new Federal Government – but also the old Federal Government. That is why we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29189	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29211	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the late hour, I will try to get as short as possible. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Early hour!]] Mr Gaál and colleagues from the Socialist Group! I am surprised that you did not even say what you admitted at least in the committee: that there are a number of far-reaching improvements in this novel to the Military Fees Act for the military, that of course there has not only been the offer from us to include your amendments, but that this has also happened. Only in a single point did we not agree: This was the corresponding recognition of the housing communities. And we also said quite clearly why. Of course, the person present in a housing community holding the rental contract of the apartment has the right to a corresponding housing cost allowance. But where there is no evidence, there is no compensation to be found. It must always be about how a claim can be proved. How can such charges and compensation be prevented from being misused? How can we understandably derive the evidence from a cohabitant who does not have a lease agreement, so that there is no legally binding agreement? You too have been guilty of this answer. That is why we have clearly not been able to accept this proposal. But – we have said that too – there is a hard balance. That is, where social hardship cases can be detected, it is possible – but then without legal claims – to pay compensation. So I would have expected you to recognize this too and not just say that you would not have been involved. I would have liked the opposition to have been as involved as you are now, and I would like you to give your consent if there were any sensible measures to improve the situation of the military officers. For the use allowances: Here it should be recognized that this is primarily not a reduction in the use allowances, but a change in the system. Submissions for the Litera-a-Fall in the § 2 Wehrgesetz – i.e. the military state defense – will be greatly increased; foreign allowances will be increased; and a compromise could also be reached with the staff representative for the Litera-b- and Litera-c-Fall, which I believe can be carried out by everyone. I am also very grateful for the willingness to negotiate and for the constructive negotiations of staff representatives. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we have created a reasonable differentiation in the use allowances with the crisis supplement; this has also allowed us to obtain the means to implement the necessary and meaningful measure in relation to the increase in the use allowance for our basic defence servants, because it was an uneven treatment that the cadre staff had received a very high operating allowance – the two and a half times of the salary as a supplement, which I believe is still very appealing now with the double of the basic content – and that the basic defence workers had previously received only a few hundred shillings as an allowance for this yet very demanding use. This increase by 1 000 S should be a minor recognition for this indispensable service to the Republic of Austria and for the security of our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gaál! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to point out that you have referred to the calculation of the time of attendance for the calculation of pensions – Mr Oellinger has also done so – to an expressly correcting. They refer here to "unsocial" effects of the FPÖ-ÖVP-pension reform. In our pension reform, we have taken a first step towards correcting the wrong reform of 1996 which I believe is completely incorrect. Only then do we have the problem that the times are no longer used as contribution times for pension reasons, not only for the present, but also for the time soldiers and also for foreign use. We have taken the first step, Mr Oellinger, that at least twelve months – i.e. all basic military servants and civil servants – are counted accordingly. It must be possible, in a next step, that, as the legal situation has passed by 1996, all times spent in the context of the defence of Austria, in the context of foreign operations as a time soldier or in the exceptional presence service are fully recognised as contribution times for the calculation of pensions. I think it would be useful, especially at a time when we are thinking about the financialability of our social system, to think first of all about what it costs – and then to see how, hopefully together, we are making the funds available for it. I would like you to look constructively for solutions in the future and also to help them together instead of just operating fundamental opposition here and ultimately trying to put the separator before the joint. The security of our country should be a common concern for all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29260	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. The watch is set to 3 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29282	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I put forward the amendment tabled by Mr Jung and Mr Murauer to the Government's proposal 357 of the supplements:
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29358	The amendment tabled just now by Mrs Jung, Mr Murauer and others is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Reindl is speaking as the next speaker. The watch is also set to 3 minutes for you. - Please. 2.3 3
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29381	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! On Agenda item 21, I tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29465	The amendment tabled just now by Mrs Jung and Mr Murauer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the grant law and the foreign grant law, together with the title and receipt in 440 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the proposed amendment. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Jung, Mr Murauer and Mr Comrades. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down the Military Fees Act 2001 and amends the Civil Service Act, together with the title and receipt in 438 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the proposed amendment. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Jung, Mr Murauer and Mr Comrades. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to a positive sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaál and Mr Comrades on retirement time for ordinary and extraordinary presenters to compensate for the unsocial impact of the FP/VP reform. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jung, Mr Murauer and Mr Comrades on measures to count military hours as contribution times to pension insurance. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 65.) The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-01-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29594	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 385/A to 391/A have been tabled. In addition, requests for 1996/J to 2032/J have been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 2nd. March, 9 o'clock. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
