ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1647	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to take the seats and open them for today, 30. ==References== Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 62. The session was held in Parliament's management, without any opposition, and is therefore deemed approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Dr. Kostelka, Huber, Schieder, Ing. Gerhard Bauer, Rosemarie Bauerand Dr. Pilz. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1687	I announce that the requests received 1807/AB up to 1828/AB. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1708	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform Mrs Mag. Plank has requested that the Financial Committee report on the motion for a resolution 387/A by Dr Gusenbauer and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988 be limited to 9. May this year to sit. There is also a desire by five Members to hold a brief debate on this request for a deadline. Since we have no urgent request and no urgent request, this short debate will be called at 3 p.m. After the debate, the deadline request will be put to the vote. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (500 and 500 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 and Investments (540 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1738	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1760	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debate as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, giving the following details: SPÖ 176 minutes, liberals and ÖVPs each 131 minutes and greens 104 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, who should exceed 20 minutes, or the speaking time of a Secretary of State, which should exceed 10 minutes, will be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. Speech by non-governmental government members will be counted entirely on the speaking time of the group concerned – if such contributions are to be made. About this mode the Hohe Haus has to be located. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? – That's not the case. Then it's so decided. Advisory Group XII Chapter 40: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1802	We are entering the negotiations with the Advisory Group on XII, Military Affairs. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr Gaál. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1860	Mr President. Federal Minister! – Close to the 90 percent limit, Minister of State. [[Abg. Edlinger: How did the elections go out in favorites, Toni?]] [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I have not understood this now! How was that?]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The 2002 Federal Estimate provides for an amount of less than 23 billion schilling for the national defence budget. This slightly reduces the funds for the national defence – the result is a minus of 0.1 percent. [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] And if you, Mr Minister, whisper from behind me, that's wrong, then we assume different calculations. But I'll prove to you that unfortunately I'm right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They say that the 2002 budget remains the same compared to that of 2001, but that additional resources from material and property sales will be included and available for investment. – Minister of State! I can remember: Federal Minister Fassleven argued already – and also unsuccessfully – that way. At the time, they strongly protested against it as an opposition politician. Today you use the same language scheme. So I'd say, Argument emergency pure! Federal Minister! You can therefore say to your announcements: The message I hear well, I alone lack faith! – And this applies to the entire national defence budget. That is why it is not true either, Mr Federal Minister, if you say again and again that you will increase the budget in real terms. - Certainly not! You have no opportunity to do this, because a government that decrees such a radical savings rate, introduces the ambulance charges that increase the recipe fees, tax the accident pensions – one could continue this list for any time; speak of the "small people" and think only of their wallet – a government through which the poor, the rich are getting richer and richer, has any right to talk about an increase in the military budget – no matter what the right to do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Scheibner: What? How was that?]] This would also not be understood by the population, as ultimately the Vienna elections also confirmed. If you analyse the result carefully, you will give me the right to do so, because Vienna has voted against this non-social policy – and with it you are also harming the politics of the Austrian Federal Army, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does colleague Gaál have today?]] Next point, Minister of State Austria has committed itself to providing 2,000 soldiers for the Austrian crisis intervention forces, i.e. for KIOP, until 2003. [[Abg. Auer: But Anton, you were always a serious politician!]] This requires preparatory measures in the area of equipment, personnel and organisation. Experts expect total investment in the range of 4 billion to 5 billion schilling. However, financial provisions are not clear, not recognizable from the current budgetary approaches. And you have also failed in the personnel question, Mr Federal Minister, because there is, for example, no measure in the direction of an incentive system for the recovery of volunteers for the kioP units. The restrictions on the voluntary arms exercise of military soldiers also lead to a negative development: 1999 – I looked at it carefully – 110,000 days of voluntary arms exercise were still done, 2000 were fewer than 30, so about 70 percent less! [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Once again, Mr Colleague: 1999 did you say?]] – In 1999, 110,000 voluntary arms exercises were carried out, and in 2000 there were only more than 30 000, as said, 70 percent fewer. As the military share in foreign operations, as you know, is 70 percent, we are also in danger of continuing negative development in this area. Federal Minister! It is therefore necessary to note on the subject of KIOP, i.e. the forces for international operations, that the currently known requirements are not sufficient to find sufficient voluntary staff. Too many existing uncertainties endanger the timely implementation of this political mission. Unfortunately, our concerns – and this opinion is already consistent with many personnel representatives and so many military commanders – confirm that KIOP can be implemented in the intended version, if at all, only with great difficulties and at the expense of the entire rest of the federal army. It would still be time for a system carried on by all to be feasible and to allow the remaining remaining German army to perform national orders. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: And how does it look?]] – How does it look, Minister of State? – Successful alternative proposals are available; you only need to use them. Federal Minister! You know as well as I do that the Austrian federal army can no longer provide more than a strong battalion within the scope of KIOP because of the human circumstances. Why Needed Do you then have a division command for special use? I would like to ask you, please explain to me what tasks this Division Command is intended for and where it is to be used. Federal Minister! There are many open questions relating to Austrian participation in international crisis management, and my colleagues will then address them in detail. First of all, a few headlines: There is still a shortage in the protection and security of the soldiers. The equipment with modern combat helmets and splitter protection is still not available to all soldiers to the fullest extent. The new equipment of the team with "Pandur" and "Ulan" decided in 1996 within the framework of the Mech package has not yet been realized or not to the desired extent. The ability to communicate is not ensured, Minister of State. There is an urgent need for modernisation, for example, of military radio equipment. The radios are completely outdated, insufficient and need to be renewed. And there is a lack of sufficient approach in this budget proposal. For the truck fleet available for the crew transport, the willingness to use is only partially given, leading to an disproportionate accident risk. As you know, some trucks are twice as old as their drivers. That is why, Minister of State, from my point of view, there can only be one way for the Austrian Federal Army: Rationalisation, creation of slim structures and rework to the force! A few comments on your reform, Minister of State: While it is welcome to abolish two corps commanders, the sense of this relativism is relativized when it comes to the introduction of equally large commanders, in the form of the command for air forces, in the form of the command for agricultural forces and the division command already mentioned here. If it fails to bring the personnel costs of currently 63 percent – and the trend is rising – towards 50 percent, the low investment margin will continue to decrease. Federal Minister! No priority series is identified in the 2002 budget. It does not allow for significant changes in terms of improving the employability and efficiency of the Austrian federal army. In the budget chapter of military affairs to be decided here today, no financial provision will be made for the human and material equipment of the forces for international operations in the context of European crisis management – a serious failure for the future, Federal Minister! That is why this budget does not agree with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2010	The next speaker is Mr Jung. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2031	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would be dishonest to say here that I am happy about the level of the defense budget. That would be nice speeches and politics of an old kind that we want to get over. As a professional soldier, but above all as a security politician, the only slight real increase hurts me. Although the negotiation of the Minister for the first time has meant 100 million more schilling for border use – there was no such thing before. For the first time, we receive all the proceeds from sales, and through retransmissions, namely the withdrawal of the Bosnia-Herzegovina quota and the Cyprus quota, at least a certain, namely the most necessary margin is created. Nevertheless, I would of course have liked to see more money in the defence budget. As a soldier, however, I also learned that, especially in difficult situations – and the budgetary situation in which the SPÖ finance ministers brought us not only into the hair of the red color, but also in the budget, was really a disastrous one... – The 2,000 billion schillings were not a shame, you know that very well. [[call by Mr Edler and Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] If it were so easy, my colleague, that the reds pay for the reds you left us, then it would be easier. But unfortunately, all Austrians pay for what you have done! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In such situations, it is simply a matter of setting priorities. Therefore, not the casting can and the balance of interests 1 : 1 in the coalition can be the right way, but it is about setting priorities. And the priorities had to be first in rehabilitating the budget. A balanced estimate is now available for 2002 and an improvement and improvement in the defence budget will have to be made in the following year. I have to say consciously, otherwise we will not be able to meet the commitments made to the EU. And these commitments to the common security policy – I remind the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats – were entered and signed by a Social Democratic chancellor! And you should stand with them too! I am already in the most important project of Austrian defence policy – or better said: Austrian security policy, because it should be comprehensive, that is, much more than purely military and far beyond the military component – over the next few years: I come to the preparation of the new Security Doctrine, which is now to be allocated to a subcommittee of the National Defence Committee in its first part. It is high time and, in fact, almost too late to make an inventory of the Austrian security policy situation and to formally disembark the long-standing state defense doctrine. Finally, there is no longer the Warsaw Pact, then the main opponent of freedom in the West, and those soldiers who enter today were popular students when the Warsaw Pact dissolved more or less itself. We should therefore take the analysis part given to us by the Federal Government as a basis, put ourselves together and at least seriously try to carry out a joint assessment of the changed situation and the resulting consequences for Austria. What dangers have been lost or at least lost in importance? What risks have been reinforced or have been added at all? And: What instruments do we need to deal with them? Our commitments to the European Union, the United Nations and the OSCE come to this end. Finally, an answer must be given to the question of how future security policy should be implemented in its implementation – alone or supported by an alliance. And the latter – I express this! – does not automatically mean a NATO membership, but the principle decision – what is better, cheaper, more effective for Austria? – must be met! The fundamental need for rethinking and for change is also not new to the head of the Social Democrats, not least because this rethinking, especially as long as their party still made the chancellor, was constantly and ever more pressingly demanded by the Social Democratic Heads of Government throughout Europe. The Social Democrats know that very well! It would be good for the Community, and it would also be good for Austria. But whenever positive signals come from the party president Gusenbauer, there is a fire from the left corner. Some put total opposition and actual refusal of conversation by Junktims – I remember the question of the war material law – before the interests of this state! – I said the left corner is coming in! – Listening [[Mr Edler, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sad and graver.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: He hears in the wrong direction!]] You might also agree that it would be good for you and it would be good for Austria, you would open your ears a little bit! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the Doktrinen question, we offer you an intensive discussion about the future path of Austrian security policy – without conditions, except that at the end a meaningful paper and no zero statement of diaper-soft nature may stand. Bring in your ideas, make suggestions, also criticize from me, but don't take yourself easily out of the game! If you should eventually be in a government once again, which will come in the democratic game of the forces at some point – can be, can not be – then you must live with the now created realities. [[Abg. Edeller: Soon! Soon!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Maybe!]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Or change!]] If you can't shape and want them, then you just have to take everything as it is, otherwise you can influence the development. In order to say it unmistakably – but it has already been established several times anyway –: This discussion is not about leading Austria to NATO at this stage! It is not about throwing the neutrality, legal obligations overboard! And it is not about entering an alliance membership without the approval of the people! Whoever is still claiming this clearly says the untruth. It has also been said here in plenary, and it is said again and again. Anyone who still says it can only say the untruth in the public. Finally, the offer for cooperation – not that we could not work out the doctrine on our own, it would be much easier and much easier – because we are firmly convinced that the security policy of a state should not only be borne by the respective government, but as widely as possible by all the state-bearing – and I emphasize: state-bearing! – parties must have. Security policy should be long-term and should not change after every change of government! We will not let ourselves down, and we are offering cooperation on this State policy issue. Hit Don't lighten her out!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2134	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2156	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. The jubilation reports, which have been passed by the press, are also saved in the defence budget, even there is no large extra expenditure, will definitely be supplemented by a very important information, which is about all that is not in the budget, which is to be financed extra-budgetically, and yet – and above all, no illusions – will have to be paid from the Austrian tax bag! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I refer, of course, to the planned procurement of interception hunters, which is also announced as extra-budgetary. The procurement of interception hunters and their extremely high costs in billions – I would just like to point out here the relationship with the income from the ambulance fees – are always justified by the fact that compensation transactions at a huge level, which would thus go far beyond the procurement, are expected from these transactions. However, two points must be taken into account: First of all, there is no comprehensible, valid evaluation of the previous compensation operations, which have been announced in each case in military procurement operations. Secondly, I think everyone who is sufficiently concerned with this issue is aware that prices in the military goods sector are far higher! That's no wonder either: For these, there is a market in which the buyer can either have a lot of money, or fail to get into the tax pockets, because with the security argument, every procurement is always justified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not see and cannot accept that these compensation transactions are always handled behind the curtain and under the spell in the course of procurement actions, so there is no transparency in this respect, that there is no evaluation, no clarity, which would, of course, also be interesting for a government budget, because then it is about how further procurement actions are planned and managed. [[Abg. Murauer: There is even a Court of Auditors report on this! That's not quite right!]] This is primarily concerned with all the largest expected items of expenditure, the interception hunters. In this context, the following questions must be asked: How will the decision really fail? What about the rumors about Russia's contacts, which Mr Leikam has passed on? What's wrong with that? What is the external or internal cost of this procurement? Will this, as it were, be the big NATO calcule to create friendly nostrils for Austria and for the goal of NATO accession, or will it be followed by another logic that has to do with some of the decision-makers of the Freedom Party with Russia? What will be the logic behind these decisions? The Austrian population has a right to this information. It's written to you in the main book! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, something needs to be mentioned about the already fallen procurement decision, namely on the subject of Black Hawk: I have received information – I hope, Minister, that you can disarm it; if not, this procurement decision needs to be reversed from my point of view – which says: A number of U.S. high-tech weapon systems are treated with various radiotoxic substances. A report by the German television on the diseases of Starfighter pilots seen in connection with this treatment even found this. Also with the Black Hawk helicopters, for which the decision has already been taken, there has obviously been evidence that total radio activities of more than 25 Becquerel should be available, this is also based on US-American information. It is not a U238-Nuklid, but it is what one can call dramatic and dangerous. Think of the unexplained leukemia cases of mostly soldiers from Italy! Thinking You're saying that can't be taken away! [[Abg. Young: That's not about helicopters, Mrs. Colleague!]] If there is evidence, the people who work in the federal army and deal with this device in particular have the first and most important right to know whether sufficient assurance is made that this information is not right. But the public also has such a right. I think that's very central. I would therefore ask him to look more closely at this in order to know whether these facts can be disincentived. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Boy: That's not a fact, Mrs. Colleague, these are rumors!]] I particularly notice an imbalance in the work on the actual budget data – and this goes hand in hand with the fact that, in my view, many German army members are legitimately obliged to complain about completely inadequate personal equipment, i.e. that protective equipment is missing or only available in parts. Especially the lower level in the federal army has to be dealt with with with with with with a great deal of neglect, which on the other hand is contrary to the procurements that cost huge amounts of money. [[Abg. Young: What do you mean, Mrs. Colleague? What's that supposed to be?]] I do not want to go into the question of how lamentable the situation in the individual barracks is in terms of the construction conditions. That would be a debate of its own, I do not wish to do more. In this area, some of them do not even comply with minimum standards. That is why I believe that this should be the very first, the most central and most important area in which improvements should take place. Minister! In the Committee on Budgets, you gave us an answer to a request we made in the course of the deliberations, which I cannot accept in this form. So it repeats what was the case last year. Her answer to our question – I quote it, because it is undoubtedly audible – shows how Parliamentarians are dealt with if they want information. The question was: The expenses for ammunition increased by 30 percent. Why? – The answer was: The additional burden in the 2002 budget is mainly due to the procurement of tank ammunition for the combat tank.... – This is exactly the fact that the question has been identified. The reason why there is this over-dimensional increase in this context is far and wide no mention. [[Abg. Boy: Because they were needed!]] Minister! In my view, this is an absolutely unacceptable way of answering questions from Members. I would urge you, in your speech, which you will certainly hold today, to address the question of whether you intend to maintain this way of dealing with information requests you have so far displayed. This is not the case with the Austrian federal army, it is not worth such a behavior. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One point that still needs to be raised and which was also debated in the Committee on Budgets concerns the Security Doctrine. In addition, there is still a broad debate on meaning, costs and the Austrian role. But this has only been noticed by the way. It is interesting that, in the context of the budget consultation, you have clearly no longer talked about neutrality, but only about the freedom of alliance. Minister! It is not up to you, and you are not entitled to reduce Austrian security policy and Austrian neutrality on its own to a pure freedom of alliance, that, on the basis of a definition, what Mr Jung presented on the questioning of the population will become obsolete at the end of the day, because neutrality is eroded to such a degree that there is no longer any possibility of meaningful debate in the context of a vote on an active, clear security policy and neutrality policy in Austria. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Now she explains!]] [[Abg. Young: But think about it!]] Both in your words and in your actions – I do not leave the Social Democrats here out of responsibility – you will have undermined neutrality so far that it no longer has a chance of turning into active politics, which I demand from this House and also in the sense of Austrian neutrality.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2308	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European The watch is set voluntarily to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2329	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government's priority under Chancellor Schüssel to stop making debts and to stop breaking up debts for the next generations is to be underlined and supported in principle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Taking full employment into account, to an excellent extent, the success of introducing child money as a quantum leap in family policy and taking education into account, is the focus of this federal government's policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the budget of national defence is always too high for the Greens. I have no understanding of this, but we always hear it from the budget discussions. The national defence budget must, of course, be based on the following principle: The Ministry of Defence has the task of having to come out with 23 billion and in addition to the money that comes from the sale of property and equipment. This is a very difficult task. It is therefore to be thanked to the Federal Minister for being able to maintain the operation. However, I would also like to thank all the officials of the Ministry, the soldiers, the contract staff, the officials, very much for taking note of the changes in the federal army, even of the fact that in some areas there have been changes in salaries and cuts. For this, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank everyone very much, and I should like to express this in this budget debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Federal Minister! This budget provides for additional 100 million schilling for assistance at the Hungarian border. This is only a part of the billing of the assistance of the Federal Force, but it is worth stressing. Why? – Because it serves to better equip our soldiers at the border in order to make their use safer and to improve accommodation on the one hand, but also to be able to face up to those organizations, tors and the poor refugees, the towed people, in order to stop international crime on the other. Federal Minister! In the next federal proposal, the national defence budget will also have to be higher. We have to reach 1 percent of the gross domestic product, and you have our support because the Austrian People's Party advocates the need for national defence and the German army and wants to have a modern European, but also financeable army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In budgetary matters, of course, it would be helpful, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about social democracy if you were to talk with a tongue in some way. On the one hand, colleagues Gaál and Kummerer and all the other comrades who are in the Defense Committee are on the other hand, and on the other hand, Mr. Edlinger lets us know again and again that it is right to save the federal army, or send the Juso leader, who is at all in favour of the abolition of the federal army. More predictability and a less populist or party-political approach would be helpful for security policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Despite this budget, it succeeds in enabling the Federal Government to acquire what is extremely necessary, as we know. We're getting light trucks. It is, Mr Federal Minister, still to be calculated with a need of nearly 1,000 trucks. But the pioneers also get the necessary quick bridges. It is about the "Ulan" tankers, radars and radios or combat suits are purchased. All these are things that are urgently necessary, because our equipment and the material are naturally overburdened by domestic and foreign operations. The international operations will be dealt with by Mr. Freund. I just want to remove the need. I would like to underline the commitment of the Federal Government that Austria has to provide 2,000 men, to make them available and to make them available in 30 to 60 days. It is a duty to equip these troops with the appropriate equipment and safe equipment, and in particular to underline the willingness, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As Mr Schieder points out in this context that there is also a need for a commitment in certain parts, I would like to take up these thoughts, and I believe that this should be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! The structural reform is under way, a structural reform that is being undertaken at the top of the ministry and that the force remains. This is a real process, and I naturally agree with this fundamental trend. But all of this must not be done without sensitive social measures and needs a time-consuming component that ensures us reflections and consideration. I would like to address another social benefit here, because it is very important to me that at last, as in the Executive Assistance Act, the families of our soldiers are financially secured in one, as we do not hope, but also possible fatal outcome in use. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to be able to involve Austria accordingly in Europe and in the common foreign and security policy, we are discussing a new Security and Defence Doctor, and this doctrine will accompany us in the near future in security policy. A similar paper has been prepared and presented, and now Parliament is called upon, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss this paper. An inventory shall be carried out by all parties together with all the organisations concerned in order to achieve as broad a consensus as possible. I should like to call on you to discuss this, to find a consensus, but also to define appropriate possibilities for our country's security policy, i.e. to consider and define options in order to bring our country into the common European security policy accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I believe that those who refuse to discuss in principle from populist or party political considerations are not well advised, or perhaps, as in other cases, they are behind neutrality and say that we are neutral and therefore no discussion is taking place. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not acceptable in the field of safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The People's Party's budget is to be approved, especially as an increase to 1% of the gross domestic product is envisaged.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2459	The Federal Minister is speaking. The clock is set at 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2480	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on the budget for the Austrian Federal Army, for the Austrian state defense, should also provide an opportunity to debate fundamental issues of Austrian security policy. However, it should also be taken advantage of the opportunity to point out the outstanding and outstanding achievements of our soldiers, the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army, which can sometimes be achieved under difficult conditions. I think we should give thanks and recognition to all our soldiers here in the House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the last ten years, the Austrian Federal Army has developed from a peace army, from a training army to a military force. Today, when we discuss the issues of national defence, there are 4,000 soldiers – 4,000 Austrian soldiers! - in operation. Whether in the field of assistance throughout Austria, especially at the Lower Austrian and Burgenian EU external borders, or in many missions in Europe and outside Europe, our soldiers provide protection and assistance. And I say to that: for protection and help where others can no longer. That is why I would ask you to take this into account, even if it is a matter of discussing expenditure for our national defence. We see again and again that the need and the need for expenditure for the military defence of the country, but also sometimes the need for an army to be called into question, as long as nothing happens. These voices, however, fade very quickly when a case occurs. It must not be a military case, but we should also remember that it was only ten years ago, namely in 1991, that soldiers of the Austrian federal army had to go out to secure the borders of Austria against the south in a case of military defence. This should not be forgotten if the sensibleness of the national defence is called into question. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These voices are also silent when it comes to calling for the federal army in case of floods, avalanches, storm damage, and all these dangers. We see that, although there are many civil organizations, which are of course also active in this field, but when such a catastrophe exceeds a certain extent and, above all, it takes more than a few days to deal with it, it is only more possible to solve these problems with the forces of an army, in Austria with the forces of the Austrian federal army. We should remember, ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the opposition, that these soldiers are in a dangerous, often life-threatening commitment, no matter in which area. In view of this, it can be no less so that we, as political representatives, assume the responsibility of providing the soldiers, who carry out important tasks on our behalf, with the best possible safety and the necessary – I say no more, but no less – for this commitment and, above all, for the greatest possible security. For this, there should be as broad as possible, even a 100% consensus here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, Mr Gaál, I do not understand that you, on the one hand, also criticise the budget as too low on your part in the Committee on Defence, on the other hand, when it comes to public debate, on the other hand, when it comes to maintaining precisely this principle in your own party, on the other hand, and on the other hand, when it comes to maintaining the public debate, even in the public, perhaps also in relation to your own clientele, on the one hand, on the other hand, it falls into an old ideological scheme and, on the other hand, raises the question of national defence and the problem of the provision of funds, which is playing out against other expenses, such as social expenditure. I believe that this is absolutely unresponsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It cannot be the question of whether we have sufficient resources... – Yes, Mr Edlinger, you are one of those who have spoken at the last budgets of "gifts" for the Austrian federal army. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr Edlinger! Where are the gifts? [[Abg. Edlinger: You rob the pensioners and others!]] I've been looking for her. I didn't find her. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, for you to play security against other tasks. Do you want to take the responsibility, Mr Edlinger, that we send soldiers into action, although we are not convinced that the soldiers are properly equipped? – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Edlinger: Pensioners and accident pensioners are more important to me than the federal army!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You're right, I'm the people more important than the military! You're right!]] That was interesting: They are the people in this country more important than the military. Are not the soldiers of the Austrian federal army human beings, Mr. Finanzminister, except for Edlinger? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I ask you the question: Are the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army, who put their health and their lives at risk for you every day – no one of us, nor you, knows whether he does not need the help of these soldiers tomorrow – in your opinion, no people who should be worth at least as much as all other parts of the population in Austria? [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is the prepotence of the Edellinger!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] These are the poles we have, these are the contradictions that exist also in the opposition, ladies and gentlemen! This should also be presented here. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: The money, Minister! It's about the money!]] – Yes, it is about the money, Mr. Cot! It is precisely necessary to provide certain resources for the national defence of equipment. Austria is the absolute final light in the expenditure on national defence, not only since this or the last budget, but Austria has never taken its own national defence as seriously as other neutral states, such as Switzerland, which has spent more than twice its own security over the past 40 years. [[Abg. Edlinger: Wrong purchases have you made!]] We now have the problem, on the one hand, of working out your debt, Mr Edlinger, and, on the other hand, of compensating the deficits of the last decades. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: This is the debt of the ÖVP!]] We are dealing with this task because the future of our country and the future of our security policy are a concern to us and also to me as Minister of Defence. We will eliminate these deficits step by step. The 2002 budget is identical to the 2001 budget, Mr Gaál! In 2000, we still obtained 500 million schillings as a surplus authorisation for which we preferred procurement. So 23.5 billion schilling for the Austrian state defense is not a cause for joy, but it is a way in the right direction, so that at least once one can meet the most necessary operational requirements. [[Abg. Murauer: (in the direction of Abg. Edlinger) That's not even the old Marx thought!]] We will also tighten the structures in our own areas – you have not mentioned this here from the speaker’s desk – and we will also ensure that we get a military leadership structure that improves the relationship between deployment organisation and administration. I introduced these structures to you a few weeks ago. It is planned that: 20 percent fewer staff in the administration, in the central office, these areas are to be relocated to the force. Sections are to be merged and sections are to be dissolved and transferred to the military structure. That is the right direction, and I am very proud of the fact that there is such a great deal of agreement in my department that we can save in our own areas of administration in order to be credible when it comes to imposing additional budget resources. I am also very pleased that for the first time for ten years the question of the assistance of the Austrian federal army on the Burgenland and Lower Austrian borders has been raised by a professional solution. In the last ten years, the Austrian Federal Army has spent almost 6 billion schillings from its own budget resources to the effect that a task that actually comes to the Ministry of the Interior has been carried out. We confess to that. We acknowledge the need, of course, to support wherever a resort is unable to carry out its own tasks. However, it must also be clear that the costs will be recovered and that the equipment and equipment must ensure a level playing field between the various executive bodies taking over this task. With the 100 million schillings we have recently decided in the Council of Ministers, we have taken a first step in this direction, and I can say that with the device we can buy with it, we are finally creating a equality in equipment with our opponents. I say clearly here: Our opponents at the border are not the refugees, but are tow organizations, criminal organizations that are highly equipped and technologically at the border, that is, precisely with this device that we have missed in the last ten years. Now, at last, a equality is being created in the interests of security in the Eastern region. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] An important task – some Members have referred to it – will also be the integration of Austria into international structures in the future, the participation of Austria in international operations as well. Here again and again: What are we sending Austrian soldiers abroad for? – To do this, one has to say clearly and clearly: Especially today, we look again with concern at the Balkans and hope that the crisis in Macedonia will not return to a fire that will only be more difficult and then only be controlled by military means. We need to be clear today that there is no longer any conflict in Europe, but also around Europe, which does not at least have a indirect impact on the security interests of Austria. It is of interest to us to be involved in this and to help to ensure that either crises do not arise at all – that is the most important task of the security policy, and there is still a lot to do in the area of Europe – or, if crises arise, to prevent them from developing into a fire of the surface, and if this is no longer to be prevented, then to deal with such crises with a necessary military capacity. I say it again: We should remember that such crisis spots can also be applied to our borders. No one can predict how the security situation will develop over the next five or ten years. Therefore, any soldier who contributes to the security of the region in the United Nations or, as is now the case in the Balkans in the framework of KFOR, also contributes to the security of Austria. Mr Gaál asked: What is the preparedness for KIOP, for our crisis response forces in the framework of the European Union? Mr Gaál! It's not Austria, quite the opposite: We have prepared a clear approach, we have also released it for implementation, and we have reported our contribution to the European Union. It is now up to the European Union to bring together, evaluate and implement national contributions to an overall picture and a stage plan for the implementation of the corresponding projects. This has not yet happened. You, Mr Gaál, are always calling for an efficient use of resources. It would be totally absurd to invest money in a project which is not yet clear what it will look like because the European Union will not be able to meet its timetable with some certainty. But I'll tell you what path we went here. We've taken the path of motivation. I have pointed out at each of my events that international operations are important that this will be an important task of the Austrian federal army in the future. And I am proud to say that it is the Austrian soldiers who are now participating with special commitment in this field of international operations, who are exemplary in these operations, especially in Kosovo, where we are not in danger of being seen as a party to one or another conflict party, but where our soldiers gain highest recognition from all sides in their efforts. We should also emphasize that accordingly. We have no problems with the rotations, because entire companies report from the barracks for foreign operations. It should give us cause for optimism and joy that, despite these sometimes difficult conditions, our soldiers are ready for action, well motivated and are also aware of their mission to be active in the sense of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is a priority – Mr Lichtenberger has referred to it – to do something about the equipment of these soldiers. I have commissioned Mrs Lichtenberger – you know that money is reserved for this in the 2002 budget – that there is a new battle suit, that there is a new armor, but when it comes to protecting our soldiers accordingly – you have said that there is no need for a heavy device – and then it is also necessary to carry it in a split-protected manner. For this purpose, crew transport tanks are necessary, and there is a need for protective tanks. And these are exactly the purchases that go into the billions. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But they don't even have helmets!]] If I have understood your comments correctly, we are of the opinion on this. What then prevents us from implementing this national consensus in these important procurement projects as well? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Lichtenberger! You have asked the question whether there is contamination in the helicopters. Mrs Lichtenberger! I do not know if you have meant this seriously, but I would really ask you not to do with such rumors or suspicions policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] I am very proud that for the first time we have been able to make a new acquisition in the area of large-scale equipment, i.e. these helicopters are being newly manufactured from A to Z. There is no indication at all that there can be a threat. [[New call for tender Dr. Lichtenberger]] If you are talking about weapons systems, Mrs. Lichtenberger, I must tell you that, of course, we are doing everything – just like all procurements – so that we can obtain the best military equipment for the best possible security of our soldiers. That alone has to be criterion. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you're talking about contaminated weapons systems, I can tell you: In contrast to what you have often interrupted me, we do not create a combat helicopter, and it does not include this procurement of weapons, but it will be provided with this helicopter from the basic equipment, and no weapons systems will be introduced. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Look at the advertising brochure! You need to know them!]] You have then also referred to the question of the freedom of alliance, neutrality, and have accused me of changing anything in the field of security policy. Mrs Lichtenberger! I don't change anything at all, quite the opposite: I am fully in line with our constitutional situation, and I am also obliged to move at its level. [[Abg. Murauer: To the difference of Mr. Pilz, who wants to abolish the German army!]] Only in the course of this discussion on a security and defence doctrine, in which we are now in which we should have led ten years ago – and I hope that we will find an objective discussion – must it be possible to tell Mrs Lichtenbergerer the truth at last! You have also been with your group, who, together with us in the last ten years, have repeatedly criticized the fact that measures, even constitutional amendments, have been introduced, also in the context of Austria's accession to the European Union, which have been incompatible with a serious status of international neutrality. That's where you agreed. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's where you agreed!]] If you say honestly today that all these measures, which have been adopted earlier, are now giving Austria the status of an alliance-free country such as Sweden and Finland, and honestly do not have much to do with a serious international neutrality, then you should support this and not criticise it as unconstitutional. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We must finally come to discuss our security parameters openly and honestly together with the people. I hope that we will be able to do so, ladies and gentlemen, also from the opposition! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: When? When?]] You know, we have offered a broad consensus on security policy. We will have to discuss the threat and security scenarios in the next few weeks and months, open and, I hope, discuss them honestly. We will have to draw the relevant conclusions, and then we will have to take the measures in this area – hopefully in common. This is not about a membership of the alliance, but about making Austrian security policy so fit – from the political to the military component – so forward-looking that one can be guaranteed, namely that we can make a contribution to the security of the continent Europe, but at the same time also with a well-equipped, well-trained and also a well-motivated Austrian federal army, that Austria will be spared from all wars and from all the fights on our territory, and that a peace order in Europe can be prepared and implemented for the benefit of our people. We should all take our responsibility as representatives of politics and society and keep the issues of Austrian security out of the political debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2796	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2817	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! It's not that simple. You can't always try to push a rope into social democracy. You can't always claim there are different statements if it's simple and just not true. I'll come back to that again. Federal Minister! Thank God the Austrian federal army is part of the whole. Because this is the case, the Austrian federal army must also be discussed as a part of the whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There's nothing to do with it, Minister: As long as you impose such social burdens, as long as you pay taxpayers 111 billion schilling, as long as you take taxes, for which no human, not even a "simple party member" in Carinthia understands, as long as you check out every single issue you and your government members, the companies, the foundations, for so long, Mr. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the situation in the state defense itself: Here is an interesting picture – which has been mentioned more often – when we compare how the representative of the Freedom Party has acted as an opposition politician and how he today fulfils his obligations as Minister. I claim he takes a lot from his predecessor. He is more and more like Werner Fassleven, who also gave us information in committee with well-to-do and long words, without saying anything. [[Abg. Murauer: This is good for him when he resembles Fassl evening! This is very good for him, Mr President.]] I've done the same thing. Mr Lichtenberger was much better served in this respect because she still received answers. I didn't get any answers. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: There's nothing in the answers anyway! Don't be presumptuous!]] "Unfortunately" the chairman of the National Defence Committee did not carry out the censorship he had tried to impose on the committee – this has gone wrong. I thought first of all if I did not ask Mr Jung the questions, because perhaps there would have been an answer. She did not come from the Minister. What do I mean? – We talked about how the national defence budget has developed in connection with gross domestic product in recent years. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Negative!]] You didn't give a reply. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Negative!]] The numerical material I asked you for was not mentioned. I have calculated it myself, and I am also willing to hand over the list to you, Minister of State. If you calculate it and see the figures, you understand why you did not give this information in the committee. If my bills are true, then you are happy to have reached 0.71 percent of the gross domestic product with the expenses for national defence – figures far away from those of Edlinger you mentioned. You present your third budget today, and the fact is that there has been a continuous deterioration for the federal army. The figures show this clearly – even if I agree with you to add these additional billions, already booked for the year 2000, to 2001/2002. If I am grateful to you to add up these 100 million you mentioned, then we are happy and finally at 0.726 and with the 100 million at 0.729. Three thousand percent, Federal Minister, get you for border use. That's what I want to do. [[Abg. Murauer: Who is right now: Edlinger or Kummerer?]] Federal Minister! You have mentioned several times, you see the security concept more global than the military security concept. That's what I'm for. If we are dealing with the global security concept, this is a particular need for our representatives from the border country. Ladies and gentlemen! What does it actually look like? – The Minister of Defence threatens to end the border deployment, withdraw, and receives 100 million schilling to continue it. There is also a need to say that the soldiers pay 50 million of these 100 million themselves, because they have delivered 50 million to the Minister of Finance through the cuts in operating fees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] The difference is: The 100 million schillings get them once, the 50 million schillings pay the soldiers annually. And what's the Minister of the Interior doing? – The Minister of the Interior protects us by decommissioning posts – one hears 1,000 – by providing for the closure of Gendarmerie posts by stopping at the equipment by resetting the radio by not replacing a vehicle. Our officials are moving in vehicles with well over 200,000 kilometers and horrendous repair costs. Scheibner thinks he might withdraw his assistance at the end of the year if not finally money comes. This too is a sign of the new Federal Government, which I believe is interesting. [[Abg. Zweytick: Who starved her?]] For the first time, the budget of the Internal Chapter is now under the budget of the National Defence Chapter – for example, the internal security in Austria under this new government. [[Abg. Murauer: You have to get rid of the fact that only money can be used to convey security! You have to get rid of it! That's what you've done in the past! There are also other means to make security policy!]] The real importance, Mr Murauer, has all been heard in the budget speech of the Minister for Finance: These two chapters, internal and national defence, were not worth a single word in the budget debate to the Minister for Finance. That doesn't interest anyone in the new government!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2959	The next speaker is Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2980	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The share of the national defence budget in gross domestic product will be 0.752 per cent in 2002 and 0.778 per cent in 2001, a reduction of 0.026 per cent. We'll clear it up. But it is to be compensated for 100 percent of the divestments made from military old equipment and material by an overpowering authority. That is why the 2002 defense budget will be a stable budget. It's scarce, but it's acceptable for us to be free. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That the SPÖ regrets that the defence budget is so low, I can very much welcome this year, as I did last year. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We will need your support in adapting the national defence budget to a European framework in the future. But, thankfully, Mr Murauer has already addressed this – the main objective of this federal government is the reorganisation of the budget! We clean up the public debt of the SPÖ that you have accumulated over the last 30 years. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also part of the Austrian Federal Army. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No one believes that anymore! You've seen that in Vienna!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You won't want to make debt to buy off hunters again. This is not going to be the case with this federal government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Scheibner is a guarantee for intelligent procurement operations in all areas concerning the German army. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But that would be new to me!]] Mr Gaál! You have also addressed a streamlining of the organisation of the federal army, and you also have our support here. They have clearly said that there must be savings and redeployment of posts. That is exactly what Mr Gaál has started this year, Federal Minister Scheibner. Through its comprehensive reorganisation of the head of the federal army, through a reorganisation of approximately 2,000 posts from the administration to the force, exactly what you have mentioned, Mr Cot! That is why it is all the more sad that your comrades attacked Mrs Vice-Chancellor yesterday in the debate on administrative reform and asked her not to allow any savings in the personnel sector in the ministries. I can agree with you, Mr Gaál: What your friends said yesterday was wrong. Federal Minister Scheibner is also here a guarantee that the saving of posts is linked to social compatibility and a streamlining of the organization. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Army can also point to some successes in the year that lies behind us. There has been a decision on the procurement of new helicopters. Mrs Lichtenberger has already responded. With these helicopters, the assistance of the federal army and not its military capacity will be increased. Just think about the avalanches in Galtür in Tyrol. That's going to be I would also like to ask you, Mrs Colleague, that the Austrian federal army will be able to carry out a proper commitment there in future. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: An absolute instinctlessness! Leave that, please!]] The continuation of the assistance until 2002 and the compensation of the federal army's resources with 100 million schilling are another point. The facilitation of the military career for women, successful humanitarian operations in Mozambique and other areas of the world, a forced military performance sport – an important contribution to promoting in this area – an unbureaucratic opportunity for civilian service keepers to deliver the military service, humanitarian accents also in the initiative to treat seriously injured children in army hospitals, the impossibility of child soldiers – all of these have been steps last year, proof that Federal Minister Scheibner is developing and reforming the army in a direction that is right. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, exactly! That was the goal! That was the goal!]] The Military Power Act came into force. The Act of Enforcement, the Military Fees Act and much more have been adopted. There will be the procurement of 200 modern trucks, since the trucks are rightly criticized in their condition. Man equipment will be improved, the combat suit and the individual soldier's scatter protection will finally be modernised in the coming year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All in all: Federal Minister Scheibner stabilizes the army's budget this year, and he continues to reform it in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3077	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3099	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I have also followed your reply to the comments made by your four previous speakers very closely. Allow me to make a few brief comments. Federal Minister! First of all, I must reject the accusation you have tried to address in the direction of the SPÖ Group, namely that we are against the German army with all your determination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I clearly become the Austrian Federal Army and am in agreement with our overall party. They will find a clear commitment to comprehensive national defence in all the SPÖ party programmes, and we also acknowledge the content of this. [[Abg. Fink: Since when? Since when?]] But it is true, Mr Federal Minister – I have already told you in committee – that: If the population is burdened to an incredible extent by the government parties, it is not avoidable that a discussion will also be held about federal army expenditure. But, Mr Federal Minister, I do not know why you are constantly saying that you need our support. You don't really need them, Minister of State! Your opponent in the Federal Army budget, for the defence of the state, is not to be found in the ranks of the Social Democrats. Your target address to remain in the military language must be directed towards Himmelpfortgasse. There is the opponent of the Austrian federal army, ladies and gentlemen! It is the Minister of Finance who does not provide you with the funds you need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: It's not about money, Mr. Cot!]] It's nothing new. You have now submitted three budgets to Parliament within 14 months, and we hear the same thing with each budget: You are rightly dissatisfied, Mr Jung is rightly dissatisfied, but while you are still talking about a slight increase, Mr Federal Minister, your colleague Bösch says exactly the opposite, namely that there is a smaller defence budget. – You need to know what is true once. The fact is that the Minister of Finance does not provide you with the means you would need, and that is the situation you need to get around with. Federal Minister! You are also far from what you have always demanded as an opposition politician. There are worlds in between. I also read very carefully the letters of the Austrian Officers' Society. They are dissatisfied with the current state of affairs, with what is going on in the Austrian federal army. But I give you the right, and I recognize your efforts that you want to have better – no question at all. I also think it would like Mr Jung to have better. But You have a Finance Minister in your ranks who says: No, it won't spend more money on it. – I am really curious, Mr Bösch, how this can be understood when you say that the interception hunters will not be financed with foreign money. From the post office of the Minister of Defence it will not be possible to purchase interceptors! [[Abg. Murauer: Just don't stop!]] [[Abg. Boy: Just like that!]] You'll make it a little too easy. Another point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which also concerns the Minister of Finance, because you have not enforced yourself here, or you have left the Minister of Finance in the rain, concerns assistance. We have discussed this in the Committee, and you have announced that a satisfactory solution will be taken at the next Council of Ministers meeting. For months now, three ministers – the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Finance – have been discussing how assistance in Burgenland and Lower Austria is to continue. Nothing came out, Minister of State! Nothing! That's what it's been before. I don't know what you or the three ministers talked about, and then two officials' rounds. And then you also used the consulting firm Anderson, which should have designed a concept and supposedly also designed one that has not been accepted by the ministers again. Especially stubborn, I hear, was the opposition of the Minister of Finance here too. So you didn't bring anything together. Mountains cried, and a little mouse was born. Federal Minister! I believe that this has also caused great uncertainty – an uncertainty among the population, because it does not know how it goes on. They announce to withdraw the soldiers slowly or gradually from 2002. You did not receive the 600 million you expected from the Federal Minister for Finance, but 100 million for technical equipment. We welcome that. But you didn't get what you wanted. From 2002, as you announce, you will withdraw the soldiers. But no one knows who will come. It is completely open because what you and the Minister of the Interior want, namely that the customs guards go there, is still rejected by the Minister of Finance. So they leave the population unclear. They also leave the officials unclear. You have to be accused of this, Mr Federal Minister: It didn't come out too much. The newspaper comments are all very clear in this direction: As I have already said, you have done nothing in this direction as far as assistance is concerned. That's a shame because I know you've pursued other intentions. It all stayed the same. The uncertainty is very great.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3188	The next speaker is Mr Loos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to begin by saying that the Federal Minister has finished his remarks, namely that security policy should by no means be mixed with day-to-day policy. My good friend and acquaintance, Mr Gaál, has already spoken in the second sentence of the Vienna elections, ambulance fees and so on. You believed he wasn't talking about today. We must separate security policy from day-to-day policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing I would like to say very seriously, however, with joy: Mr Leikam has just said: We all – he has spoken for the whole SPÖ – are in favour of the country’s defence in Austria having a certain, good priority. I would like to thank everyone for this. I would also like to say this to the military attachés present: You can assume that most of Austria is behind its national defense, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But what we have our problems with is that, in a civil word, some of them are very inconspicuous, or that – in a somewhat more military word – God is unfortunately being applied a certain double strategy in the SPÖ. Former Federal Minister Edlinger writes in his press release of 9. on the 2002 budget: The expenditure for the army will be 83 million Schilling in 2002 than in 1999, after a total of 1.032 billion more were spent here in 2000 and 2001 than in 1999. Two pages further is very large: Proposal from Edlinger: Save on agricultural support and military expenditure. [[Abg. Kiss: The man is a shame to this country! A shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Something doesn't fit in. The fact is, we decide this year a budget equal to the previous one. In addition, 100 million schillings of funds are being given to the Federal Army for assistance, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's a small success, but it's a success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Another thing I notice especially with the Greens who are totally withdrawing from this debate, as you can see – they have put a speaker who has given important words of himself – is: With the Greens it is so that it grants the money for the interceptors, the money for the helicopters about 20-30 times – for social institutions, for any concern. If you could count all of this together, Mr Pirklhuber, you could make a whole annual budget with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You're pretending you can forgive it 100 times. Either we stand to defend the country, then we spend money on it – or we do not stand by it. They are at least as honest and, as I take from your remarks, do not stand for national defence. I'm sorry. For border use, which has already been mentioned today: This is, by the way, a very important part, in which one can see in particular the purpose of the federal army. This also applies to international operations. We know – unfortunately so – that there are conflicts in Europe and all over the world. We now have the opportunity to take part in these areas of conflict. One can take peacekeeping measures. It always doesn't work. In any case, migration comes from those areas where there are conflicts. People are moving away from these areas of conflict because they could be socially and perhaps physically damaged there. They go to countries where it looks better. Thank God Austria is a country in which it looks very good, ladies and gentlemen, a country where you can live very well. These migrants would enter this country if they were not to be stopped at the border. That is why this border commitment – unfortunately, God's time is already quite advanced – is so necessary so that we can maintain our social peace and peace in Austria at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's it! Right!]] I would also like to say something about Mrs Stoisits: She was very excited a few days ago because these 100 million schillings are used for night vision devices. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am sure I will now negotiate a call for an order, but one of the honourable Members has said that if you stand up for it, you will be lobbying for anyone. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The tractors are stopped, the tow is stopped! And whoever is opposed to going against tow is apparently for being for the tractors. [[Abg. Murauer: Right! That's what it's all about!]] Something is wrong here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There is a beautiful saying of the Greens: Imagine, it's war and nobody's going. – You know how it looks in practice, you only need to go to Germany and see how the Greens are doing, ladies and gentlemen. – There should be visions that we should have peace in mind over and over again. It is important to me, ladies and gentlemen, that these visionaries continue to exist. But I am also in favour of the fact that there are divisionaries who care about our national defence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3325	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3346	Mr President. Minister! Today, one of my previous speakers expressed thanks to the cadre staff, because in some areas – at least said – salary cuts had to be accepted. – I think you can't let that go. You need to know what that means. I just wanted to explain: In fact, 150 million schillings had to be obtained in the field of the grant of use. "Become generated" means that 50 million schillings have been taken away from the cadre staff and that 50 million schillings have been used directly for budget recovery. 100 million schilling went to the Army Fees Act. Ladies and gentlemen! Take away 50 million schillings, that is not just a thank you, but one must ask the cadre staff to understand and hope that in the future another government will be at work, which not only has the zero deficit as the top command, but also sees the people behind it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Edellinger would take away much more!]] I would also like to tell you what this meant for these professional soldiers. In fact, they have made a threefold contribution in relation to the reduction of income: First of all, they were affected by the general increase in taxes. Secondly, the framework staff, consisting of public servants, were affected by the restriction on the right to pay and to pension, and for a third time on the Special Victim Law. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ofner! It's "rerule." We didn't want to, but you probably didn't want it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes, you're right! You didn't want it, but we wanted it!]] They always said that three-quarters of the population would not be burdened, ladies and gentlemen. But by this example, you can already see that this was untrue, which was always so outraged. And now to the budget in principle. – Mr Minister, in the debate on the budget accompanying laws, you meant that foreign operations were the most important task for you – or an important task; exactly – and you do not want a two-class army. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: One!]] I shall now report to you on the presence of the soldiers, as expressed to me by soldiers. There is currently great unrest in that the soldiers and cadres are aware that foreign operations are well equipped, while everyone else gets what remains. And it also turns out that the people who go to foreign operations usually, above the thumbs, are 70 percent military members. Minister! Obviously, there is also an incentive for the cadre staff, and perhaps the cadre staff even wants it. It should also be noted that there is an uncertainty in the staff position when the question is: What can the federal army do? I would like to ask the House to pursue a uniform goal, not the completion of ten, 15 other things, and possibly at the same time. [[Call to the Freeman: There is a target catalogue!]] But then you also have to carry the information where it is required, and not just leave it in the top ranks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Things are demanded that no one knows how to work. So the information is missing. Federal Minister! You have also said that 20 percent of the staff – about 2,000 planning posts – will shift you from the central offices to the commanders. If you look closer at the military age structure, you know that this will not be so easy. You said go to the force. How's that going? I also think it needs timely information from the staff of the cadre, it needs visions, it needs motivation, it needs preparation, it needs flexibility, it needs to apply for measures, and I believe it also needs cooperation with the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But that must not be heard by the Vrannitzky! He said who has visions belongs to the doctor!]] It needs information on vocational orientation, it needs incentive systems, it needs flexible entry and exit models, social plans and early retirement models. Otherwise, Minister, you will probably not be able to make the changeover or changeover. But you need a motivated staff to bring about a reform. And you have a motivated staff if you also give people a future of professional nature. As far as the KIOP forces are concerned, you have said that it is not necessary at the moment because we have taken precautions, but we are not yet so far international. I do not entirely believe this, Mr Minister, because in view of the government's announced destruction of 11 000 to 15 000 plantations, it will not be so easy to do, then if it is necessary, suddenly to get back planning sites. From an international point of view, we must insist on the budget target, that it should be a balanced budget, and we will not get additional planning points for the KIOP staff in 2003, not in 2004. I would therefore ask you, Minister: Meeting In this regard, they are in the form of social plans, early retirement models and also incentive models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3449	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear comrades soldiers and their officers, I greet you quite cordially. I would also like to welcome the military attachés, but many of them have already gone. [[Abg. Grabner: They've seen you come, and they've gone!]] – Thank you for the compliment, I know to "estimate". – Probably they considered our discussion of 0.3 thousandth percent to be necessary. Apparently just as the soldiers from a company that I received in the high house yesterday and who then asked me: Are not the Members responsible for receiving the same resources as those facing us? The tractor organizations have all forbearance devices, and we sit there and have to use our own phones in wireless rooms. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Grief: Who is in the government?]] – What should I explain to them? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: I still don't know who's in the government!]] [[Abg. Young: 15 years of pussy can't be eliminated in a year!]] Mr. Comrade Captain Kummerer! That's the point. What should I tell them? – The dictatorship of empty cash registers? Should I explain this to them? Should I say that the entire defense budget is one fifth of the interest we have to pay for the debts that have been received before? What should I tell them? I didn't do that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] I can't say now that I was ashamed, but I told them that the budget was, of course, designed according to the existing possibilities. It is all the more gratifying that the Federal Minister has now succeeded in getting an additional post to buy these night vision devices to buy these radios that are most urgently needed. And I think it is ridiculous when, two days ago, the Green Members, Mrs Lunacek, said that forbearance equipment and similar means of action are purchased. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you can all distinguish what is necessary for the equipment, what is needed, what means of action and what this has to do with upgrading. We bear responsibility for the soldiers, but it is also our duty to equip them in such a way that they can fulfil the mandate we give them. This is once the fundamental, and I think there is no discussion about it at all. Accordingly, the Federal Minister has made further savings within his own department. If you look at this – this is from Lower Austria, from the vicinity of Mistelbach – you will see the new top-level division here, and you will realize that in the top-level management just here, there is a saving that service posts are divided into other areas, and that the majority of the funds goes into those tasks that the team has to perform. [[Keeping a brochure in height]] I also see, in particular, the possibility of coming down from a former Mob strength of 300 000 men to 110 000 men. As a result, this further saving, which the Federal Minister immediately launched, is also possible. But this does not leave us out of the responsibility to get the necessary equipment that the soldiers need. I see that the Federal Minister has also taken a big step forward in this regard. You yourself have said in your speech: What did you ask for then, and what has now been done? – I'll talk to you in a moment, I'll tell you. At any rate, he made a very, very important matter by following the principle he expressed in his "press hour" on 14.1. Accordingly, it has now also been possible to buy the "Black Hawk". If you look at the budget now: What is possible? What is not possible? – I can tell you that with the 2002 budget expenditure, the following central tasks are further carried out: a limited maintenance of the Federal Army’s operation, maintenance of the training of the military officers, ensuring the assistance of the German army and the Federal Ministry of the Interior, ensuring the fulfilment of the international commitments entered into, the start of the procurement of armed multi-purpose helicopters and the continuation of the modernisation of the Federal Army’s equipment to an extent already fully bound. It is still quite a lot of what can be done here, and you see that it was also the efforts of the Federal Minister to use the expenditure of the budget optimally where most of it comes out. I read this morning in the press that you have a secret paper, a secret paper, which is said to have been written by honourable Member Kostelka and which provides for further savings for the German army, including a reduction in the entire service time. In this context, I would just like to make one more point, Mr Gaál, on 5 May. In this House on November 1, 1998, the following remarks were made: "In my opinion, the topic of the German army is to discuss responsibly and is not suitable for party-political Hick hack in the truest sense of the word." [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Accordingly, it would be appropriate for you, if you have proposals, to bring them in. Now, if you look on again – and I recommend this discussion of 5. To get out of the Internet in November 1998 – then you will see that the Federal Minister, who was then a Member of Parliament and our spokesman for defence issues, called for the re-establishment of helicopters. And that is what has now been done – at least something about these strained budget resources, which unfortunately you have to answer. [[turned to SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3569	I call Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3614	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Two sentences to my previous speaker were received. I'll hold on to this. The 2002 budget debt is the highest since 1945 and has developed since 1999 from 119 billion y to 124 billion j. [[Abg. Young: And if you say it so often: 2,000 billion you left behind! Red numbers!]] That means you don't need to talk about the debt of the FPÖ at all: They have created and are responsible for the highest debts in this state at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: This is almost childish!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and counter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I should also like to say to my previous speaker: With all kindness of discussion, criticism must nevertheless be allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget itself. – The "wind" government has promised that it will make everything new. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's what May does! We're not here yet! April is not even yet!]] You, Mr Federal Minister, in particular the FPÖ, represented a position which was: Clearly more money for the German army – from 5 to 7 billion here was the talk – and for the Wehr-Etat. And now? – No matter what you say about the federal army budget: As it now looks, you have not achieved this, Minister of State. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Do you want to make debts again, Mr. Parnigoni?]] You have not been able to enforce this, you have not been able to enforce it with your own Minister of Finance. That's a fact. Your credibility is deeply shaken here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: So if you were to run, Parliament would already have a pickerl on the door!]] Lip confessions are really that, Minister of the State! Secondly, There it is jeered and lamented that there is too little resources for assistance at the border, there were no night vision devices, that is, an intelligent procurement must come from. – I ask you – and I am also in favour of setting the right priorities and not distributing the money according to the principle of foundry – Mr Federal Minister: What kind of helicopter do you need for assistance use? – One that has transport capacity, or one that has war capacity? – If you had bought the one with transport capacity, you would have saved half a billion and had the necessary funds for the other investments. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: Now you come with the same shame as in the committee! You're not capable of learning! Or you deliberately claim something wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is important that we in the infrastructure be given priority to reducing operating costs because the resources to be saved can be made available for investment and for future tasks. I hope that you will then be able to enforce yourself as part of a budget overrun law with the Minister of Finance, so that you will have the necessary opportunities for the Austrian commitment towards Europe, towards KIOP. This is about the security of soldiers who have to volunteer and use their lives in the context of a European crisis management. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you recognize the problem of the so-called costs. It has already been said: The reduction in the army's size of 300 000 towards 100 000 has taken place. [[Abg. Boy: How much? About 300,000?]] - Of 300 000 towards 100,000. [[Abg. Boy: How much?]] The reduction from the former total mobility strength of 300 000 to 100 000 has already taken place in 1998, and of course we also have to think about these 100 000 men's strengths. [[Abg. Young: You're always talking about something you don't even know what you're saying! You always talk about what some secretary writes to you!]] But – but! – Mr Jung, the structure of the barracks, has not changed so far, and for the Ministry of Army, I am allowed to hold, until now a minister of the ÖVP has always been responsible. [[Abg. Young: So Parnigoni is for the resolution of barracks, of small barracks!]] Since, Mr Federal Minister, you have the right savings, and I just ask you: How will you bring that into line with your promises, for example in Weitra, where you will have an inventory guarantee... [[Abg. Young: Read today's newspapers!]] Don't talk like that, Mr. Jung. In Weitra, the Federal Minister clearly provided an inventory guarantee for these barracks. However, the experts say that a barracks that does not have a strong association has little opportunity and that in reality only an economic leadership is possible with a strong association. I hope that you will take the opportunity of taking appropriate measures to ensure that this barracks is secured in the future. – You know that this barracks is particularly distinguished by the fact that there is a high volunteer quota, that there is a high cadre strength, that there is a great practice area for it, and that there is a very good acceptance of the population, Minister of State. I would invite you to take a corresponding step in this direction in the interests of your own credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3817	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3838	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government Convention states that the Federal Government will make every effort to increase the performance of our federal army, to ensure the material conditions, and that the budget is planned to be increased gradually. As a Tyrolean from the Tyrolean Oberland, I am very glad that nine pieces of S-70 "Black Hawk" are purchased. I know you're going to say I'm not allowed to talk about Galtür, but I'm still saying it – and I'm thinking back with shudders, Mrs. Lichtenbergerer: At that time, it was shown that our old helicopters, 36 years old, are not sufficient in the event of alpine disasters. Until the big helicopters arrived, valuable time had to pass, and perhaps one could have evacuated Valzur at that time – perhaps. At the time, I also had to say with dismay that the greatest willingness to help would be of no use if the technical equipment was missing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For the purchase of the nine Black Hawks, which replace 36-year-old helicopters, a contract on the economic compensation of the purchase price was agreed at the end of December. This contract provides for a 200 percent compensation of the purchase price for a ten-year period. This contract is the largest in the history of compensation business in Austria, and I am grateful to Federal Minister Bartenstein for the excellent negotiation of this contract for the creation and maintenance of highly qualified jobs, for the promotion of research, development, technology transfer and for the additional export opportunities of Austria on the US market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also expected that there will be business links beyond these ten years, perhaps increasing profitability. Our Federal Minister Scheibner and the Evaluation Commission – and I am convinced – have also made the right choice. At first glance, the costs of 2.9 billion schilling appear higher, but the "Black Hawks" have lower operating costs compared to the French model, extremely high performance reserves, extensive safety equipment and, above all, excellent high mountain suitability. And given the geographical characteristics in the alpine region – and you had the direct comparison in Galtür – they are better suited for use in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! It may not be enough just to stand behind the federal army. Let's introduce ourselves to the Federal Army! The procurement of the "Black Hawks", which are intended for the recovery of Austrians in distress, for the protection of Austrians, for recovery from disaster areas, is also a humanitarian obligation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a Tyrolean, I would also like to thank you for the rapid selection process, because it is very reassuring for us in Tyrol that the largest Austrian aid organization, which is also the German army, is finally equipped accordingly. There can be a disaster in the alpine area at any time, suddenly and without warning.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3911	I speak as the next speaker, Mr Deputies' friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3932	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! No new debt – this goal has set itself this federal government, and, of course, this premise includes the national defence budget chapter. Austria has committed itself, in the spirit of European solidarity and for the purpose of ensuring the security of the Republic, to contributing to the development of a functioning European security and defence policy. In future, in addition to territorial defence tasks, international solidarity services will be the main priority. That is why the German army must already be prepared for these tasks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With the Helsinki decisions of 1999 – that is, in the times of a SPÖ Federal Chancellor – Austria has assumed a great responsibility. We have also committed ourselves to making a quota of 2,000 men available to the European armed forces within the framework of the KIOP, i.e. the crisis forces. The framework conditions for this are being created. The motivation of our soldiers is high. As an example, I would like to mention our barracks in Ried im Innkreis in Upper Austria, where more than 100 volunteers, including a high proportion of ground defense servants, have already registered for which KIOP. For me, it is almost a question of honour to equip this force with the European standard as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We politicians have responsibility for our soldiers. That is why it would be irresponsible to send our young men and women in crisis spots with obsolete equipment. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister, to pay special attention to these issues. The former Federal Government, in which the Social Democrats were also represented, has already committed itself by signing the Treaty of Amsterdam to the fulfilment of these Petersberg tasks. Now these Petersberger tasks include peacekeeping operations. But our soldiers are already doing great things, especially in border operations, in the various assistance missions, in disaster aid, not only in floods, but also in cleaning up after storm disasters. Even in avalanches, our army is always in place if others can no longer continue. Our citizens are often helped quickly in a wayless situation. That is why more attention needs to be paid to the basic defence servants and their care. Adequate accommodation, good food as well as a functioning infrastructure are a prerequisite for this. This federal government has written on the flags to curate the army. Carrying responsibility means letting actions speak. The first purchases for the army have already arrived. For example, the Federal Minister informed us that a pioneer bridge, modern simulators, wheel tanks and other equipment had been purchased. This government isn't just talking, it's acting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious security policy, because at worst we all, including the critics, are happy when our soldiers are on hand. Our soldiers are willing to offer sacrifices for this country. That is why they deserve our respect and our support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4006	Mr Niederweiser spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask you to comply with the relevant provisions of the GMO. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4031	Mr President. Minister! High house! As a preliminary speaker, Mr Stadler explained that the purchase of the "Black Hawk" helicopter is logical from the avalanche disaster of Galtür. [[Abg. Großruck: This is not a correction!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: This is an evaluation!]] No, colleague Stadler argued with the accident in Galtür the purchase of the "Black Hawk". [[Abg. Böhacker: This is not an actual correction!]] That's wrong. Rather, it is true that not the "black Hawks" were flown in Galtür when the weather was bad, but the "black Hawks" were flown when it became beautiful again and the mass transports from the valley were carried out. [[Abg. Zweytick: So did they fly?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] They have flown under the risk of life, the Austrian pilots, with the old machines and have saved people at a time when the "Black Hawks" are standing on the ground. [[Abg. Young, too!]] [[Abg. Young: What's that got to do with the federal army?]] This is the truth, not what Mr Stadler has said here. [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Young: Now, however, you do wrong to the Americans and the Germans! That's unheard of! These people who have flown as non-Austrians in Austria! This is unheard of, colleague.]] And it is true that the Federal Government has decided to purchase transport helicopters. What you're buying there are combat helicopters that cost half a billion more.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4168	Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very peaceful mood in the National Defence Chapter, and that is why I am content to say: Next Monday we will distribute to all 183 members of the House a guide for actual corrections, and then everyone will see that, for example, this has not been an ideal type according to this guide. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mrs Pepper has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4199	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Every year, tractor belts in the EU area earn up to 70 billion schilling. The towed people come mainly from economically poorer countries and often have to invest their entire assets to pay the tugs. In this context, they not only put their health at risk, but sometimes also their lives at risk. A total of 45,730 people have arrived and been detained illegally in Austria in 2000. This is a 6.8% increase compared to 1999. [[Abg. Böhacker: (in the direction of the speaker) Are you involved in "life lights"?]] - We discussed this issue yesterday. – Only by using assistance can a lot be prevented and a high level of safety guaranteed for the population. It is important to keep in mind that the people concerned are treated and exploited by the tractors. Their human dignity, despite illegal crossing of borders, must not be trampled with feet again. The fact that the Federal Government in the last Council of Ministers decided to extend the German army's assistance efforts by 2002 is welcome, but not more than an interim solution. The actual decision on how to continue with the German army's assistance efforts in the future has only been postponed. The Federal Government's plan to sacrifice the security of the Burgenland and Lower Austrian border remains the same. Minister Grasser's statement that the German army should be released from this task in the medium term is a clear indication. Neither a thinning of the assistance use nor an exchange between the federal army and customs guard can be a useful solution in this context. Unfortunately, the uncertainty of the population will only continue with this policy, both in terms of security and economic aspects. Many accommodation establishments have set up and invested to accommodate the soldiers and their superiors. The Federal Government still lacks clear and clear assurance to continue the use of assistance. Moreover, what is missing – and I urge this to be repeated here in the House – is the statement that punishment alone cannot be an effective measure to combat towing. This only combats the symptoms and not the social causes. I therefore urge the Federal Government to deal with prevention and to make procedures more effective, on the basis of human rights. Human rights must be a matter of course for all of us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Friend: Is she too!]] However, helping other people must also be a matter of course. I also see border use as an aid to those concerned. The SPÖ is therefore strongly opposed to abandoning the use of assistance in the medium term. I too would like to thank from this point of view all the soldiers and their superiors who do their work in the field of assistance, on behalf of the entire population and, above all, the citizens of Burgundy for their commitment to the border.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4260	Next speaker is Mrs Hartinger. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4290	You will be laughing, Mr. Schwemlein. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: He hasn't laughed at home for a long time!]] Mr President. Minister! Acceptance, confidence in and faith in our federal army are the prerequisites for the security of our country and therefore of utmost importance. If Mr Edlinger said that the military was not as important as the people in our country, I must say: Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, you did not understand something because the Federal Army is responsible for the security of people in our country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A modern federal army also requires an adequate budget, modern equipment and motivated soldiers. And there is one thing I must say, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats: On the one hand, you say: We need to save, we're spending too much!, on the other hand, you say: The Minister has fought too little, has too little budget! – I understand Your strategy is not so complete, because Mr Parnigoni demands more money on the one hand and asks whether barracks will be preserved, but then I read surprisingly in today's edition of the "Press", he calls for a reduction of five to three brigades and a reduction in the number of small barracks. – Yes, please, how can this be understood? On the one hand, you ask the Minister whether the small barracks are preserved, on the other hand, you ask to close them. I don't understand your policy anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the typical dual nature of the SPÖ. I can only tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: I am glad that the Minister of Defense is a more liberal, because if you were in the government if one of you were a Minister of Defense, the German army would probably already be abolished. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaál:... has the biggest budget!]] - So I see that something different, but please. Modernising and creating slim structures is a task that we have to face in the field of defence. I am pleased, above all, with three things that the Minister has started. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Only three?- Oh, my God!]] - For example, three things. There are so many things, but my speaking time is too short to be able to list all. The first point is the opening of the army hospital Stammersdorf in the 21st century. District for the civilian population. The fact is that the capacity of this modern hospital with 177 beds can easily accommodate the catchment area of the districts of Floridsdorf and Donaustadt with about 200,000 people. Thanks to the good infrastructure especially in the areas of accident surgery, eyes, ENT and dermatology, this hospital would be an ideal primary hospital. [[Abg. Zweytick: It's a great story!]] Our minister understands it perfectly so that not only the excellent human and investment resources can be used and their quality secured by increasing frequency, but also the synergies between the civilian and the army. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: They have been doing this for a long time in Innsbruck!]] The second point is a very interesting one, namely the modern federal army. I would like here, for example, the 4. This year, a controlling was introduced and a process cost bill was introduced. These are modern strategies that we need and that we also implement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The controlling instrument provides important results to target the use of existing resources. The aim is to achieve the best possible results by means of the available resources. The process cost calculation gives the most important data, namely, in addition to the cost collection, also the degree of achievement by checking all recruits. The third point I would like to make as a woman is of course: Women in the army. Currently, about 150 soldiers belong to the German army, including five officers, seven professional officers and 16 sub-offenders. The Federal Army is one of the largest employers in Austria and is thus also a future opportunity for many women. This too is a dedicated project of our Minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In summary, I can say: The future of our federal army and the security of Austria lies in a more liberal and therefore in good hands. With this, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens can sleep well.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4423	The next speaker is Mr Grabner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4444	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Every federal government reform since 1990 has been discussed about adapting the federal army's infrastructure to the actual needs of the army. That was also in the reform... – Stay with agriculture! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You have an idea of that, but in the federal army you have no idea! [[Call the ÖVP:Grabner, stay at the sport!]] This was also the case in the 1992 reform as well as in the 1998 structural adjustment. The sales potential arising from the plans of that time moves in an order of around 2.5 billion schilling. But it doesn't matter. The Ministry of Defence does not make any efforts to sell barracks and military properties, although they are partly lucrative land, as they are now in residential areas. It is self-evident that an excellent sales proceeds can be achieved with these objects. [[Abg. Böhacker: Ask your country politicians what they say when everything is sold!]] All the more urgent, ladies and gentlemen, is the need to sell the properties, as Finance Minister Grasser left his party colleagues, the Minister of Defence, alone in the 2001 budget and in the 2002 budget. The "friendliness" shown by the Minister of Finance towards the Ministry of Defence is based on the fact that the funds for agriculture – apologies, national defence – are increasingly shrinking. - I thought of you. [[in the direction of the Abg. Auer]] Revenue from the sale of military properties and barracks could be spent on the urgently needed modernisation. There is the need to adapt the team accommodation to modern standards. This concerns not only the often outdated inventory, but above all the mass accommodation has to be eliminated. The present-day servants deserve their service for the general public, for the Republic of Austria, modern, hygienic and useful accommodations. Bad accommodations increase the frustration of the groundmen. This, in turn, results in a negligent fulfillment of the service, causing damage to the quality of the force. There are still barracks, ladies and gentlemen, in which up to 50 people are housed in a room – or better expressed: put together. [[Abg. Zweytick: Four-Star Category-Kasernen!]] - I know that. You've got your farm, you've got enough space. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Sometimes you use mobile wooden walls to share the rooms. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where did you serve? Which barracks did you serve in?]] In the absence of financial expenditure, these shortcomings will continue to exist. In a number of – especially older – barracks, the plaster leaves the walls and closes the windows extremely badly. There are accommodations that can be soddenly described as desolating and dangerous to health for our soldiers. As a result of structural shortcomings, hygiene is particularly affected. As no effort is made to acquire money that could be spent on modernising accommodation by selling military equipment, the health of the recruits is still at risk. Minister of Defense Scheibner, on the one hand, complains of the lack of financial resources from his place of business and, on the other hand, fails to exploit the possibility of receiving money. So it remains to be hoped for the future, Minister of Defense, that you will not only understand the acquisition of overt fights of helicopters – we stand for the purchase of helicopters – but also the implementation of the existing possibilities to raise money so that the modernisation of military infrastructure, constructions can finally proceed. I say again: We stand to the federal army, we stand to buy the helicopters, but not the 500 million schillings more expensive. With this money we could have done a lot different in the federal army. I've already said: Around this 500 million schillings, 10,000 students could study for five years free. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another thing: It is always said that the Social Democrats are guilty. I told Mrs. Vice-Chancellor yesterday: In 30 years of social-democratic government, many mistakes have occurred, but as many mistakes as the present one year of government has not occurred in these 30 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Do you know what we could buy about the interest rates?]] And if you are talking about the SPÖ and the German army – just friend Ofner: I didn't know the last five defense ministers were from the SPÖ. There was a freshener, a krunes, a lyche – and what was the last minister's name? I think he is now the second president of the National Council. That was all the Social Democrats? – They were the incompetents who left behind what is the state of the federal army today!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4571	The next speaker is Mr Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4592	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Wehrbudget debate like that has something good. It separates more sharply than in many other areas, who use it for gagly comparisons and calculations and who is really willing to take responsibility for a substantial part of the state gap. [[Abg. Murauer: Right!]] Because how else can you understand comparisons of helicopters with tuition fees? [[Abg. Grabner: 500 million...!]] Mr President, I should like to thank What do you think about how many helicopters you could have bought for the interest rate that your debts caused? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] What are we really supposed to do with comparisons when artificial subsidies are charged against night vision devices or ambulance charges against the army budget, as has already been said today? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] I ask you: Are you serious about this? Do you seriously think that we are going to send our soldiers to Kosovo or other areas of crisis, for example, because the president of the main association does not get in control of the cost of cures over years? [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] We will not do that, and we will ensure the appropriate money and equipment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, the budget for national defence is also a sign of national effort to achieve zero re-indebtedness. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry, nothing done!]] We stand to this goal, but I give you to bear in mind: An area that has so far been kept tight – and I even say, too narrowly held – is more difficult to save than other areas that have been created from the full until now. We therefore carry this budget, but do not forget that it will be necessary, after successfully overcoming the financial debacle that you have left us, to ensure a corresponding dosage of the national defence in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Thank you for being able to call at least the last Minister of Defence. You do not know who is the second or third President of the National Council, Mr Grabner. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I believe, however, that it is necessary to acknowledge, especially in the sign of this savings budget, that, despite difficult conditions, the staff of the department and the soldiers of the federal army show an unbroken service and commitment, and I would like to thank myself for it on behalf of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4735	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4762	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jung and Mr Graf. Mr. Jung said he took over "red numbers" from us. - That's where I can correct you. They have taken over from us an Austria with the highest prosperity, with the highest employment rate, with the lowest unemployment rate, with a debt ratio below the European average and with a tax rate on the European average. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Murauer: Go, stop! Higher indebtedness!]] You have taken over the fourth largest country in Europe! [[Abg. Murauer: Debt like a staff officer!]] Mr Graf! If you also address the debt, I may point out that the debt in Austria has never been as high as it is now. It is 83 billion Schilling higher than in 1999, and you will produce 31 million Schilling debt every day with the 2002 budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say once again, I think, that last speaker of my group draws your attention to border protection. At the beginning, I am able to make it clear that I am clearly a federal army and that I would also like to extend my thanks to my colleagues to the German army, namely to all the organisations involved, including the Gendarmerie and the customs guard, which, together with the German army, are exemplary in their border deployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no doubt that 1989 in the field of security policy has brought new challenges to us through the increased illegal migration and towing. In 1990 it was the SPÖ, which the German army has used as a bearing pillar for efficient border surveillance. The result is known to you; at least for the population on the border, the result is a success story. That is why we want this border protection to be preserved in the future, until the new Eastern European members of the EU are able to secure their eastern border in accordance with the rules. It is therefore incomprehensible to me, Mr Federal Minister, that now that East Development is foreseeable, the security of the people of this saving will should be subordinated to this severance. Nor do we understand, Minister of State, that you and your colleagues, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance, are permanently uncertain with your power struggles or jealousy. I am very glad that the request of the Government of Burgenland, namely to preserve border protection to the full extent agreed by the colleagues of the ÖVP and FPÖ, then forced the Council of Ministers to act – albeit late – to act. Unfortunately, the result is not a result, and there is also a clear commitment to the continuation of this border protection. [[Abg. Young: Who will confess to the eternal continuation of a provisional, Mr. Collegue?]] It is incomprehensible to all those involved and, above all, to the people, when statements are made, such as the Minister of Defence, who believes that the soldiers are being subtracted already at the beginning of the next year, that is, in a few months, and, on the other hand, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who believes that he is glad that it has succeeded in removing the border operation in the long term. – Apparently, the two gentlemen were at different events. But it shows at least in what short time units the Federal Chancellor thinks. – Clearly, the Federal Chancellor feels that his end has already begun. [[Abg. Wattaul: But this is your dream!]] I should like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to end the uncertainty policy internally and externally. I would ask you to stand up for the maximum protection of Austria and its people. And I can ask you to work for greater efficiency and, above all, for more motivation in the Federal Army. The existing shortcomings have already been addressed several times: Man equipment, technical equipment, even the lack of clear orders – all of this must, of course, lead to de-motivation and chaos! They, on the other hand, devote themselves to the acquisition of interception hunters and want to spend 30 to 40 billion schilling on this. I must say that I am not opposed to it in principle, but first of all I must be sure of financing. [[Abg. Murauer: Just like the Dragons!]] And, I believe, we are also aware that these 24 interception hunters cannot be a defense, but at best can have a symbolic function. In any event, the financing must be secured in advance. In addition, it is necessary to complete the structural reform of the air forces in advance. This, in turn, requires a comprehensive military definition, the basis of which, of course, is the new Security Doctrine, which, in turn, requires the prior clarification of the European security issue. Federal Minister! There are a number of really important tasks. That is why I invite you not to devote yourself to small wars, but to these really big problems. You can be sure that we will help our part to achieve reasonable solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4877	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If we are honest, we must admit that the Austrian federal army has never had sufficient financial resources at its disposal. In general, it was always set on spa flames. There were probably some activities according to the respective security situation, but I do believe that it is not the appropriate time to shift the blame for why the German army does not receive the necessary resources. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, with various statements like: We need slimmer structures! Not in agreement. The German army is slim enough, the German army only needs modern structures – and Federal Minister Scheibner stands for it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Recently, many – and above all positive – arguments for border use have been put forward. I would like to remind you that it has never been safe since the establishment of the border in Burgenland – neither for the federal army, for the soldiers, nor for the population there – how long it takes. It has always been extended step by step, and it is therefore nothing new if the border use has now been extended by two years. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Army has always fulfilled its tasks to protect the population to the fullest satisfaction. In this sense, I would like to take the opportunity of today's debate to thank, in particular, the recruits and the leaders of our army for their achievements. [[We welcome the liberals, the ÖVP and the representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps we and many sports functionaries and public officials are also thinking that the Austrian federal army is not there to provide any assistance for major events. But I would like to remind you, above all in the technical field, of the IFMIN system, which meets all the requirements for holding such events as the World Ski Championships, which facilitates them and allows them to run smoothly. Of course, you should also see this positively. I believe that Federal Minister Scheibner is also a guarantee for the future that the garrisons will be preserved mainly at the economic and security level. This is of course also important. If someone finds out from this pult that some barracks are not yet quite in order, that maybe some accommodations are still lacking, then, ladies and gentlemen, I must say: It is the task of every regional politician to act there and to show how good he is so that such abuses can be eliminated. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] In addition, I do not believe that there is still such mass accommodation that has been spoken of here. Ladies and gentlemen! If you talk about the use and purchase of these new helicopters and say that they are too expensive, as has already been done here by a Member of Parliament, I tell you: Our pilots were still in use with the old helicopters when the new helicopters have not been purchased for a long time. That was dangerous! Imagine: If our pilots fly with the new helicopters now, they can fly in any situation and in any weather! This is positive, and Austria has recognised pilots! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out that not only the acquisition of helicopters, but also the personal man equipment is important. That is why, despite savings measures, it is of course also important for the health of the soldiers that testing combat suits and man equipment for the future is a top priority. I think we need not only motivated soldiers and executives in the Austrian Federal Army, we also need a motivated house that stands for this federal army. That's why I can be quite calm; a man stands for it and looks at it: Federal Minister Scheibner!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4984	The next speaker is Mrs Lunacek. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5006	Mr President. Minister! High house! At first, I have to make a small correction. Mr Herbert Graf von den Liberties previously confused Mrs Stoisits and me in his speech. [[Abg. Murauer: This is not a mistake!]] Mr Graf, in your group there are two written by name "Graf". I mean, it might happen that they're confused. But that you confuse the names "Stoisits" and "Lunacek", two so typical Eastern Austrian names, that has already surprised me very much. That is not what I said, but the colleague Stoisits. [[Call to the liberals: Perhaps you have the same voice!]] But now on the topic of today's military budget. Federal Minister! They have written on the question contained in one of our requests, which costs for international organisations have increased in such a way that the amount from 2000 to 2002, in the answer to the question that Austria's accession to the Panel II of the Western European Armaments Group is the reason for this, and that this amount will be about half a million schilling from 2002 onwards, including the contribution for research and development, in total 38 000 j per year. . Well, this is a contribution that has become a threat, a contribution to the international organisations, for which this Western European armaments group is very much contributing. At the same time, however, and this has been decided to halve the contribution of Austria to the UN troops, to those who have been contributing to a very great picture of Austria for years and decades abroad. You, too, always say that Austria has to prove how solidaric it is at international level, so we have to be on our way to NATO after all. In recent years and decades in crisis areas, the Austrian soldiers have often proved that Austria is in solidarity with the international community! But these contributions, such as Austrian intervention in Cyprus, are dissolved. The halving of the quota has already been decided, and soon the Austrian troops will withdraw completely there. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this respect, there is a reduction, and that is the wrong direction for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the one hand, the Western European armaments group, the R & D in the area of arms, on the other hand, will be able to secure peace where one can really intervene in order to secure peace, so that there are no armed conflicts, no more war disputes, the means are cut. That's the wrong direction! It is also going in the wrong direction as far as the Eurocorp is concerned. It is decided – but there is nothing in the budget. They say that it is not on the agenda yet, that it is not yet so far, that it is still coming. [[Abg. Young: Come on!]] ==References====External links== Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, said to read on October 2, 2000. I'm just wondering: What? Extra-budgetary is not really going to do this, and so argue as with the interceptors that there are counter-businesses, which are anyway extra-budgetary, you can't really do with the Eurocorp. So how can I ask you, Minister Scheibner, to finance this approximately 1 billion – or whatever – over the next few years? You have not yet given us an answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] We will certainly not finance it, Mr Wattaul! We won't get the money from us. [[Abg. Wattaul: You're just criticizing!]] Something else, Minister Scheibner. Last week I was really very amazed and positively surprised – it does not happen so often that Greens respond positively to statements from you – when you said: No extension of the KFOR mandate towards Macedonia, no Austrian troops to Macedonia! I thought: Great! Finally, Minister of Defence Scheibner is doing exactly what we say, namely to put the ideas of peace in the foreground rather than the military-political ambitions. He did not say, as the Foreign Minister said, that this KFOR mandate should be extended, but he said: No, we won't! I then became curious about whether the Minister of Defence will also demand other things, such as: stronger civil action, more negotiation, more media, more input into the EU, whether he will perhaps also say to the Foreign Minister that there is more to be done in the media, in the diplomatic field, for example, in education, in civil society. I didn't hear anything about that. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I said!]] – Well, then I take note that you said that. But then I thought of something else. Last week we had a campaign for Vienna, and I thought: Perhaps this was also a condition for the election. I'm still not sure why you said that. I'd like to know. I have been afraid that the second reason, namely the Vienna election campaign, was decisive, but I do not know. Maybe you're going to disprove me and tell me that They are very likely to go in this direction, that is, away from the military policy in a peaceable direction. As far as Macedonia is concerned, we very much agree that it is necessary to secure the borders between Macedonia and Kosovo. We welcome this. That is necessary. This would have been the NATO, if the KFOR troops had done that from the beginning. Similarly, the KFOR troops – and there has been a bit missed – should have disarmed Albanian guerrillas in Kosovo too, so that they do not have the opportunity to operate guerrillaally in Macedonia again. [[Abg. Murauer: Who disarms them?]] But the Foreign Minister had the idea of using the NATO troops in Macedonia now, exactly those troops that stood on the side of the Albanians in the Kosovo war and now stand on the other side. These troops are just party! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] But it looked like you really can't disagree with me. [[Abg. Young: The Austrians were on no one...!]] Not the Austrians, the KFOR troops as a whole. These troops are not neutral! This is one of the main reasons why, in our view, it is not possible to use it in Macedonia, apart from the fact that the Macedonian government does not want it at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What it is about in the region is stabilisation, and it is not possible to achieve militaryly. In order to say this perhaps also clearly: Of course, the interests of the Albanian minority in Macedonia are serious, but also differentiated. What always stands in the room is the demand that they be recognized as their own national people. [[Abg. Young: They won't give peace before!]] The recognition they already have is that as a people group. But there is still a lot missing, there is still a lot of implementation, especially in the field of education. A university alone, for example, is not enough. Much more education is needed in primary and secondary education. It needs to be further developed, but to recognize this minority as a national people, I warn. [[Abg. Großruck: That's not what anyone wants!]] – This is already said by the Albanians, and this is partly put into space. [[Abg. Grossruck: The Albanians, but not the Europeans!]] The Bosnia-Herzegovina Petritsch has also said very precisely that this nation-formation is something that poses the risk of a secession. [[Abg. Boy: Horrible!]] I know, Mr Jung, that you are very much in favour of this, but I think it is necessary to focus on the stability of the region as a whole. Finally, the Security Doctor, Mr Scheibner, mentioned by you and also in the debate which has been mentioned many times. They said earlier that we must ensure that this crisis in Macedonia does not become a fire of land. That's right! You have also said quite correctly: In the event of crises, one must start in a way that they do not arise at all, one must prevent a fire on the surface, and if all of this is no longer possible, one must intervene in a military way. [[Abg. Murauer: Right!]] But you also said that no one knows what will happen in the next five to ten years, and that no one knows whether such crisis fires may not be brought back to our borders. Minister! Has You really read this security doctor, this analysis part? That's where it says: It is not to be expected that in the next few years – up to ten – there will be such crises in our neighbouring area that can cross Austria. - It's in the Security Doctor. [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] – Military threat, I understand it, if you say that crisis fires are being brought to our borders. [[Abg. Murauer: An attack on Austria!]] It is already my view that there are threats to the Austrian border regions at the borders. That this can happen, you put it in the room earlier! In the Security Doctrine, in the analysis section presented by you, is decreed in that there are no these threats and that one can exclude them for the next ten years. For this reason alone, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, I would like to see this subcommittee of the National Defence Committee set up for four months, where we can now finally discuss it, and I hope that the Foreign Council will soon be convened, where we can discuss this, so that it does not have to be postponed again and again. I know an appointment was cancelled due to the holding of a special meeting, but we have been waiting for a new appointment for more than two weeks. My appeal to the conclusion: that there is at last a public and open debate on this Security Doctrine so that precisely these points, which are now contradictory to me, can be discussed openly!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5244	Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5265	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to deal with the Greens on military defence issues of security policy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is one another, Mr. Colleague!]] Those who reject the principle that there is a military defence at all, for whom it is difficult to reach an agreement on some detail. Let us take note of this, that is so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But what shocked me in this debate is the change of argumentation at SPÖ. Especially from the mouth of Anton Gaáloder of my colleague, Kummerer, who, in their argumentation, always went quite differently to hear these words, is truly remarkable. We have always heard from you that the state defense has too little money, in fact the Minister of Defense should ensure that the federal army is better equipped and equipped. Today we have heard from you that, as long as there is this social policy of the Federal Government, there should be no increase at all, even any issue in the field of national defence should be questioned. [[Abg. Gaál: That is a wrong conclusion! We have said that the population will not understand!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very dangerous path you are going here. This is a way of populism in security policy, which does not stand with your previous role, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore urge you to return to your political responsibility as a party. Security policy has nothing to do with populism, and there is a question of seriality and responsibility. I am just expecting colleagues from SPÖ, who are very comfortable with the defence of the country, to use other words here. If one reads today's "Press", one must say that it is the presumption that another "Stallorder" was issued in the SPÖ. When you try to get security policy, military defence back to the motto: A few months are enough!, with a reduction in military service time or with it – as you have suggested today – that you question the basic structure of the federal army, ladies and gentlemen, then we are on the completely wrong path from the outset. I'll warn you about this way! It is important that we really have a basic conversation. I would like to make a specific proposal: We'll be on 19. April has the opportunity to set up a subcommittee of the National Defence Committee, in which, following the presentation of the analysis section of the Security and Defence Doctrine, we can discuss the problems that are important to us: What should the structure of the federal army look like when we redefine the tasks? How should we continue in the European framework? How does the Eurocorp look, what will that mean in the structure of the federal army? What do we need for domestic assistance? How can we meet the calls for UN assistance? – These are the questions we need to deal with. But do not go to the level to say that social expenditure must be included in military expenditure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I ask you to do this and really would like to ask you: Go with us the way to reorientate yourself in a serious way to this situation, draw the right conclusions from it, and then jointly – I really invite you to – re-establish a security doctor for Austria! I'm asking you to do this! Unsolicited You make statements like those I have mentioned and try to move in a different direction even those in your party who spend these "stall orders"! I'm asking you to do this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5337	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5358	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In its speeches on the assistance of the Austrian Federal Army, some Members have expressed their views, and the government has been accused several times by representatives of the opposition, who would have been insecure to the population in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot understand this accusation, for it was not representatives of the government parties who in public statements were insecure to the people by expressing fears that border security would be reduced, but these were representatives of social democracy, both at national and federal level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that it has never been doubted that border security at the present level must not only be maintained, but, on the contrary – and this has also been my aim – that better technical equipment should really achieve a comprehensive control of the border. And that was achieved with the current decision. But, of course, it was also my desire as Minister of Defense to point out clearly that after ten years of provisorium, we must finally come to ensure that a constitutional state is established. And you know that very well, because already in 1990, when you set up this assistance service, there was an opinion from the Constitutional Service, which clearly stated that such an assistance can only be a temporary assistance for the really responsible interior. If this assistance was used for a longer period of time, one would have to create its own constitutional basis. However, you have not done this in ten years! And in ten years' time, your Social Democratic Minister of the Interior has not managed to secure this border from his own resources – although, unlike the Federal Ministry of State Defense, he has received the money, even though he has received the staff! – ensure. The current Federal Government has set the course. We have clearly ensured that the assistance commitment will be extended for the first time until 2002, that not, as always, only an annual extension takes place. [[Abg. Leikam: 2002 is in eight months!]] We have ensured that the technical equipment takes place at an appropriate level, and our aim is to ensure that the relevant body, namely the interior unit, can take over this border control while maintaining the quality itself. Until this is achieved, the Austrian federal army will naturally support this task. It has also been noted that, as from the 2003 budget, the necessary funds will also be made available to that resort, which will take over the border guarantee. I don't know what else you have to criticize here. It is clearly ensured: The constitutional status is to be made, the assistance is secured, and the funds are also made available! [[Abg. Leikam: Who? With what people?]] So, actually, should be. They welcome this scheme and do not criticize it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Hagenhofer referred to the grant of the aid. It has, however, forgotten that this is in fact a structural measure which is constantly being called for. There was a compromise with regard to the grant of assistance. However, you have forgotten to say that by means of these measures we can achieve that the basic defence servants who bear the main burden of these assistant forces from 1st century onwards. In April the month will be more than 1 000 S. They have forgotten to say that we have crisis supplements to also create a weighting among the assistants. They have forgotten to say that foreign operations are now also being taught higher. And you also forgot to say that the Litera a case is much better taught in § 2 Wehrgesetz, namely the military state defense. – This should also be said if you practice criticism in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, Mrs Lunacek said that the planned measures in Macedonia, the requirement not to extend the KFOR mandate, had been an electoral campaign by me. I can answer that, Mrs Lunacek: You will have to take note that in the performance of my duties as Minister of Defense, I am not obliged to any party, not my own, nor elections, but only to carry out the tasks of the Austrian federal army and the greatest possible security of our soldiers! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I said that an extension of the KFOR mandate in Macedonia would not make sense for several reasons. On the one hand, the situation in Macedonia is fortunately not comparable to that in Kosovo. There is a functioning government there, and one has to support it – through economic action, including through infrastructure, the transfer of know-how, also from the political side! An extension of the KFOR mandate would therefore be the wrong signal. I have also made it clear that I am also advocating – you have suggested this a little – the failure of policy, and that is a failure of policy, international policy, including the European Union, always apologies that NATO, KFOR or the military have failed. The military is only Ultima Ratio for political solutions that we are waiting for throughout the Balkans. I hope that, at last, there will be a common security policy of the European Union, where one works preventively, where one operates crisis management, so that in future we will no longer have to resort to military capabilities. You have raised a alleged objection to the threat scenarios, Mrs Lunacek. – If you have read the safety doctor, if you have read the analysis section, you will know that one of the threat scenarios is the completely uncontrolled use of nuclear, biological and chemical martial substances and that no one can guarantee whether in the next five or ten years those states that have these martial substances will also use them – through carrier systems that could also endanger Austrian safety. This was meant by the remark: Conflicts that are far away, but which can also be addressed at our borders. We should also take this into account in the discussion on the Security and Defence Doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grabner has still mentioned the sales of barracks. Over the next two years, a potential of over 400 million schilling from sales is planned. I just hope – You are also all regional delegates – that you will also have an influence on your local representatives and on your regional structures, that there will be no delays there. When it comes to making this possible only by means of reciprocity and consent to such sales, we note that the willingness to support will be much lower than that previously announced. I say quite frankly to you, ladies and gentlemen, also about social democracy: If I correctly assess the measures you are calling for today's press, I wonder what the basis and the basis for planning it is. You can already say today that with 60,000 men Mob strengths you will find out. I also do not know how you explain this contradiction: to work at the regional level for barracks sites, but to demand that you reduce locations in your concept! I think you should go a reasonable way here. We should now fully define the future tasks for Austrian defence in the Security and Defence Doctrine, because only on the basis of these tasks will we make clear planning – what should the strength of the army look like, where are the locations, what is the military division like? – implement and can also answer the questions of the military system accordingly. – This would be a sensible step plan, rather than, by perhaps popular, sometimes populist demands, in reality, contradicting the intentions of the Austrian state defense! If we find ourselves on this consensual path – I wish – then we will also be able to find a good way for the future of the Austrian federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5433	Mrs Hagenhofer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, please start by playing the claim to be corrected and by contrasting the corrected facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5457	Mr President. The Minister of Defence has said that I would have forgotten that funds have been used to increase the allocations, I would have forgotten that the recruits now receive a corresponding reward for the assistants on the border in Burgenland. I'm actually putting it right: Federal Minister! I have said that 50 million schillings have been taken away from the officials through the grant law, transferred to the budget, and the rest, namely 100 million schillings, I have also said, is managed through the Army Fees Act. This is what I meant by those allowances you have referred to, and I have said so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5490	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Ofner. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5511	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to deal with the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Lunacek. It has taken the view that it is necessary to be careful when assessing the political and legal situation of the Albanian people in Macedonia. I believe that it is not possible to proceed as rigidly as you understand it and as you also represent it, because where would the Austrian minorities, the ethnic groups in our country, come from when we dealt with them according to similar criteria? People's group is a people's group – no matter how big it is. We have expressed the view in the government's government's decision that all groups are equally involved in the state structure and in it. One will not be able to make the criterion – the They approved the example of Macedonia – that they said: Then there is the danger of secessionism. Right must be the same everywhere. If a people's group is large and begins to stand on its back legs and to claim the right to self-determination – which is still valid – then you must not say: We would rather not recognize them, otherwise we would promote these efforts! Either – or! Either one takes the position of states such as France, which at every corner and at every end have ethnic groups within its borders, but which disputes and says: There is no one with us, there is only French and nothing else at all! or you take a legal and political correct position! Then there are minorities, then there are groups of people, and even if it should somehow be uncomfortable, it will have to be recognized and not divided into good and bad ones. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But this must have been just a prelude of my short statements. I would like to report to the House from the work of the Federal Committee on Complaints, known as an institution of Parliament, an institution whose chairman I currently have the honour to be. You know that in the Wehrgesetz, on the occasion of the re-introduction of the General Military Obligation decades ago, this Commission of Appeal was set up, because the legislator wanted to have a simple, unbureaucratic feedback from the sides of the basic defence servants, especially in relation to the legislator. It is a parliamentary body, the three chairmen, from the three largest groups in the House, are elected here in plenary. The remaining six members shall be sent from the parties represented after the composition of the main committee. There is an obligation to report to the House. The Commission – although not very well formulated in grammatical terms – is located in the Federal Ministry of Defence. In reality, it is a bit different from the historical legislator's. It is not only basic defence servants who make use of the right of appeal, which is granted to them – about 50 percent of them are basic defence servants – but all levels and all levels and all degrees of service. This is from the complaint of the ground defense officer who does not feel treated accordingly to the appeal of the Lieutenant Lieutenant of the Supreme and Brigadier on the Divisional and Divisional matters of the General. So it's really the whole army of it. What can the Board of Appeal do and do? – It may conclude that the complainant has rightly complained. It may conclude that the complainant has rightly complained. And it cannot deal with the complaint at all, for example, because the appeal is so minor that the Board of Appeal does not deal with it on the basis of the relevant legal provision. But the true effectiveness is not there, on the basis that I have just mentioned, that the Board of Appeal has, until now, always – or perhaps with a single exception – made a unanimous recommendation to the Minister, who then sets out the appropriate measures, but it is that, during the course of the procedure on the basis of the complaint, the malaises on which it is concerned are generally reduced quickly and unbureaucratically. More than 2000 telephone interventions are made by affected soldiers, military members will be sent to the Board of Appeal's office in the year, and often the provision of appropriate information on the telephone or the forwarding of any wishes or ideas on the phone will be sufficient to eliminate the problem and no formal complaint at all. The number of complaints is currently rising; it has been falling for a short time, now it is rising again. This is not an alarm signal, but only a sign that the individual army members know that they can complain, and that they do so when they believe that they are right. The climate within the Complaints Commission – which is cross-group; there is also the Liberal Forum in it, because at the time when the Complaints Commission was sent, the Liberal Forum was also represented in the main committee – is very good. All the political groups, from the Social Democrats to the ÖVP, from the Liberals to the Greens, work together extremely constructively in this body, and contact with the Minister and his surroundings is a very good one. In the foreseeable future, it will come here in the House to discuss reports from the Board of Appeal. This will be an opportunity to deal with this problem further and closer and more intensively.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5589	Mrs Lunacek spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, start by playing the claim to be corrected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5614	Mr. Ofner has claimed that I am acknowledgment of the Macedonian people's group in Macedonia, the Albanian – what have I said? – the Albanian People's Group in Macedonia would not recognise the Albanian People's Group in Macedonia. [[Calls: Albanian]] [[Abg. Kiss: Come on!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should write it down before!]] Mr. Ofner! I have actually said that I find the recognition of this Albanian people's group very correct and also politically correct that this should also be extended – some of it already exists. [[Abg. Kiss: No, what did you say? Find out!]] What I spoke against was recognition as a people of the state. And there's a difference in that, you know that very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Because the people of the state can also imply a secession.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5692	Next item is the report by Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5714	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek, that was not an actual correction, but an actual confirmation that you have brought here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Kiss: That's it!]] By the way, I have found your speech today quite interesting, because you mentioned a number of areas in the Austrian Federal Army, where you have just regretted that it is coming to a cut. This is a completely new position of the Greens. I would have liked to hear your argument if we had increased the defense budget in times of budget reorganisation. I would have liked to hear that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have literally said that you think it's great that we don't send troops to Macedonia. A just-pavlov reaction of the Greens, because indeed troops are a priority something bad, totally regardless of whether they are creating peace, building peace or maintaining peace. I would like to underline what you said, Mr Federal Minister, - you have always said the same thing, I would like to confirm it. Federal Minister! They have always said that the use of military forces is not useful in the specific case, because politics is in demand here. And this path is certainly the right one, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The budget approach is basically the same as last year. It seems a bit funny if, in particular, the SPÖ now believes that there is no need to take into account the fact that there are some revenues from sales of real estate, because of course, these are funds available to the national defence budget. As the last speaker on this budget chapter, I would like to refer to a statement by Mr Gaál, because it was striking. Wehrsprecher Gaál, whom we in itself know as very responsible spokespersons of the SPÖ – I do not know how many panel discussions I have already concluded with you, honourable Member, in which you have always said that it is the stated objective of Austrian defence and must remain that it is given a budget of 1 percent of the gross domestic product – has presented the following argument here today: As long as we reform the social state and bring it back to the acceptable level, to the eligible extent, for so long is basically any schilling for the defence of the state wrong. – This is a populism that we reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You only accept the populism of the FPÖ! I'm "gratulating"!]] I do not accept populism at all, which may be different from you, Mr Kogler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It would be interesting to stress once and for all how often you really want to grant the money that we use for the urgently needed new helicopters in this budget debate. – This is populism, Mr Kogler, and not something else that you are meeting here! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The SPÖ regrets itself here, namely that it would not be involved in the debate on the security policy approach, would not be involved in the debate on the Security Doctrine. I would therefore like to ask you very clearly here – I have experienced this in the Defence Committee for a number of years now –: Who has prevented an option report on Austrian security policy? – This was the SPÖ because it was not willing to talk about all the options that Austria has in connection with security policy. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] You see – and this is your problem; Finally, you have to get over this ideological dogma that you have – just an option for Austrian security policy, and that is neutrality. To whom we should be neutral at a time when there is no longer this bipolar relationship, remain guilty to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Consider whether Austria should not have several options to think about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In conclusion, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to stress that you attach importance to investing in man equipment, for example in the area of new combat suits, in the area of newly acquired night vision equipment, because the safety and motivation of the soldiers is particularly important to us. I would like to thank all the members of the Austrian Federal Army for their understanding of the budgetary consolidation, and for the fact that they provide an excellent service with very close resources, that they see that, at a time of budget consolidation, we have to focus on and increase the budget in the fields of research, education and infrastructure, because these are indeed the most important topics of the future. [[Abg. Swimmling: What do you notice this about?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5848	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Mr Special Rapporteur did not wish a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group on XII of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapter 40 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 540 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Advisory Group IX Chapter 63: Economy and work Chapter 64: Construction and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5903	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group IX: Economy and work. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Kubitschek is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5930	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Bartenstein, your party has always understood itself to be a very special economic party. You are the Minister of Economic Affairs in this government, and even if economic policy is not reduced exclusively to a place of business, you have a very special responsibility in the context of economic policy in that country. After more than a year of "re-government" one is in fact more and more often asking the question of the economic policy of this government, and in particular, Mr Minister, the economic policy of your place of business. What has the government actually done in the field of economic policy, except to increase the tax rate, to frustrate investment and economic growth, to distort Telekom and UMTS licenses, and to frighten shareholders? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, Mr Minister, I already know in advance what your answer to this question will be. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Standsuits!]] You want to achieve a zero deficit, and I would also like to confirm at this point that you are striking us with regard to the sporting ambition on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not just sporty!]] But this is far from debunking you the responsibility to put beyond that some initiative that makes sense to economic policy. Today, economic policy, where it is still visible, has a maximum event character. An overall concept is far and wide not recognizable. Such a budget policy, ladies and gentlemen, is harmful to the location and to the future. Unfortunately, the economic forecast published today by the Economic Research Institute gives us the right in this assessment. Ladies and gentlemen! You can read it very carefully today: The Economic Research Institute has reduced the growth forecast for 2001 from 2.6% to 2.2%. In addition to the general economic situation, the economic research institute has, as a reason for this decline, given, above all, the low domestic demand, which is based on – I quote now – "a large increase of direct and indirect taxes". The net income, ladies and gentlemen, fell from 2.25% in 2000 to only 0.5% in 2001. That's a really "great" performance, you have to say! The growth in gross fixed capital formation has also fallen in real terms. Investments continued to grow by 3.2 percent in 1999, and today this figure has fallen to 2.1 percent. In this way, the Economic Research Institute today rejects the statements made yesterday by Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel on the effects of your economic policy in plenary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bartenstein! For example, what have you done to ensure that the economy is not weakened? – If I consider what economic policy initiatives have seen the light of the world from your place of business last year, then in addition to energy liberalisation, which has already been largely prepared for your takeover, I am actually only in the shopping center regulation. Apart from the fact that you have shifted responsibility to the national leaders by this regulation, I really must say that this is not necessarily a priority for economic policy action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we look at the current account in economic policy, then there is a real question as to whether this is all that the EIA is still in the field of economic policy. For example, the topic of technology policy: You, Mr Minister, are not spoiling the public in a truly central area of economic policy with very frequent words, and not with a real offensive at all – and this, although you are very much responsible for this issue. For example, I have seen in the APA the reports you have made on technology policy throughout the last year, and I think it is really very clear from this that you have no particular interest in this issue. However, the government in technology policy has set itself a very, very ambitious goal. In the meantime, however, hardly anyone else in this country believes that it will also achieve this goal. One has the impression, above all, that no one really feels responsible for whether this goal is achieved or not. After all, there is a council for research and technology development – and this is obviously necessary for the much-conjured technology offensive once. Ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you that this can only be enough if you make consistent refusal to reality. In real life, you have to make a little politics that goes beyond lip confessions and Sunday speeches, if you really want to achieve goals that you've set yourself. The government has preferred to transfer technology policy to the Technology Development Council, in which you, Minister of Technology, are not even represented as a responsible minister of the economy. You personally seem to prefer to leave this key and central issue to your FPÖ colleagues in the government for the future of the Austrian economic location, which is of course your decision, but which says a lot about the economic competence of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the long run, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this will not be enough if you want to prevent economic data from falling further down, especially because – and this is my opinion – because there are very many areas of urgent need for action. The EU Commission has once again pointed out that we have a good need for information technology, that we have an obvious shortage of IT professionals. I believe that share options for employees, as Mr Hakl, for example, explained to us two days ago, will not be enough alone to eliminate this blatant lack of IT forces. First of all, we need labour to be able to pass on the share options to them at all. In other words, active labour market policy and massive investment in education and training would certainly be the means that could produce more. But after all, Minister Bartenstein, last week in the "Standard" you announced some initiatives that you would like to present after the Vienna elections – an interesting date for federal topics. For example, the shop opening times, the trade regulations, the cartel law – a topic that is very important to me. I can assure you, Minister: Although at the end of the day we may not agree with you, we are still really happy about every initiative in the field of economic policy that goes beyond purely announcing policy. In this sense, we look forward to your announced initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6008	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6030	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! I am always amazed – even if I hear my previous speaker – not only that the angle of the opposition is sometimes a very strange one, but also, how much and how strong the memory is, whether it be short or long-term memory, suffers from it. Dear Mrs Kubitschek! They have said that Minister Bartenstein is very much responsible, but that no action, no economic policy measures have been taken, all because of the zero deficit that is to be achieved, and certainly to be achieved. To this end: I think you have forgotten what actually happened in the last year, what measures have been taken this year! They have, above all, – and that is crucial! – forget the starting point for this new federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Would that be true of what you are saying, why, in Austria, there should have been more than 1 800 business start-ups in 2000 than in 1999, namely, almost 24,000 new entrants. [[Abg. Schwemlein: Mr Hofmann, how many have locked up?]] As a result of the increase in the promotion of young entrepreneurs, a further increase is expected for 2001, i.e. a positive development in the field of new business start-ups. And I would like to stress that with a positive impact on the labour market. We have full employment as well. [[Abg. Swimming: Really?]] Mrs Kubitschek, what you have forgotten to say: It is the result of the 30-year-old socialist budget and financial policy, which is certainly not easy for the new government. Often mentioned in this House, I only mention the number: 2 200 billion Schilling debt. [[Abg. Sword: Tell what you are doing. Save from the future!]] That's what you have to assume! Here are repairs to be carried out: Interest payments and repayments have led to a high tax and tax rate. Interest payments and repayments are necessary if one makes a debt policy, as it has been the case among socialist finance ministers in the past decades. [[Abg. Eder: Who had the Minister of Economic Affairs for 20 years?]] In the course of the necessary rehabilitation measures – and I would like to say this here at this point too – it is the economy that makes one, like me, special part of the renovation. It is in particular the small and medium-sized enterprises of our country that make a significant contribution to the recovery of these cars. I'll tell you: The economic operators of our country are very understanding because they know what it is all about. They are willing to make a contribution because they are responsible because they know that we do not have a wealth on pump, at the expense of the future, at the expense of subsequent generations. Any additional re-indebtedness makes it necessary to increase taxes and taxes again. So: Only a renovated budget will ultimately secure the future, the future of the population and the future of the Austrian economy! The expectation of the economy is also justified, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister. It is the call, according to a reduction in operating-administrative expenses, caused by a unfortunately God's still overwhelming bureaucracy, which it is still valid for decommissioning. There are already improvements, but there is certainly still a lot to do. Entrepreneurs expect, ladies and gentlemen, that the year will be given twelve months again in tax terms. The socialist grip in the business registers with the introduction of the 13th. Sales tax dates are to be reversed! Entrepreneurs are expected to have a tax reform with two main objectives: the objective of a tax reduction and the objective of a substantial simplification of the administration – even in this legislative period! The economy is expected to reduce the additional wage costs to a full extent, as is laid down in the Government Convention – in this legislative period! Further simplification of plant rights is expected. The economy requires reasonable depreciation periods for short-term economic goods. As an example, I cite hardware and software whose lifetime or lifetime is not at all in line with the depreciation deadlines. Special attention, ladies and gentlemen, is to be paid to the small and medium-sized economy, to small and medium-sized enterprises. The Austrian company structure is characterised by small and medium-sized enterprises, which also secure the essential part of our country's jobs. It is therefore necessary to do everything possible to ensure that small businesses in the local centres, in the municipalities, are preserved. Close-up suppliers are known not only to the food dealers, close-up suppliers are many, many more. It is about revitalizing the growing local centres, so to speak, to create equal opportunities between the company in the centre and the shopping centre at the periphery, figuring under the word "multis on the green meadow". It is a question of creating cost-effectiveness, in particular with regard to infrastructure costs, which ultimately carries the general public as a whole and which distorts competition. In the so far short period of this legislative period, thanks be to God many positive things have happened. I remember after you, ladies and gentlemen from the left On the side of this House, which does not seem to be so commonplace, to the ElWOG 2000, which has led to an improved situation in terms of electricity consumption, electricity prices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] I am pleased that the Bundes-Bewertungs-GmbH Act also maintains that small and medium-sized enterprises are to be protected as well in the procurement process, so that they also have the opportunity to come to an order on site. [[Abg. Eder: This is not in the law, only in the explanations!]] I am pleased – and this is a positive signal to young entrepreneurs – that the registration fee has been cancelled and that the minimum contribution basis has been reduced. Some things have happened, but it is also very, very much to do. There is a wealth of tasks for the Minister of Economic Affairs, Mrs Rossmann's Secretary of State in the tourism sector, for the Federal Government, ultimately for all of us. The Liberal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will support you in the best possible way in these projects in the sense of a forward-looking economic policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6137	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6159	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Prior speaker Hofmann has constantly announced his joy at something here – of course we do not have that much joy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] But it is also the draft budget as a whole, it is not only a problem of your ministry, but a general problem of this budget. In reality, it is the continuation of a trend that we have had to observe for many years. Mr. Kiermaier nods, he hasn't done so much, but now that he's in opposition, he feels that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiermaier.]] It is already a problem to pursue a truly coherent policy with the existing data material. Well, you could say, Well, they don't exist anyway!, but I don't want to presuppose that there is no coherent policy. However, if the debate on the economic chapter and the corresponding budget chapters is now in place, it is already a problem to make certain guidelines on the basis of this numbering work. But this is precisely the result of the fact that the principle of budgetary clarity has long been increasingly eroded. I quite agree with the experts of the Economic Research Institute that this could be done quite differently, that at least this trend would have to be reversed. For example, it is only very difficult to understand what obligations the state has in actual fact with regard to debt that we are currently in the economic chapter. I know that this would in principle be part of the financial chapter, but since you, Mr. Federal Minister, are constantly moving forward the privatisations, the question is: Where is there any evidence as to the federal obligations in its sum? It's "knabbering" quite different – you don't have to wait for the opposition speakers – to this problem, you know, and that's why it would be good if the budget were to be made more transparent again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: privatizations raised. – Although this is a matter that primarily affects the Minister of Finance in the area of responsibility, it is, I believe, at least as well in the economic debate. I think the privatisation strategy, which is now being pursued, has certain parallels – and that is not by chance – to the zero deficit debate. An objective is being set forward or even made a goal, which is actually the question of an instrument. It is not the first question whether anything is done by private or by state, but rather the first question: What are the benefits to society from a particular branch – in this case the industry –? It is only then to ask how this can be best made available, with all pros and contrasts. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, we are constantly experiencing a reversal of the debate. Again and again we hear: The debt must also be reduced, Maastricht-relevant to a maximum of 60 percent of GDP! – may be, this is a political requirement in the euro area, okay – but it is still to be asked what can be reasonably privatized at all. I emphasize: useful! As a member of the opposition, I can afford to stop letting myself out of what we now considered privatisation to be useful and where not. But I can assure you: We are not in principle opposed to any privatisation, as we like to "hang" it – certainly not! For example, I do not see at all why federal sports homes, which essentially serve only more specific groups, have to be privately managed. [[Abg. Oillinger: State!]] There would be an opening. I know enough examples from the Court of Auditors' Committee! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls: Reverse]] Did I promise? – Thank you for the correction. But you knew what it meant, that speaks for your attention. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We'll be careful!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We take good care!]] That's right! As a member of the opposition, I can more quickly turn to the question of measuring you by your own concept, which is a sensible privatisation. A criterion is probably at least that the proceeds that can be achieved through privatisation are not far below what would normally be available in the market, and I already agree that many questions are very difficult to assess, because they are often part of the federal government in sectors where market mechanisms are difficult to deal with. Nevertheless, it is a capital error of any privatisation strategy to announce fully at the beginning – possibly still stating the deadlines – how much money is to be achieved by a certain privatisation action. And then you say, And at the sound so much it has to be done so to say! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Every buyer licks his fingers. Competition among potential buyers is influenced by the fact that they also know how the seller behaves. – This is not only my wisdom, but this standard criticism is always found in the Court of Auditors’ report on the pre-arranged exclusions and then privatizations that have taken place. I have suspected the "grievous" that this federal government is going to hysteria just as it did in the zero deficit, so that this goal, which was actually just made an over goal, may in fact be a secondary economic condition, so to speak, to the point. It is then – and this is not much different from the zero deficit – also to deliver the results. And that's where I have to say: With the current privatizations you really haven't shot down big birds! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Only birds!]] Yeah, well, that's a question of semantics. You should already consider this, Mr Federal Minister, and you must also be assessed according to criteria that actually correspond to your logic. The next point in this field is the question of the relationship between the market and the state itself. I would like to put this forward, but this, of course, also concerns the question of privatisation, but I would like to go beyond that. You have once said on the occasion of the shop opening debate, which I do not want to address now, that deregulation is its value per se. That's what you're saying, I know that's okay with you. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's not all right!]] From the Minister's point of view, deregulation is a value per se. – You, Mr Minister, clearly meant that a certain low level of regulatory density is better than a higher one. You obviously also assume that according to your logic in Austria you find one too high, and therefore deregulation is a value per se for you. But you are withdrawing from an elementary question. Minister! It is precisely a functioning market economy that, in a certain way, a strong state, namely, a strong state, which not only condenses the regulation, namely, in the sense of the volume of the regulations, but also sets out clear rules. In addition, this state must also be willing to show up and must not be susceptible to lobbyism. It may need a more courageous economic policy than it is carried by the Chamber of Commerce to the ÖVP. That is important, I think, when you approach these questions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How much market and how much state should there be? – This question is also related to the question where everywhere the market – and not because it is evil, I don’t say that at all – has to fail out of itself, necessarily because it depends on the individual calculation and certain things are not to be solved individually in the form. I do not say anything new, but it is necessary, in my opinion, to mention that, and this is a need for me, because this aspect is completely erased from the table in the current debate – from euphoria to hysteria – as I sometimes feel. This is actually stated in every textbook of the first semester in microeconomics. Only: These things seem to be forgotten. This impression is given by listening to Princehorn, Grasser and Bartenstein. That's why I'm gonna allow this to happen again. The market fails in many essential areas. I say this so worthlessly. Where, for example, is this the case? – In the case of key social concerns, e.g. in the field of energy management. That's quite clear! Why? – Because we find large lined supplier structures. There are certain phenomena that cause competition to function in a way that does not. And that's where we need a regulation, you know that very well. I don't want to say that there is no such thing in Austria! But where is the deregulation as a value per se? You must admit that there is a need for clear and strong regulatory authorities in this area. But your credo, which you cross everywhere, is much more marked by this value per se, and I am not sure whether you do not shoot out of it yourself in your own goal sometimes beyond this very goal. But there are much clearer areas where this plays a role. I've now chosen one where I knew that maybe we could find another understanding. This is the case, for example, with the question of ecology. Completely clear! – A state needs to have a state where the eco-tax concept and the eco-social tax reform and even the eco-social market economy, as your predecessors constantly preached it, should have another chance. It needs a strong state that is remodelling the tax system! – Do you think the entrepreneurs and households will voluntarily pay this or that? It is only a question of not increasing the overall tax rate. It is about things that you don't want to, that are ecologically unfavorable, that things that have other negative effects are getting more expensive and that things you want to promote are getting cheaper. This principle is very simple! But it is only the state where this can be expressed according to democratic will-building. But that's where you leave the ÖVP completely. They have once decorated themselves with the concept of the eco-social market economy, but we have regretted this because we knew where it is leading, namely that it is being carried to the grave in third-class terms, and that is exactly what has happened with this federal government. In the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, the word "environment" is not a single time. In this direction, many indicators show, but leave out. Keywords: Economic policy. It is the essential task of economic and tax policy – if we are already talking about the future, it must also be mentioned – that these things are corrected. But this federal government has forced backsliding. As far as ecology and economics are concerned, we have been much further in the European context and in the Austrian context. Mr Bartenstein! What this Federal Government currently has to offer here is a single disappointment! [[Bravoruf des Abg. Oils.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I see my speaking time is over. I just want to say more: You have been right with your forecast: I'm disappointed!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6344	As the next speaker, Mr Puttinger is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6365	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Just a comment to my previous speaker to clarify what the position of the ÖVP looks like: Of course we are for a free economy, but the borders and the state are necessary where the individual or where society is damaged. That is a very clear definition. That's our positioning, and we certainly don't get rid of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is in principle clear that there is a real fresh start in budgetary policy: from debt policy to zero debt policy, a budget of full employment and a budget for youth. In the overall conduct of the "Economic and Labour" budget chapter, it can be found that despite individual wage increases, staff costs have remained the same at 140 million ye. In contrast, expenditure on property expenses of 4 235 million y could even be substantially reduced. It is interesting to note that in heading 7525 there was an increase, namely in the funds for the industrial structural improvement action – an essential measure for small and medium-sized enterprises – from 13.3 million y to 20.5 million j. That means: The government parties are doing something for small and medium-sized enterprises! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you talk about economics, ladies and gentlemen, you also have to provide some data. I would say presumptuously, since the reaction of Mrs Kubitschek will be the argument that the Wifo has now changed the data, which is indeed correct, that even the figures revised by the Wifo are among the best in Europe, if not the best in some respects. [[Abg. Edler: Not anymore!]] Look at Japan! Do you know the numbers from Japan? Do you know what growth is expected there now? – One such of 0.2 percent. But if we can still count on 2.1 percent, we effectively have much more than the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, however, the factors that affect Austria's economic location are, of course, of vital relevance – I would like to say that. As strengths – and these are the same as the weaknesses in all countries, always and everywhere, semper et ubique – we in Austria, of course, have to mention the entire economic performance. This is unemployment, which is growth, and that is the rate of inflation. In comparison, we have excellent values in total unemployment. We have seen relatively the best values in youth unemployment. We have an above average per capita income, a significant improvement in government budgets, an international high creditworthiness – keyword: Triple A –, a social peace – keyword: Strike rate. But let me take a closer look at one of the positive factors, namely corporate taxation. This is an extremely important location factor. It is of central importance to the entrepreneur, and Austria is unlikely to be good in the international comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mostly – and you know that as well as we do – the location quality is not assessed according to corporate taxation, but according to the tax rate. The tax rate is the total tax burden due to taxes and social taxes relative to GDP, and we have a lot to pay for, ladies and gentlemen. With 44 percent, the tax rate is significantly higher than the OECD average at 37 percent and the European Union average at 41.5 percent. United States and Japan can significantly undermine these values at 29.7 percent and 28.8 percent. This means, for us, that in the future we will have to deal very well and very vehemently with the tax, very well and very vehemently with social expenditure and, on the other hand, very probably also with labour costs. [[Abg. Conspicuous: Where is the meeting safety report on the tax? Announcing since the previous year! Don't come!]] This has, please, nothing to do with budgetary policy, but has a different context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we have the level of labour costs so high if we are the top-ranking leader in additional labour costs, this has to be a political challenge. And this challenge will also be met by the year 2003. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's not true at all!]] One thing that you, my colleague, repeatedly raise is: We should focus on unit labour costs. [[Abg. That's right.]] That's right! I'll give you the right to do that! With regard to unit labour costs, where labour costs are finally compared with labour productivity, we have achieved a reduction of 0.5 percent per year in recent years. So this is a positive development. However, we do not get beyond the fact that we are third in the world in total costs of 94 percent. So I can't understand that! When we talk about locations, of course we also need to talk about research and development. We launched extensive and far-reaching initiatives in 2001 and 2002. The Federal Government invested more in education 15 billion schilling. That's a tremendous boost! I believe that Austria should and will, as Chancellor Schüssel has said, be made the Wallstreet of Knowledge. However, the evaluations of the Community Innovation Survey data show that the concentration on this rate alone is too little. In fact, it depends on the innovation of the individual companies, and there is Austria excellent. Industry's innovation rate, for example, is 67 percent, far above the EU average. 31 percent of Austria's proceeds from exports come from new and innovative products. Our primary objective of economic policy is to create my ladies and gentlemen – and this is achieved by the 2002 budget – on the one hand, to create the future scope for action through the rapid achievement of a balanced budget and, on the other hand, to reduce the interest burden on public debt in the medium term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! We have succeeded in saving more than one billion shillings of interest by means of the measures we have set up so far, and it must be our goal not only to achieve the zero deficit in the long term, but also, as I think, to strive for surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Most European Union countries have already achieved this. If that lasts, we could do what these countries are already doing. For example, Denmark can reduce debt with a surplus of 2.4 percent. Finland can reduce income taxes with a surplus of 4.1 percent. With a surplus of 0.5 percent, the UK can invest in education, health and transport. Ireland can take precautions to counter demographic developments. The Netherlands can reduce corporate tax by 1 percent plus. Sweden can increase social expenditure by a surplus of 2.4 percent. This is an objective we have in mind! Under these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrians will then say in a year or in a few years: This black and blue government not only has reason, but also makes sense, and thanks to God, it was at the very last possible time to act perfectly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6493	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6514	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Puttinger! That was almost cabaret bar, what you've delivered there. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Jö! What are you paying for that?]] But I think in your position you'll probably have nothing left but to address the matter with gallow humor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A proof of your "good" performance and of the "good" of your work is indeed the introduction of ambulance charges, which do not fall into Chapter 63, but which has received a certain amount of up-to-dateity by the fact that, as I heard, the social spokesperson of the liberals, Mr Gaugg, said, he will not agree. I assume that he will cause the Freedom Party to withdraw from this request, and They will then have to withdraw the application, which would actually be a blessing for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You don't talk about the subject!]] This is also an important issue. You just carried out how good it is for the Austrians under your policy, and I say that exactly the opposite is the case, and this can be proved in fact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I am very grateful for the fact that you have also said here what good values we have achieved in terms of unit labour costs. I also think it's undisputed. The workers of our country have truly done excellent work, have done excellent and good work. But one thing has also come out clearly in your speech: Wage reduction does not mean that workers have more in their pockets, but rather that the economy remains more. You have expressed this in an unmistakable way before. And that's exactly the core of your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Well, that's class fight!]] Yes, but from your side! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with the budget chapter 63, and this concerns labour market policy. You, Mr Federal Minister, have already heard a recent criticism from us in the Committee because you are withdrawing 15.4 billion schilling from the labour market policy so that you can, as it were, contribute to budget recovery. Minister! You always operate with the argument that we have good labour market data in Austria – these are not the problem in the debate – but you have worsened the benefits for the unemployed by shortening the family allowance. You have made it more difficult for you to access by increasing the second maintenance from 26 to 28 weeks. You already know the list of all of the measures you have taken with which you are taking unemployed people. In fact, you find it really fair and socially compatible that unemployed people contribute to budget recovery to such a high degree. I find this unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I would like to ask you if, on your part, the argument is that the replacement time is now being paid – a claim we made a long time ago: Why are they only covered by unemployment insurance funds? What about the civilians? What about the federal army? What about the family compensation fund, what does it look like with the level of coverage? So there would be a variety of points where you could do that. Why start where the unemployed are being punished for unemployment? Another point: Federal Minister! By introducing the child care allowance, you have, of course, eliminated what actually caused the karenz allowance to be done for a period of time and as a substitute for the salary of karenz money, in case women or men are entitled to benefit from it. They now announce that if someone wants to stay at home with his child – and this is what young parents want, they want to care for their child for a certain period of time, and they also want to have an income – that is, if someone does take up the childcare allowance and then, after the period of the so-called family allowance, has no work, then this person will not have a right to unemployment benefit, even if the expectation has been fulfilled before. I don't understand at all how this is possible: They take out an insurance from unemployment insurance, and at the same time you want to punish the people who consume a family benefit that everyone can benefit by not providing them with unemployment benefits after that. Minister! You're gonna have to explain that to me! I don't think it's uniform. You're going to get a lot of problems, and I'm warning you to do this right now. But I have already noticed that even in other areas and chapters, our warnings remain unheard of with you – to the suffering of the People's Prosecution, to the suffering of the Constitutional Court, to the suffering of the people in our country who are only more uncertain by your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! In the written brief answers you have also taken very interesting positions where it is about introducing the part-time and the notice protection. For example, please write to Mr Gartlehner that the protection of termination will be available until 24. However, the question of whether the possibility of longer part-time employment is provided for in terms of dismissal and dismissal protection remains to be discussed in detail. Mr Mag. Kogler writes that you want to improve the situation of young mothers and fathers in relation to the current situation and that the work-law possibility of part-time leave should continue to exist. Dr. Van der Bellen, you will write: The introduction of the childcare allowance will not create any disadvantages. There will be no intervention in existing agreements and claims. So somehow, it doesn't fit in completely: Is it coming, or isn't it coming? What does that look like? You have taken three different positions on one question, and I think this is very remarkable for a Federal Minister of Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! This Federal Government is also so pleased to talk about integration again and again, that integration should take place before accession. This is a policy that we fully share. Only: You're doing something else de facto. They are increasing the labour force's quota, which is used as seasonal workers. You're doing very interesting things here: Meat practitioners from Hungary can be used, although you yourself know what problems we have in the meat industry – not least because of a policy that was not quite as good by this government. It is therefore possible to use meat practitioners or work practitioners from Hungary. One only has to look for one who is from Austria, and if you don't find it, you can use Hungarian trainees. I think this is very "serious" and it shows what "advantage" Austrian workers have in their policy when it comes to being as favourable as possible to entrepreneurs. Your position is quite clear, because in this respect you are the Minister for Economic Affairs and not the Minister for Labour. But you always say 'great', and active labour market policy will not be too short. Federal Minister! Why to Get They then sent a letter from the socio-economic organizations stating that, on the basis of the new funding directives, they no longer know whether there will be conditional support commitments at all. As a result, they have to resolve their reserves and thus face major liquidity and credit problems. Minister! Can you explain that to me? This is a reversing of active labour market policies, and I think it contradicts exactly what you are so happy to announce to us here. You have also announced, Mr Federal Minister, that you want to release shop opening times to the fullest. That is, people should be allowed to work around the clock under the week, with the exception of Sunday. Obviously you intend not only to do this at the shop opening times, because, according to an answer from you to a written request, you plan to introduce a model according to which employees in the service companies comparable to sales facilities, such as hairdressers, should also work in this way. Minister! Is that true, or is that not? Do you really want to make employees more flexible in the sense of the economy? In her eyes it is probably extremely important for the Austrian population that it can shop at midnight or go to the barber. Last point: Mr Federal Minister, you have announced an increase in efficiency in the fight against black entrepreneurship, and in this context you have spoken about the preparation of a draft law. Is there already this draft law? [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Voluntary speaking time limit, Mr Schwamlein. To what extent is this fight against black entrepreneurship planned by you to meet those requests that are blocked in this House of ÖVP and FPÖ during the deliberations? In fact, there is a subcommittee which has not even been set up, because the government parties are preventing it. Perhaps you can answer this question, Mr Minister. I assume that both of you are aware of your requests. Last point: Yesterday we heard about the public that the social partners agreed on improvements in the protection of workers. Mr Federal Minister, you have announced dramatic deterioration in this area. Now that the outcome of the negotiations is officially known, will you shape worker protection according to the proposals of the social partners, or will you stick to your versions?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6636	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6657	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Silhavy has asked me a lot of questions, I will try to answer at least some of these questions, but please allow me a few general comments on the budget chapter "Economics and work". It is our branch of the location ministry, and we, Mrs. State Secretary Rossmann and I, are trying to shape our economic policy in such a way that we, together with the House, try to optimize and improve Austria's location. I believe that we have made good progress in the last year as a whole. Mrs Kubitschek has quoted the Wifo here, which is forecast to weaken the economy. However, it is not right that the Economic Research Institute, in its turn, should lead to this weakening of the economy in particular on domestic consolidation measures. In this connection, I should like to quote from the APA report of today, in which it says: "The weakening of the world economy from the USA also slows Austria's economic growth." Further down, it says: "The revision of the downward growth forecast is mainly export-side." - Quote. It is true that there is also a weakening of domestic demand, but it is a question of worth and of rarity, and I think you know it as well as I do, that it is above all the uncertainty factors that come to us from the USA, the European Union, the former from Germany, which are somewhat uncertain to the economic researchers. The economic researchers are, of course, uncertain, because, on the other hand, the IHS, for example, expects a slight upturn in 2002 compared to the previous forecasts and revised its December forecast to 2.5 percent. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, the energy price and oil price developments of the last autumn and the open questions relating to American economic development have insecured the economic researchers and ultimately put them before questions in terms of economic development. But I believe that Austria has a global location policy that allows and provides the best possible security of economic activity. Mrs Kubitschek! In one, I'm diametrically different: It is the zero deficit of 2002 which is a very important factor in strengthening the location, and it is nothing worse for the economic location of Austria than the excessive budget deficits that we unfortunately had in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: Diametrically different opinion than the same opinion!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, it is true that, for example, in the last EU summit in Stockholm, in an EU-wide benchmarking study, parameters that are location-relevant have been critically noted with regard to Austria. This has been like a red thread through the messages: The question of shop opening times, the question of lack of competition law, was repeatedly raised by the question of a lack of independent competition authority. Mrs Kubitschek! Because I know your interests aren't so far away from me from the principle: Yes, we will implement a committed reform of competition law. It has already decided on the principles for this, and one of the essential elements is the creation of an independent competition authority, which will have at least an intrusion and investigation function and the possibility of an application to the antitrust court. I myself could have imagined the further step of a competition authority, which is also responsible for decision-making. In any event, the compromise is the one - I think it can be seen in Europe, and it will be put into an overall package - to ensure better competition law in Austria, faster competition law than we currently have. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of shop opening, I think it is time to remove Austria from Europe's final lighting position. There is no second country in Europe that is so restrictively dealing with the subject of shop opening. And, Mrs Silhavy, why should travel agencies, banks, hairdressers, so-called service companies, which are very similar to commercial companies and are also doing their business in very similar places, not be able to keep their business open on Saturday afternoons similar to trading companies per se? I think that is reasonable and good, and that will be an essential element of my reform proposals. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Mertel and Schwemlein.]] Mr Schwamlein, I know from the list of speakers that you have already spoken. Then I'd like to listen to you, but now I'd ask you to stay on the floor. What Mrs Silhavy also says is that workers should work around the clock. – There’s no talk about that! No speech! Of course, the Working Time Act and all other rights of protection provided by labour law apply. A company will not even be able to keep open around the clock, according to my proposals, because at a weekly opening time of 72 hours, the round-the-clock opening would have ended on Wednesday at 24 o'clock, and no one will want it. Member of the European Parliament So you don't intend to be here, which is not given for my part! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One thing, however, surprises me a little, and that Mrs Kubitschek meant that nothing had happened except the shopping centre regulation. – They and many of their colleagues have made a valuable contribution to a very essential economic law, namely full-liberation of the electricity and gas market. I thank you again. Mr Kogler said that the market had failed in the energy sector. – I can only say: In any case, Mr Kogler, it is wrong to say, from my point of view. Here the State has failed, and I do not mean the Federation so much, but there are other parts of the State too. With its energy policy, the Federal Government has also acted reasonably in recent months and has given the market economy the appropriate priority. I believe that the phase has now come when it comes to structuring our energy industry in such a way that it is competitive on the one hand in Europe and, on the other hand, in Austria, provides the corresponding services cost-effectively. This is still possible. What I want to avoid is that we continue to believe that we can maintain the status quo – we can't – and then in one, two, three years, now only the acquisition by any European electricity giant remains. Now we are still self-determined! Now we can properly position the asset of hydropower, which is becoming increasingly valuable, in Europe, now we can go to the creation of a common network society, now we can structure what is a natural monopoly – like the network – accordingly and thus take the right steps for Austria's energy economy, but also for the economy as a whole. But again: The market has not failed here, but it has been waited too long to give the market the necessary priority through appropriate liberalisation steps. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister of Labour, I could now deal with full employment. I'm proud that we have her. This is not, however, the merit of the Federal Government, which is the merit of the economy and also of the economy. However, I am saying that, apart from de facto full employment, we have more and more data that confirms the excellent efficiency of active labour market policies. If I look at what has continued in the problem groups – older workers, women, young people, long-term unemployed – then I can only say that there are the successes of our labour market policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These achievements of labour market policy will be achieved with an AMS that is structured in social partnership and that also reflects the corresponding realities in Austria. I would like to stress that this is the case, and this will remain the case, even in the course of the full implementation of the AMS as a GesmbH; I am very much saying this here in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As I see here in particular Mr Mitterlehner, and in particular Mr Vergebnitsch: Thank you very much from me to the social partners, who yesterday, after my information, came to a really groundbreaking agreement on worker protection reform, as I believe. – This is to be presented by me; I have always received the press releases. Congratulations, Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the social partners! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is more than just a sign of life, which could also be a change in future cooperation between government and social partners. I have already analysed the solution you have presented and clearly achieved a little. Mrs Silhavy! Talk a little bit to your neighbor, Mr. Vergestnich! In terms of minimum time spent – it's a little different now, but that doesn't matter – plus/minus has come out what has been proposed by me as a whole. And I'm glad about this differentiation. I have said earlier that it has failed a lot to say that an office workplace has to be assessed and tested differently than an industrial workplace, and if it is a particularly dangerous job or a night work place, then perhaps you have to give it a little bit more. In the first round, the social partners were not yet ready to make this differentiation. In their own negotiations they have now done it. Excellent! This will be a basis on which a draft assessment will be drawn up. Moreover, I would point out that almost all of the 50 reform points in consensus could be dealt with at the social partners' level in the first run-up. And on the two, three politically sensitive points, such as the question of the extent to which the labour inspector will have to register in the future, there is now a social partners' formula, which I believe is reasonable in principle. Mrs Silhavy! As I said, Please get more information from your seat neighbor, Mr. Vergestnich. I should like to thank the social partners once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. I'll take you by the word!]] Mr President of the Council! You can always take me by the word, and I am also at my word, as you, by the way, keep it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, Mrs Silhavy also meant that we would withdraw 15.4 billion schilling from the labour market administration, from the labour market. That's not right! Apart from the fact that your seat next to your left, which is not here now – the former Minister of Finance Edlinger – and also all the other finance ministers before him, has developed a significant routine in the use of these areas – this practice is now being continued by us until 2002 – I can confirm that the funds for active labour market policy will continue to flow to the fullest level and that, of course, also passive labour market policy remains fully viable. I agree with you that these 15.4 billion schillings will be exhausted for the 2002 budget, but not in the sense of withdrawal, because they do not reduce benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me get to the end of this. I mean, we stand a year ago, which continues to bring us positive aspects and prospects for the future in terms of employment. We will reduce unemployment a little further despite the revised economic forecasts. We know that we have, in fact, long had the problem of drying labour markets. [[Abg. Oillinger: What is a "dried out labour market"?]] I do not understand, by the way, why the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and the AK address the issue of eastern enlargement of the European Union in a much more restrictive way than the German Trade Union Confederation, which carries the line of Chancellor Schröder, the seven-year transitional period. Mr President of the Council! In Austria we have a little over 3 percent unemployment and de facto full employment. In Germany, there is about 8 percent unemployment, in the new Länder, because they are closer to the border, twice as much, and there you can take the position of Chancellor Schröder. They do not share the position of our government. That doesn't seem to me to be quite balanced. But maybe there's still a willingness to talk. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As I have said, there are uncertainties about economic development – this is out of question – but I can assure you that Finance Minister Grasser and the Federal Government have taken account of these uncertainties in the budget, so that, on the basis of the current foreseeable economic development of this zero deficit in 2002, and thus this great milestone for Austria's economy can continue to be achieved. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6783	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6804	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A brief comment on the subject of shop opening. Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to find a solution and also work to bring together the interests of the 250 000 employees in retail trade with the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and the interests of the trade union, churches and other socially relevant groups and to achieve an acceptable result, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Oils: But?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] That is, at least, the intention of our group, and I know what I am talking about, because I myself, Mr Schwemmlein, am still behind the bag despite my already grudging hair, as you say at national level. Therefore, I also believe to understand the interests of those who are allowed to share this "chicksal" with me – under quotation marks. [[Abg. You're on our side anyway!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, if you sing the song to the small and medium-sized enterprises on these farms, and this is also supported by figures and facts, as Mr Hofmann has already done, then you must of course also point out that these medium-sized people were and are ready with their employees, and with this and there are not insignificant burdens to clean up the socialist waste policy of the past, and are willing to ensure a balanced state budget with this contribution. Ladies and gentlemen! If this was not a waste policy, then we might be burdening ourselves today. Ladies and gentlemen! I really regret what attitude is often being taken towards the middle class, and I say that it is really a community that you are doing over and over again by appealing to this middle class and making up billions of tax gifts for this professional group. This is unfair and should not be taken that way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Silhavy, Mr Perfuss and Mr Mag. Prammer.]] Just from your side, Mrs. Silhavy, you're always making a mistake that there's a 15-billion tax gift package from the Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Yes, eh!]] . However, if you believe that we are trying to secure jobs by 15 billion schilling, then you are right, ladies and gentlemen, because this discharge is more necessary than ever, in the sense of the employees, businesses and the economic location of Austria, because, to respond to your call, Mr. Colleague, we want to work properly and, as has been said, we have to deal with Mr. Edlinger's debt. [[Abg. Eder: This is not happening!]] It's written to you once again in the main book! But I can deal with another important problem very soon. We also agree on this in the coalition, as I mean. The statistical problem is about the burden on statistics, without questioning the need for statistics as a whole. But there must be a profound statistical reform, Mr Federal Minister, Mrs State Secretary. I can support this briefly with some comments. There must be a complete reorientation of this statistical work. The information needs of the economy must be at least designed in the same way as those of the European and Austrian administrations. This is not the case at present. Furthermore, it is necessary to minimise red tape, to use all the administrative data already available, to exploit the possibilities of information technology, to increase voluntaryness, to reduce pressure, to coordinate statistical activities, et cetera, et cetera. This includes, of course, the special problem INTRASTAT. In the beginning – and I also ask for the EU to do so – it should only be possible for INTRASTAT, because the current situation is a great burden for the importing small and medium-sized companies in our country. I should like to deal with another problem in the near future, namely that of subsidies fraud in the European Union. This is also an extremely important economic policy problem, which, of course, also harms Austrian businesses, whether it be in agriculture, whether it be in the food industry or through the contributions of the Austrian taxpayer to the EU's pot. I am pleased that Mr Gradwelt and Mr Maier, on the basis of a comment on the Flax Subsidy scandal in Spain, have asked the Minister for Agriculture to inform me about these causas. Since I no longer have a lot of speaking time, I can only inform you of some of these subsidies frauds. Quote from the report of the competent committee of the Union: A criminal network has been discovered that has operated cross-border fraud with armored butter for many years. In the meantime, 100 000 tonnes of butter with vegetable and bovine fats and chemical substances have been used, and the financial damage is likely to exceed the 45 million ye initially assumed. - Quote. A real scandal, ladies and gentlemen! And the further scandal is that the Irish authorities have reduced the fine for the company that has hired it. – That’s really not how it can be done! I would therefore also recommend to you from the Social Democracy that the great socialist EU Capazunders named Schröder and Jacques Delors be involved in ensuring that they do not use their power to impose sanctions on Austria, but that these frauds are removed or at least limited. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These gentlemen should use their power, instead of talking about sanctions against Austria at the Champagne Meetings, ladies and gentlemen. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They are also indirectly responsible for this, for you have unfortunately not yet accepted this subject of God crediblely. I therefore believe that the Federal Government should also be called upon to address these issues in its competence in the Union through fishermen and other Commissioners, for it is an extremely economic policy issue that costs money and also includes consumer protection as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6924	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6946	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I have noted with interest that the liberal employee representative Gaugg was exchanged or replaced in the list of speakers by the liberal economic chamberer Haigermoser. – This is symbolic as it is probably appropriate for this party too! [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] However, this can also be related to the fact that Mr Gaugg is now more essential than Mr Haigermoser, who has obviously been used here to entertain Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that this is a coincidence, and not insofar as Mr Gaugg protested an hour ago about the APA against the ambulance fee, which was reasonable against the ambulance fee, so that he obviously already before the party court or what I know where he was quoted. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eder and Dr. Stummvoll.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not want to deal with the ambulance fee and the somewhat confused attitude of the liberals to do so, but I would like to begin by commenting on your comments, Mr Federal Minister. I think it is already sensational, Federal Minister, how you manage to take up the EU unemployment rate and thus demonstrate full employment. You know: The EU unemployment rate is subject to different criteria in its survey method, is far less expensive, based on microcensus surveys and has nothing to do with actual unemployment, because the EU unemployment rate already measures the least jobs – even minor jobs – as a job, as if the person concerned were fully employed. In other words, a unemployed person who is registered as unemployed in the Austrian unemployment rate and who is rightly receiving unemployment benefit is registered as an employed person after the EU surveys. Imagine that! And then the Minister says we have – wonderful! – a dried-up labour market. The picture must be presented: the dried-out labour market. We still have 5 or 6 percent registered unemployment rates, and the Minister says we have a dried-up labour market, which I always ask myself: What's dried up? Does he mean people? Then it's a cynical picture. What does he mean by that? The supply of labour? This too is not dried out, Mr. Federal Minister! I'm just telling you one thing: Just as it is possible to define 3 percent of the unemployment rate – whether it is the EU unemployment rate or the Austrian registered unemployment rate – as a full employment for political reasons, for example, in the 1950s, for example, a half-percentage of unemployment has been defined by British economists as full employment, and everything on it was no longer full employment. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: 3 percent!]] Half a percent! - Yeah, you're pulling your shoulders. They have now invented the 3 percent, not the 3 percent unemployment rate, but the Minister has defined the 3 EU percentage, which is actually totally irrelevant, as full employment. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: No! ...!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Ah so?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Why are they irrelevant?]] Don't say "Ah so," Minister! You yourself know how the EU unemployment rate is defined, and you yourself, at least I have heard of you, are right to say, that it is substantially unfair than the Austrian method of registering unemployment. According to the Austrian method of defining unemployment, we are still far from full employment, whether you start full employment at half a percent or at 3 percent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is one thing, but that is still not the real thing, but it is only as a foreword, Mr Federal Minister, on the subject of deregulation per se. Mr Kogler has already given you a speech on this. I'd like to add that. Deregulation per se using the example of Telekom privatisation, deregulation in general. – Apart from the fact that – and this is not only your responsibility, even though you were in the Federal Government at that time – Deutsche Telekom has been economically starving for years and the revenues of Deutsche Telekom have been delivered to the state and not invested in the company, apart from the fact that Deutsche Telekom's form of company has undergone the various changes for five or six years, from GesmbH to AG, apart from that, the stock exchange and everything that was run around it were also to the address of the President, a huge economic policy flop of this Federal Government – of a rare quality! You have to imagine this: First of all, the representatives of the Federal Government, including Mr Grasser, said: 25 billion brings the quarter. How many have it become, ladies and gentlemen? Almost 11 billion schilling, and they're not even safe. After deduction of all taxes and fees, not even 11 billion schilling! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: 4 were budgeted!]] And here the Federal Government presents itself, Mr. Federal Minister, to the Auditorium and say: We are celebrating our economic success. Was that a success? Was that a success, Mr Mitterlehner? Do you think the Telekom privatisation is a success? Read the "Small Newspaper" of today: A new win warning is before: Loss of 6 to 7 billion schilling for Deutsche Telekom. That is to say, you send a company that is almost bankrupt to the stock market, and you know it too. One also knows that in recent years this company has been starved that nothing has been invested, and yet one sends it to the stock exchange. The Austrians are still being made happy before, their mouths are watered by the fact that they can now become popular shareholders. The Austrians are sold the illusion that they are allowed to buy their own company, which, since it was previously state-owned, they are allowed to make a contribution to the purchase of the company through the acquisition of shares; Shares that start to decline immediately and do not even reach the low output rate. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Who was the minister then?]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Who has delayed the emission for so long? Who?]] Yes, it wasn't us, Mr. stupid! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question is whether one wants this Telekom company to be an economically powerful company, and you obviously did not want that, because you were a member of the former Federal Government. You can't always talk and say you didn't know anything. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And last but not least, you should have known at the stock exchange that you can't go to the stock exchange with a company that's starved, just ahead of the end. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: unanimity in the Council of Ministers!]] For the location Stock Exchange Vienna is anything but gratifying. And here I am on the question of deregulation, because privatisation alone is not yet deregulation. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitterlehner: Does the stock exchange supervision work? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Not very good!]] Does it work? Can it happen in a country that a company like Telekom may go to the stock exchange under these conditions, as Deutsche Telekom went to the stock exchange, if the stock exchange supervision works? We are coming, Mr Mitterlehner, to speak in the next few days about what happened in the context of this stock exchange, what has happened afterwards, what has happened now. – Where is the state supervision? And if it is not a state supervision in the form of a state-organised stock exchange supervision: Where are the bodies that check all that should have been checked at the stock exchange? Where are they? Is she working? - No! That's what I'm on the subject of deregulation. I would also like to address the trade unionists in terms of worker protection. I think the changes in the field of workers' protection are missing because they are carried out without specific targets, because I believe that we need to end the rigid tool in the field of workers' protection. And the rigid instrumentarium does not improve with regard to the specifications for the time of use by reducing the time of use. It should be based on success. One should introduce criteria for the success of worker protection, which could be measured, for example, by the number of accidents at work as a target, which could be measured by the number of occupational diseases as a target which could be measured by the number of invalidity pensions as a target for worker protection. This has not happened, but has been negotiated between the economy and the union: We're going to cut down a little. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That's not true!]] – You can then explain it, Mr Mitterlehner. But it is not only reduced in terms of workers' protection. I know that would be more differentiated. There are also points that I can see quite positively, such as the use of psychologists. But the real thing is, Mr Mitterlehner: At the same time, in addition to the withdrawal of workers' protection, which is still for me, because the objectives are missing, the supervision of workers' protection is reduced. According to "Standard", a reduction of 50 labour inspectors is planned. But what we need and what we have been demanding for years is an extension of the labour inspection. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need a powerful control authority in the field of worker protection and not one that is reduced, even if only through "natural exits" – under quotation marks – it is to be done. Look at the streets! The colleague, Mr Lichtenberger, could provide you with reports on the events alone in the field of transport, only in the field of truck transport, which are carried out by deregulation at EU level and by national protection regulations. There are only more rolling bombs on the road, because there are only more overtired drivers on the road, drivers who are 12, 14, 16 hours on the road! Where are the mass controls in Austria? Where are the mass punishments in this area? That would be necessary. If you already deregulate on the one hand – and deregulation in the transport sector is not only a national matter, but an international one – then it also needs strong controls. You can look at the protocols: Austria is quite far behind in the field of penalties, whether this concerns the protection of workers on the streets or also the protection of workers itself. And it is obvious that we want to further detract from this by converting labour inspection as a control authority into an advisory institution, although, Mr Mitterlehner, we already have an advisory institution, a large one, which could also be the accident insurance. Now we have two advisory institutions in parallel next to each other. A reasonable model should be considered, but not what is being done, namely not only the protection of workers, but also controls on the protection of workers. That is the wrong way, and this way will certainly not lead forward, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last point: Conflicts of interest in your ministry – what we have always said since the introduction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour or the merger of the two sectors of economy and work into a ministry. We have always feared – "quod erat demonstrandum" in the example of worker protection – that the interests of worker protection, labour law are too short. This can be demonstrated by the example of worker protection, for example in shop opening times – and there are still some other examples. But the question that has been raised in the "standard" is exciting: what that means in the broadest sense is constitutional. Mr Bartenstein! Who are you? What are you acting like? As Minister of Economic Affairs – or as Minister of Labour? Who of you wins in this conflict between economy and work – and there are conflicts –: Me or me? Who's the "me" of both of you, that wins? I say it is always the Minister of Economic Affairs who wins in this conflict: For example, workers' protection, such as shop opening times, and there are many others. But the tension of this contribution in the "standard" from the point of view of constitutional judges is also that you have to represent two different interests in the example of the operating permit in one person. Now I already know that there has already been so much deregulated in the company's plant law that the entrepreneurs can in principle organize this almost themselves. But if a plant has been approved by the one hand by your economic side, and the labour inspection has objected because they do not believe that provisions of worker protection have been complied with – what happens then? Do you, Mr Bartenstein, make a constitutional complaint about your ministry against yourself? Is that what you're doing? Skill You do? This is neither politically responsible nor justifiable. And I'm sure you can't justify that. You can explain this to someone: Mr Bartenstein as Minister of Labour against Mr Bartenstein as Minister of Economic Affairs of the Constitutional Complaint! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How is that supposed to work, Minister of State? You will certainly not do that, but one will happen: Pressure is being exerted that this opposition of the relevant departments does not come about, because Mr Bartenstein obviously does not like to make a constitutional complaint against himself. So what was described here in this article in the "Standard" is reality, that can happen at any time. This has been recognized by prominent constitutional judges. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This will never happen!]] In the past, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs, as the Ministry of Labour Inspectorate responsible for labour inspection, has already objected to a notice from the Ministry of Economic Affairs on operating plant authorisation, which then went to the Constitutional Court. This cannot happen now, because the Minister of Economic Affairs cannot go against himself to the Constitutional Court. Mr. Bartenstein, Minister of Labour, accuses the Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein that he has violated provisions that violate constitutional law – Mr Puttinger, do you really believe that? Faith You really think that's gonna happen? I'm convinced it won't happen. I think this is a fundamental and fundamental error that happened when these super-ministerias were created. And we have told you that there will be conflicts of interest which cannot be resolved in such a way that they cannot be associated. But at the time, the Minister of State acted and said: There are no problems between economics and work, and therefore there are no conflicts either! – I think this is fatal, and this, ladies and gentlemen, will have to be seen even further.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7226	As the next speaker, Deputy Dr. Stumpfully spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7247	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just one word on the final remarks made by my predecessor. Mr Oellinger, if one has listened to you, one can only be glad that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour is under a Minister Bartenstein and not under a Minister of Oillinger. You would probably have a personality division if you were to lead the ministry, because you can only see economy and work with a class-warring basic attitude as you just described it. But if we say that economics and work belong together under one roof, then we consider this to be the progress of this government policy! Not class struggle, but partnership, partnership between business and work, Mr. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: This statement really fits you! I wouldn't have trusted you anything else!]] If we are discussing today this chapter on economic and labour, on the day that the economic researchers have revised the forecast downwards, we can nevertheless say self-confidently with regard to the general economic development of the world: An economic growth, also a revised, 2.2 per cent real, a consumer price index of only 1.7 per cent, an unemployment rate of 3.6 per cent are still significant figures in spite of revision down to which we envy many countries, ladies and gentlemen! That's what you're supposed to hold on to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I would like to admit that there is a number in the prognosis, where we must pay very close attention: A current account deficit of 85 billion schilling is a weakness. First of all, it signals the strong dependence of our country on raw materials, and second, it signals that we undoubtedly still have structural weaknesses in our economy. We have to be so honest. Here we must pay great attention, here there are still challenges for government policy in the future. We don't want to see everything through the pink glasses. We must say quite objectively what our strengths are and what the challenges will be for the next few years, ladies and gentlemen. This is how we see politics: objective, honest and fair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer.]] The second – and we have already stressed this yesterday, Mr Bauer – is: If we see our position with regard to the results of Stockholm, we can also say confidently here: We are on the right path in terms of budget consolidation in full employment at the same time, ladies and gentlemen. One thing you also have to say – I stressed it yesterday –: Our problem in the labour market is today – colleagues head and middle-leighers will address it – that every second company complains of not getting any workers, no IT technicians, no professionals, no assistants. That is our problem, ladies and gentlemen, and not the question you are articulate! This is the challenge for the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a representative, I sometimes feel like an outsider of the labour market service. I am constantly receiving letters from entrepreneurs who complain about not getting a job. This is the challenge for the next few months, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Third point: If we look at the location factors for Austria's economic location without opposition glasses, but rather calmly, soberly and objectively, we can only say that stability, productivity, liberalisation and the trust we enjoy internationally are positive. The Federal Chancellor pointed out yesterday: In the "Institutional Investors", a semi-annual ranking of the industrialized states, Austria is from 16th to 9th in the last half of the year. Place has advanced in terms of credit quality, the country's creditworthiness. – Ladies and gentlemen, a beautiful success this half year under this federal government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Although President Vergestnich, whom I have often criticized in recent months under the motto "The union is increasingly feeling as the spearhead of the opposition against government and parliament," now there is no longer, I really have to say today: What was presented yesterday as a social partners' consensus in the area of worker protection is a major step forward. I happen to have heard in the 'ZiB 1', as Mr President has said – and I really think this is a great progress in thinking: We measure the success of worker protection not by the number of criminal mandates distributed by labour inspection, but by the question of whether the number of accidents at work is declining. – This is exactly the position of the economy. We've always said: We say to health and safety, yes to workers' protection, but no to bureaucracy, no to the paper war and no to the shock. A major progress, which was presented yesterday – bravo to the social partners, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I must use the short speaking time that remains for me to point out, of course, that we have not solved all the problems. We have three major weaknesses: First vulnerability is bureaucracy; we know that. Although we have made progress here through the operating permit, commercial regulation in 1997, we have still not implemented the one-stop-shop principle. Second weak point: Additional labour costs. Internationally, unit labour costs are certainly in the foreground, but in the competitive situation regarding the shadow economy, the additional wage costs are of great importance, ladies and gentlemen. Third vulnerability, where we still have challenges, is undoubtedly the field of innovation and technology. Two examples: The high technology industry is still under-represented in our country. And we still import three to four times as much technical know-how in the form of patents and licenses as we export. So in the field of innovation, technology, we undoubtedly still face challenges, we have tasks to deal with for the future. But in total, ladies and gentlemen: Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs, thank you to the Secretary of State! We are on our way well, we are on the right track, and we will face this challenge, namely budget consolidation and reforms, and the whole process of full employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7352	The next speaker was Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7373	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a lot of talk about this Wifo prognosis today. You can't beautify it or else; it's just like it is. It is clear that growth has fallen from 2.6 to 2.2 percent in 2001. The whole is home-made by an extensive increase in taxes and other burdens on the population. That means in the clear text: Mass incomes have thus decreased significantly, falling from 2.25% in 2000 to 0.5% in 2001. And that also means, of course, that the purchasing power goes back. And if purchasing power goes back, then first of all the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs suffer, the agriculture and then all the others. That is quite simply economic blasphemies. In addition, today the Federal Minister has mentioned that the crisis, based on the USA, may also be starting over Europe. I can only say that, hopefully, the crisis will not be added, because then it will be much more difficult, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is nothing to do with it, Mr President, if you make yourself up here and try to pray a number of things in good health. The world, as it is, is our country, as it is, and this federal government is also, as it is, unprofessional. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The opposition is also as it is!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Neither healthy nor sick!]] After one and a half years of this federal government, I can say a clear word: These are a year and a half lost for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] During the Vienna election campaign, this German government believed that it had to be particularly smart, and did nothing and waited once. A number of points have not been discussed at all, and have not been discussed at all. I will list some of these points to you. But now we are again beginning to consider more extensive pressures on the population and a reduction in the quality of life or to harm the economy of Austria in the long term, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The shop opening times have already been addressed today. Yes, please, who demands to extend the shop opening times to 72 hours? [[The speaker keeps an issue of the "Economic Sheet" up to date.]] Da: Mr. Veit Sounde! You may know it, perhaps it will give you a donation to give you one or more times, so that the shop opening times are liberalized. I've never heard of the members of the Chamber of Commerce, the little Greislers, all of those on sale that they want to change the shop opening times. [[Abg. Neudeck: You must not close from the "consumer" to the "Billa"! The sound is not the Gerharter!]] I heard it today from your Mr Haigermoser, who was here, also: He also does not intend to agree to change the loading times. [[Abg. Neudeck: You want to lock the shops like the "consumer"!]] But here is what Mr Oellinger said very clearly: There is once the Minister for Labour Bartenstein, and this Minister of Labour Bartenstein obviously wants to extend shop opening times. And then there is the other one, the Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein, which does not propose social conditions in terms of extending shop opening times for employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Interestingly, the Freedom Party has been refusing the expansion of shop opening times for years and even today, although already a little more complicated, but still, clearly rejected. Small and medium-sized enterprises also clearly reject them. In any case, the Socialists reject all the regulations that are being implemented only on the backs of the workers and small businesses already burdened. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's all over!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: All, also the reasonable!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] We are in favour of liberalisation, Mr Ofner. We are in favour of liberalisation, but we are waiting for proposals from the Minister, who are also socially compatible, and who also allow women who work mostly in these farms to continue to live a decent family life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: the Mineral Raw Materials Act. You hear and marvel: There is hardly a new government, the Mineral Raw Materials Act is already under attack! With the current draft, which is under review and inspires around, Mr. Ex-Umweltminister Bartenstein will continue to accelerate and facilitate the reduction of mass raw materials, which he has already been doing. In particular, the gravel barons should be again facilitated and given the possibility of being able to switch to anyone without consideration. [[Abg. Head: Others too!]] But that, my Ladies and gentlemen, everything will again be at the expense of the communities, the citizens and the neighbours and above all at the expense of the environment. The regulations on the protection of the environment, which are still under the SPÖ coalition, are now being taken back, two years later, on the call of the gravel barons, laws that have been carried by you, Mr Bartenstein – I do not know if he is here now, but one will execute them – as Minister for the Environment. In turn, the communities reject this, and the citizens reject it. And this procedure is also rejected by the Social Democratic Party. Acquired rights of citizens and the protection of the environment must be safeguarded. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Economic interests must not be exclusively at the expense of the communities and their quality of life. Administrative reform – open. Minister! Either the reform will be done in agreement with the countries, or you would rather leave your hands on it! Here you will receive greetings from Mr Leitel from the Federal Chamber of Commerce, who says very well: [[showing a page from the "Kronen Zeitung"]] Administrative reform from now on. – What is happening in the government? It is disputed. Nothing happens, nothing goes further in the administrative reform! Or, another point, when we talk about economic development, the economy: What about the thousands of people who have to go to work every day, depending on their cars, and who can hardly afford their cars because of their loads, who at last need a kilometre increase, a corresponding penalty? You don't take these people into account at all, ladies and gentlemen. I wouldn't laugh so much at your place, think of your Vienna election result! There's nothing to laugh at! [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Ofner and Neudeck.]] Think of your Vienna election result! You lost so much that you have to be very quiet here at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or: Employment shortages in the IT sector, in the specialist sector, in the tourism sector. – Mrs State Secretary, I am even surprised to see you again. I haven't seen and heard you for a long time. [[State Secretary Rossmann: Because you weren't there!]] I heard you were in Floridsdorf once, but unfortunately we didn't meet there. I have already come to another point, namely energy policy. Today, the Federal Minister has tried to pray something healthy. One has to look at what the linkage of Austrian energy policy is currently looking like, and let us not forget that energy policy has been in the hands of the ÖVP for years. Minister Schüssel did not do anything at the time as Minister of Energy. Minister Ditz didn't do anything further as Minister of Energy. He is now to become Director-General at the ÖIAG, because if you don't get anything else there, you have to become something else important. Mr Farnleitner has already done nothing in this area, and Mr Bartenstein does not go any further. The only thing he always says is: Liberalisation, electricity prices are becoming cheaper – which by the way, by the way, has also been posterted by the liberals and is not true – but that is all in this context. Electricity has become more expensive, people no longer know each other. Eco-power, eco-energy, this is no longer an issue at all, it is no longer spoken of, nuclear energy is also sausage, it can be remanufactured, mixed. Where are the big statements for which the Freedom Party was still here a few months ago? These complicated links in domestic and foreign participations require coordination, a framework policy is simply needed. The energy economy of our country is the motor of any economic force and must not be left to chance and apparently not to this government. Of you, Minister of State, there were no regulations. They are leaning back, looking at how some wildly-wronged Director-Generals are pushing up and down shares, distributing and believing that they can somehow solve that. But the energy industry in Austria has been facing all liberalisation for about half a year, and no one knows how it continues. There is no suitable instrument. The energy report will no longer be delivered. We don't need that anymore. That's the new government. "New governance" means anything else, but nothing better. There must be no conditions in Austria as in California. In California, you have to expect the power to be turned off at any moment. I hope that this does not happen to us in the face of this policy. I wonder because of today's debate: What projects have been launched in the context of this discussion, which has come from the Government Bank, to strengthen Austria's economic location? I haven't heard from anyone so far! It is certain that the past one and a half years have been lost in Austria – one and a half years without a concept for long-term planning, without impulses for a strong economic location. But one thing you can say: Our economy is still doing well – but not because of your economic policy, but despite this federal government. The economy in Austria is currently supported by the social partners, the working people and the tirelessly working small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Who should do it? It's logical!]] The government's economic policy is lacking in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] They should do it, Mr. Ofner.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7615	As the next speaker, Mrs Schottel-Delacher is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7637	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I am a firm opponent of inappropriate economic and economic pessimism. You can talk things bad if you just give yourself enough effort. And the opposition is, in any case, quite arduous. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: It's not that hard!]] However, I dare to doubt whether it is compatible with Austria's economic location. I therefore come back to the very positive economic data that this government's economic policy has to show. In addition to encouraging employment and unemployment, healthy economic growth, a moderate inflation rate and the highest private investment volume in the EU with 22.5% of GDP, two more key figures are particularly important. In 2000, around 24 000 new companies were set up in Austria, 10 percent more than 1999 and about twice as much as at the beginning of the 1990s. Although the number of new entrants is a gratifying picture, there is still a need for recovery compared to other European countries. It will be up to us to create the necessary framework conditions for this. With each new establishment, each self-employed person not only creates new jobs, but also many other positive economic factors. The second particularly important feature I would like to mention, which has been read in all the media today, is the sensational export rate. The overall export rate in 1999 was still around 30.6 percent of GDP, it will be around 36 percent of GDP in 2001, and for the first time it will exceed the magic limit of 1 000 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How much?]] - 1,000 billion schilling. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Should you ever know in your debts?]] A success story that can really be seen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, given that the expiry of the German Federal Government's export offensive is ongoing, it will be necessary to develop follow-up programmes to maintain the competitiveness of Austrian exporters. However, good economic data must not cover up the fact that the Austrian entrepreneurs have also contributed to the consolidation course of this Federal Government by abandoning and partly not unimportant cuts. Only the new rules in the IFB, the provisions and the depreciation of losses are mentioned here. In return, however, the economy expects that the promised additional wage reduction will be consistently implemented and that the announced tax reform 2003 will actually take place. It is particularly important not to waste the advance of confidence – in this case the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With a tax reform from the point of view of the economy – and we are talking here about the economic chapter – the small and medium-sized enterprises should first and foremost, because they are Austria's biggest employers, as winners. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises and new entrants should not be hindered or restricted by complex tax systems or too high tax quotas or excessive bureaucracy and administrative burdens in their actual activities and in their competitiveness. The weaknesses mentioned by my colleague must therefore be resolved as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As we have already heard, Austria, according to the recent synthesis report of the EU Commission, in which the economic and social policies of the EU countries are measured on the basis of around 50 indicators, are behind and thus in the middle. I am convinced that we will be able to improve our position quickly if we continue to follow the path taken by the Austrian Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7726	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7747	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour has clearly left us. That's unfortunate. [[State Secretary Rossmann: Come back immediately!]] He'll be right back, very nice. First of all, I would like to address this contradiction between economics and work, which Mr Öllinger has already pointed out, and that continues. The shop opening times were already a point of discussion here today. Personally, I'm just such a case: I often stand in front of the fridge late in the evening, look in and find nothing inside. [[Abg. Perfuss: That's how you stay slim!]] I'm a typical case: I would like to buy later, I say now personally. But if one now takes a fair balance between the advantages and disadvantages that these arrangements may have under the circumstances, and especially the disadvantages that could have such a thing, I believe that the answer for an economic and labour minister, who considers both or several sides fairly, would have to be quite simple. What's the Minister of Economic Affairs doing? – It positions itself very clearly, namely exclusively for wholesale businesses. Especially in the Vienna election campaign and also in the whole of the Vienna discussion there are some technical arguments that contradict the very fundamental. First: For example, in the population of Vienna, there is a very great satisfaction as regards shop opening times. It wishes to and for itself no further flexibilization, except for a few small groups. The Vienna trading companies, for example, talk about each relevant survey – really with everyone! – with a very massive majority against a further expansion. [[Abg. Kiermaier: To the full!]] Only a few wholesale chains would stand out for it. A rather relevant point, which does not appear at all in the discussion, is: The current opening hours will not be exhausted at all. On average there are opening hours between 56 and 60 hours. That's the rule. Businesses could currently be open for 66 hours. Many studies also show that perhaps tourists would like to buy longer, but in this case, too, it does not take advantage of what might actually be possible. For example, for the inner city of Vienna, it would be possible to use the derogations and also open shopping streets on Sunday. That is not the case either. – So obviously there is no need for anyone – except for one, two wholesale chains. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this purpose, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour wants to take on massive pressure on workers, especially women, and massive labour deterioration for workers in this sector, in order to meet this very pronounced small lobbyist group. – I think that is a clear answer to this conflict of interests, economics and work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Stumvoll has somehow listed the weaknesses still to be solved. What is going on again and again and again and again and again in many international site studies in the evaluation of Austria, or at least on the ranks of one to four, are our restrictive alien employment schemes. It doesn't happen. When you carry out surveys, you see, no one understands what the IT professionals really mean is the logic behind the government's argumentation. The intention to implement the mating of economic hostility and xenophobia in such a way is absurd. If you would really take international site studies seriously, you would first change or resolve something in this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second area: Additional labour costs. We have often suggested that the situation in the energy sector, the prices that tend to fall, should be used to implement an environmental tax reform and to reduce additional labour costs. We have absolutely nothing to do with this. It is now the time when – under quotation marks – it "was least hurt" and at which it would be most useful. And the minister of the economy, ex-environmental minister, has repeatedly announced from 1995 on as one of his most important projects, but has not been implemented to this day. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Two sets remain on the weaknesses of infrastructure policy and technology policy. After the entry into force of the new ministerial structures, we have now for the first time been able – by the way we have promised – to end the pro-pore disputes between the Red Rail Infrastructure Ministry and the Black Road Construction Ministry in the area of transport infrastructure and, in some way, to seek a reasonable overall transport solution. – The opposite is the case: In the area of infrastructure policy, we currently have wish-making solutions for national leaders. There's someone getting up, then he gets a coral tunnel, and so on. This is infrastructural policy at the moment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A point was also raised: Export quota and technology policy. What always hurts me personally is that the opportunities now open up in the area of EU enlargement are so little used by Austria. The German Federal Foundation for the Environment estimates the total expenditure in Central and Eastern Europe and in the Balkans for the next few years at 22 billion Schilling. These are markets that become extremely interesting for our environmental technology. And what do you need for it? – This requires a certain amount of export support, which requires some incentive funding. And what does our Federal Government do? – It shortens the resources by saying and writing 100 million schilling in this area – in the area of eastern cooperation. This is a short-sighted economic policy and, by the way, it is also without responsibility for the environment if we look at what is to be done in the Balkans in the field of ecological reconstruction. To my last topic – I wanted to talk only about energy policy, but all these strengths and weaknesses were worth mentioning – on energy policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: Beautiful formulation "strong and weak points", I like that!]] You can accept this wording. [[Abg. Böhacker: May I not even say something positive?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I smiled at you anyway, that fits anyway. On energy policy – I have to stop smiling now, that is really a very serious matter –: Somehow, we are pretending to be not in 2001, but in 1999, still very far away from the full liberalisation and from structural adjustment on the Austrian electricity supply market, which has truly been "washed". I find it really unresponsible that an economic minister knows no answer to this threatening problem that our energy supply is offered to foreign electricity suppliers on the silver tablet, so to speak, as small hits, except to practice a little criticism of the national leaders and the national EVUs. It is absolutely necessary to finally establish an Austrian-wide network society as the backbone of our power supply and to ensure that this "Wadelbiteery", this misunderstanding federalistic stupidity, which is partly dominated by it, has an end to mutual billions of shopping in order to hinder each other exclusively. You may want to see which companies are those who are now interested in Austrian shares. The E.ON is not any company, but they have an annual turnover of 980 billion schilling. That's more than our budget, a war fund of almost 500 billion schilling. So for them this is really a "sleep" to buy here in Austria. And what is still going on and is always overlooked – now by the connection of power supply and water supply; The key word NÖSIWAG in Lower Austria – is that it offers not only the Austrian power supply of foreign nuclear companies on the silver tablet, but also the water supply. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am now also asking about the liberals in the direction of the colleagues: It is you who are always "hanging out of the window" against nuclear power plants, against Temelín and so on, but I am surprised that in these sales options, which are now in the room with the EVN, with the connection, with the shares that are now under discussion, you are not massively opposed to usury and prevent this purchase. It is about securing Austria as a production site! It is not only about anti-atomic policies, it is also about securing as a production site. I find it so unfortunate that it is not possible to define different goals and to pursue them in parallel. I always feel that the anti-atomic politicians are being smiled, and that it must be possible – also for an economic minister – for one to take economic policy objectives, energy policy objectives and self-esteemed environmental goals – these are objectives that we have set ourselves in anti-atomic policy and climate protection. It is more like a "Kindergarten discussion" if one says, in criticizing the acquisition of foreign electricity group shares, that they would be banned from international contacts. That's really absurd. It must be possible for you, as Minister of Economic Affairs, to combine and achieve energy objectives, business policy objectives and self-defined environmental objectives in parallel without evading anti-atomic politicians in this country and somehow dismissing the discussion on these issues as a "child garden discussion". I always have the impression that there will be the following rows again: There are the important economic policy objectives, while environmental policy and worker protection, these soft issues, are secondary. And this is a wrong set of priorities. I would like, Minister of Economic Affairs, to see you finally move a little further in the field of electricity solution for Austria, because it is too late in six months. From October we will have a massive problem with full liberalisation in the Austrian market. A sentence perhaps still to Mr Eder, because he has made himself strong for eco-power today – which is amazing to me because the SPÖ has agreed to the Electricity Liberalization Act, the ElWOG, and has failed to enjoy a massive advantage. It's known anyway, it's the famous "atom current gold" over the pump current: By imported mainly nuclear and coal-power water is pumped up and then sold very expensive at peak times. And you hear and marvel: This power supply through the Austrian network is completely free of loops, which do not pay for the passage through the Austrian network. And what's the eco-power doing? – The eco-power has to pay up to 1,40 S for passing through the public network. – I find that scandalous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After all, I am still sorry that the social democrats in the negotiations – we were not involved – did not massively address this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7901	Mr Mag. Tancsits is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7922	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pfeffer, who particularly welcomes me! As chairman of the Building Committee, I wanted to comment primarily on housing policy issues, but the previous debate on the labour market requires some comments. There was a discussion on the question: What is full employment? – The three-percent definition of unemployment is not an invention of these government fractions, but is common knowledge of economics, is common EU definition, is common OECD definition. I note that within this percentage in Austria, a significant proportion – almost half – of the unemployed reported at a given time have a re-establishment commitment, which further reduces this percentage, which we define as full employment. But whoever these statistics are too difficult, I recommend that you take one of the many daily newspapers in the hall to set up the job market, and you will see what full employment is and what is not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As far as the question of what does not mean full employment is concerned, I would again recommend to take daily newspapers from about two, two and a half years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Then you can – you too, Mr Eder! – see the difference between a social policy – and social is what creates work – and a socialist policy that speaks of work and employment, but has never achieved it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been discussed several times today on the worth mentioning contribution of the economy and the workers to the reorganisation of our finances. That is right, and it will be necessary here to go down from the high load rate. I already note, however, that this tax relief, for example in the area of wage and income taxes, has to be carried out as for workers after budgetary reorganisation. I also expect that a reduction in the additional wage costs to which we, as co- thinkful workers' representatives, have to be admitted, because it cannot be useful to tax labour, of course, as well as to benefit workers, such as the outstanding reduction in the unemployment rate, the service provider and the employee will also have to pay off and relieve them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Last point: The topic of housing. This is also located in this budget, but it is not a powerful authority, as Mr Ollinger said earlier, with many heads, but an important regulatory function. Residential construction is primarily residential development, housing policy and as a matter of country also located in the countries. However, the regulatory function seems to me to be an important one, and there have been changes, changes in the direction of housing promotion, changes in the direction of property formation. I remember what happened, for example, in the last budget accompanying law, where we were told about the left side of the house: If the federal government sells its housing companies, it will trigger a domino effect. The Community will be abolished. [[Abg. Eder: You didn't sell any!]] What does it really look like? – All nine federal states, no matter under any political leadership, have opted for the common good – that is also true and good – because it is signs of well-understood federalism that the federal government itself does not operate the housing economy, but that the perception of these things is state and community matter. Furthermore, we were prophesied that the rents will rise, that 106 000 tenants of an uncertain housing future – I think you called it – will face. [[Abg. Eder: You've gone up!]] We have already seen the vacating tenants from the BUWOG in Vienna biwakieren. Show me a rent that has risen, and then we can speak on, Mr Eder. [[Abg. Eder: Construction savings loans rose by 2.5 percent alone!]] That's not the case. That is why we will continue to pursue this housing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8011	Mrs Sophie Bauer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8035	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to address the comments made by Mr Tancsit, but I would like to give you one heart, Mr Tancsits: You and your colleagues always forget that you have been in government for almost 14 years. The measures you are now taking have we not been ready to take. I just want to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! While they have mentioned the social partners' proposal positively today, it is regrettable that the 2002 budget does not provide for an increase in the financial resources for further improvement of the preventive measures in the area of workers' protection. I'd like to say that through the new Workers' Protection Act, that's with 1. In January 1995, the number of accidents at work fell by 25 percent. That is less than 40,000 accidents at work. It is also a fact that the decline in accidents at work first saved a lot of people, and secondly, the Austrian economy alone saved 12 billion schilling in 1998. Federal Minister! Equally serious, though more tangible than accidents, are work-related diseases caused by stress at work or by mobbing. Competitive pressure and performance compression are factors which pose a serious health risk. The agenda is for the reduction of operational structures, breakdowns and personnel reduction. The remaining employees should work faster and faster, but more high-quality. Mr. Federal Minister! There are no measuring instruments for these forms of health damage as for the accident. The fact that stress is increasingly becoming a health risk at work was also the result of an EU-wide study by the European Agency for Safety and Health. Between 1994 and 1998, mental illness, which leads to disability pension, grew from over 7 percent to 24.6%. This concerns mainly older workers who have been subjected to decades of pressure. Federal Minister! In recent months, the employer's side has repeatedly brought in its ideas for changes in the field of workers' protection. It is called into question the control activity of the labour inspectorate. A requirement would be to reduce the minimum time spent by preventive professionals. Federal Minister! To submit these claims would be a step back to the 19th century. ==References== Who saves workers' protection saves them in the wrong place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You also said in a press release in December of last year: The labour inspector knows that everything goes much more quickly when the visit is prepared. We live in a working world where there is no need to hide. I am already wondering, Minister of State, how you then explain that the share of the shadow economy in Austria has increased from 4 per cent to 6 per cent of the gross domestic product. That's between 120 and 180 billion schilling. In order to address this very situation, prevention times should not generally be reduced. The workers must be able to take up their activities immediately at the construction sites and in the establishments. Federal Minister! In replying to a question on the protection of workers, you meant that a focus in your department was the preparation of the regulation on cancer-producing substances. I therefore believe that, especially in establishments and companies where many different types of chemicals are used, controls by the labour inspectors are important without registration and preventive periods must not be reduced, because, according to calculations by the General accident insurance institution, every accident at work costs the holding on average 27 000 S. Federal Minister! This is proof that occupational worker protection is of the utmost importance for the health of workers. It would therefore be a wrong way to use the savings fund for the precautionary measures by reducing the time spent by the preventive forces.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8101	Mr Pistotnig is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8123	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As one who has been a worker for 20 years and is independent and employer for 15 years, the arguments of the opposition appear to me as if the world were going wrong. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kubitschek goes out here and says that achieving the zero deficit is basically not necessary at all, although Mr Caspar One yesterday said that the goal of social democracy was that all people should be well. There's one point of view. Mr Oellinger and Mrs Glawischnig say that it was not in keeping with the fact that business and work are united in a ministry. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What is the economy? Economics – if you don't know – I want to help you get to the jumps – is the interaction of an employer and an employee. If I don't have an employee, I can't be an employer, and if I don't have an employer, I can't be an employee. Leave Get on it, Mr. Cap! - You don't have to talk to me! And you know why not? – You are one of those who sit here on your side talking about business for all their lives, but not even a second in their lives earns or used money at their own risk! I have to tell you that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But the Gaugg already!]] If I don't understand anything, Mr Cap, I don't talk big, but then I listen and learn. And I would recommend that to you too! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ( towards SPÖ) The Gaugg was also in the private sector!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The economy is quite clear that it needs workers who deserve well, but this worker is also a consumer who lets money flow back into the economy, so to speak. So, of course, every employer strives for a worker to earn well, so that he can consume it as well. Of course: If one considers that the only social gain is the profits of the entrepreneur, and the rest does not interest him, then there is no need to talk about it here! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Gaugg doesn't say that!]] But, unfortunately, Mr Oellinger is not here. What happens, Mr Cap, if there is no profit, as was the case in your party's government for a long time? How was it done at the time? As opposition politician Kreisky said: 4 billion schilling state deficits are a disaster, a cowardice! – But as head of government, he said: 1 billion schilling debts are better for me than for the unemployed! – Finally, we had almost 2 trillion debts! And in your time of government there was the highest unemployment rate at all! Only under this federal government is there again close to full employment in Austria: thanks to a functioning economy, which, of course, also comes from Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's what Gaugg says again!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, what have you done in your "economic art"? – They have almost broken down the small and medium-sized enterprises, but they have supported the industries! Finally, we had debts in Austria – and no jobs! The Cheyenne tribe has a suitable saying: Horseman, if you notice your horse is dead, get off! – You have noticed that your horse is dead, but you have never replaced the horse, but have bought three more dead horses and probably thought that you will make the race with it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But that's not the Cheyenne, it's just you!]] But you lost the race! And you have "created" that Austria became the final light of Europe in this regard! That was your "success"! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Nürnberger, you have – except to make demands! – Your life has nothing to do with it! Have you ever earned a big money where you used your capital? - Not even once! You can say that by an entrepreneur! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] To the trade unionists and to you, Mr Nürnberger: If today a trained vehicle mechanic earns a monthly net of 12 000 S according to collective agreement, I ask you what you are for. Act out at least 14 000 s, and then this vehicle mechanic will be better! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nuremberger: Read what this collective contract really stands in it!]] – Then I didn’t need to pay this vehicle mechanic 20 percent over the collective contract, because that would be the case for him. [[New calls from the Abg. Nürnberger.]] This is the truth, Mr Nürnberger! Everyone can talk big, just: It must also follow actions! I'm telling you today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Tell the shark: everyone can talk big!]] In this wrong world, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy and of the Greens you want to raise, you will probably also misinterpret proverbs, namely: "Save in time, then you'll be in trouble!" – Do you know how you clearly understand this? – Save in need, you have time to do that! But the brave and diligent citizens of Austria have not deserved this! We will anyway know your "Economics" and all these your demands to prevent!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8355	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8398	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I am trying to bring the debate back to where it belongs: In Austria, labour market policy is not a show cabaret, but a very serious issue, a problem with which many people in Austria still have to fight, because they are unemployed and because they have no chance of living on the labour market. Minister Bartenstein, you said that in Austria we had a "dried out labour market". - That's what gave me to think. I do not know whether you, Mr Minister, are seriously convinced of this – or whether the cynicism you made play here. Minister! Is a labour market "dried out" if only 33,000 disadvantaged people have been waiting for a job for years on the so-called first labour market? Mr Bartenstein, these are not some of the figures I have now presented to you from somewhere, but that is actually the state of the 1. February 2001: 33,000 people with disabilities are unemployed; 21 691 men and 11 309 women are looking for work! But you, Minister, believe that the labour market in Austria has been "dried out", which means as much as: All people have a job. Minister! If you believe what you have said, even a little yourself, then I ask you all seriously: Why have accident pensioners been removed 2.7 billion schillings to make 1 billion schillings available to disabled people again, if you do not think that there is any unemployed disabled people? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There, Minister, the question is also raised: What do you do with this billion when this money is supposed to no longer need disabled people? Is this also going to be allocated to the budget at the expense of people with disabilities? I have had this suspicion for a long time, Minister, and I suspect that you will also make this one billion schilling disappear somewhere in the budget, and your statement has made you even stronger today. And I also ask you, Minister of Economic Affairs: What do you say about it on the one hand – and these are the data of the federal government on the other. February 2001 – 33 000 disabled people are unemployed, but on the other hand also in your ministry are not complying with the obligation to set up disabled persons? You, Mr Minister, have the responsibility to bear in mind that this law is also being observed in your ministry! – This applies not only to you, Mr Bartenstein, but also to Her colleague Gehrer, who could occupy 1,700 jobs with disabled people in her area, does not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Strasser could also employ more than 1,000 disabled people in his area, but he does not! And why is that not done everywhere? – Not because there are no more disabled people in Austria, but because you have created the ground for being for 2,000 s a month – I emphasize: for 2,000 s a month! – can buy free from the attitude of disabled people, as it were! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] South Tyrol is not far from here, and if you were to hear a little bit about this, you would already have to know how to face unemployment in the disabled. Not as it happens in Austria that a group of people with disabilities have taken away something to give a small part to another group of people with disabilities. No, you didn't do that in South Tyrol! There is no such a disgraceful method there, but in South Tyrol one has raised the compensation tax, but not by 10 S or by 15 S, but in South Tyrol this compensation tax has been raised to 40 000 S per month for every job not occupied with a disabled person! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And do you know what happened in South Tyrol? – The unemployment rate of disabled people has fallen from 12 to 2.3 percent due to this measure! This request, Mr President, which has become a reality in Bolzano, I have been putting this idea here in Bolzano for years, but again and again these requests are being rejected by us Greens when it comes to increasing the compensatory tax to 40 000 s. And as long as these applications are rejected, we will have an unemployment rate of 40 percent in Austria for disabled people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That brings you your "Millions of people with disabilities" who have robbed you of a group of people with disabilities to give them to another group, nothing, Mr. Minister! Nothing! This will not bring you anything for so long as you and the Minister of Social Affairs maintain the possibility that you can buy yourself out of the disabled's employment obligation at dumping prices, just for 2 060 S. Mr Bartenstein! I expect clear words from you today and here to raise the tax on compensation – and also clear words on why this duty of recruitment is not fulfilled both in ministries and in close-to-state establishments, or I also expect an answer to what you intend to do about it. Minister! We Greens no longer allow – and with "we" I also mean the disabled people of Austria – that you pursue a labour market policy at the expense of disabled people, allowing you to have an unemployment rate of 40 percent! - Now, Mr. Minister, have to be done!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8529	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8550	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat amazed at the way in which the issue of employment is discussed here, as in particular the objectively comprehensible fact that there is almost full employment in Austria to be reinterpreted here. Recently, we have commissioned a survey from the ÖVP Economic Federation on behalf of businesses – we have already received the results – as their situation is how they experience the situation on the labour market. And these results speak a very clear language: More than three quarters of local businesses consider the search for employees to be "extremely difficult"; 30 percent of these businesses need three months to search for suitable staff, often even longer! So "dried out" is this labour market, Mrs. Haidlmayr! However, full employment or "dried out" labour market does not, of course, mean that there can still be problems in the labour market. And disability employment and employment is such a problem, just as other groups have problems in the labour market, often also problems in finding a job for individual people. – One does not rule out the other in any way, only: I find this polemic in the argument, in the inadmissible connection of these two points, quite strange. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's right!]] Mrs Haidlmayr, on the disabled: You can try to approach this problem in such a way that the penalties are tightened. – This is a possibility, and I don’t want to judge whether this would actually be a target. However, I would like to have another idea, because I believe that the law on the recruitment of disabled persons and the related protection against the disabled is directed against the disabled. I believe that this is a provision that, although well-intentioned, is, in fact, a lot of businesses just stop them from recruiting a disabled person, because of course they can get a problem with it, because: Whatever circumstances occur – and there may be circumstances that no longer make it possible to continue to employ a disabled person –: In any case, it will then be very, very difficult, even often almost impossible to resolve such an employment relationship again. Therefore, once again: I believe that this provision is directed against the disabled and is not a protection for the disabled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are already facing major problems in the labour market today, getting good workers, even workers at all; this is one thing. The demographic development of the next few years – and this is predictable – will help yours to make this problem even worse. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore high time for action to be taken in a variety of ways: in the education sector, for example. We need to be more active in this area and to try to force the training and the use of trainees towards the economic and labour-market-related fields of training. Further: Measures relating to advice, including the creation of incentives to go in these fields of training, because we will no longer be able to afford training in areas for which there is no demand on the part of the labour market in view of the drying out of the labour market. Second point: We will have to try urgently to increase the employment rate of older workers. We will no longer be able to afford to ourselves in Austria that, as was the case in the past, there is the lowest retirement age in all of Europe, and that on average, people are already in retirement for less than 60 years, and are often pushed into retirement. The recent pension reform is a step in the right direction, i.e. in the direction of the extension of work, of working life, because otherwise we can no longer afford to do so in a number of ways: on the one hand, because in the event of ever increasing life expectancy, the pension system is threatening to get out of the joints, and on the other hand, because we can no longer afford to do so on the labour market, because otherwise we will not be able to benefit from opportunities in terms of economic development. Finally, one last point: We will have to take one step – this one is already thought or promised – towards labour costs in Austria, namely to further reduce the cost burden on human labour. This will happen in 2003, and I am convinced that: This will be an important step in setting up incentives for the labour market or in preventing the relocation of work abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8624	The next speaker is Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8645	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief look at the comments made by my previous speaker, the head of my colleague, and the survey he quoted: Karlheinz, who is being searched? Is it not the case that companies find it so difficult to find employees because they should be young, if possible not older than 20 years, as if they were 60-year-olds – and should be as cheap as they were 15-year-olds? [[Call the ÖVP: It's all wrong!]] It is, of course, very difficult to find suitable workers, ladies and gentlemen. This should also be said here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would also like to make some fundamental comments on our major enterprises, which remain largely in public ownership: They also have certain objectives – for example, Mr. Federal Minister, economic objectives – and above all public interests. In my opinion, they should not forget the spearhead of economic growth, infrastructure improvements, regional and social progress and – please! – to be environmental protection. This would be all about our undertakings, whose realization I would urgently wish from a Federal Minister Bartenstein. What is actually happening in Austria at the moment? – In my opinion, business policy is currently only more geared to business interests and far too little to the interests of employees. I would like to briefly illustrate this on the example of the union: In recent years, the number of posts has been reduced from nearly 6 000 to 3 300 employees. Now, in turn, 15 percent, i.e. 400 employees are to be reduced, and 1 300 people are expected to be subject to change in the near future. Social benefits fixed by contract are shortened. At the same time, one can read and say that the company earns well, shows a profit increase per share by 18 percent in 2001 compared to 2000, with even dividend payment. In my opinion, this company has long been fit for competition. No one can explain to me that the union should have had such an employment upholstery. I can still understand that by a fifth or by myself a quarter is reduced; but if the number of employees is reduced by half and the number of employees is still too high, either has not voted in this company at all, or will not vote now. If you speak abroad: in our neighbouring countries, a little look around, if you look at what happens in Germany at the E.ON or at the RWE, which operates in the same liberalized electricity market, then it is noticed that there has been a systematic increase in the number of employees since 1995. Here is recorded and not dismantled. Even more dramatic, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation in the OMV for me. The year 2000 – all of us have heard this – has produced a record result for the OMV. The operating success was 72 percent – say and write 72 percent! – to, and a similar result is expected for 2001. The dividend paid to shareholders in 2000 was increased to 4.30 y, by exactly 79 percent. – Despite such record results, staff costs are to be further drastically reduced. We really don't need to be surprised at the fact that the employees don't like it. Even worse than this development in human resources policy – because it is more effective for the longer term – I believe that research and development capacity in these companies is also being reduced, and that, for example, internal training, especially apprenticeship training, is being drastically reduced. And then we all complain here in the House that no qualified workers can be found on the labour market! No one really needs to be surprised when it is precisely those undertakings that have provided young people with skilled workers in a truly outstanding way up to now that have developed in such a negative way. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I am looking for you, since, in your capacity, you are not only responsible for the economy, but also for the work and the labour market, in such a way as to save the labour market, but in your ownership role in companies with high federal participation they are performing them in a positive sense. Austria, Ladies and gentlemen, don't be California! We should be kept from that. With us the lights should not go out just because we save in the wrong place at the time! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8702	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8723	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Oberhaidinger! The lights won't go out so fast in Austria – I can calm you down. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You can't warn enough about it!]] But I can't quite understand your statement that the companies in the high economy have difficulty getting employees because they only want young and cheap people and because these cheap young people should have the experience of old ones. Farms are now in competition, and everyone has to calculate cost-effectively. The policy is there to change the framework conditions, and this is now happening immediately: Reform steps are being implemented. But I know of course that we also need to go other ways: Mr Kopf mentioned earlier that the labour force must be expropriated in the future. I'm going to conform with him on this point: We need to get rid of work performance and take a little more on value added. That will be the way to the future! I can tell you, after all, that under this federal government, the "Action Fairness", which has also been called for by the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, has been implemented by this coalition. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: To the detriment of employees!]] The objective of general alignment between workers and employees has been implemented. There is still a lack of equality in the protection of termination, but this is a matter for the social partners, which is regulated by the collective agreement, and there the social partners are still required. They're juicy! In my opinion, the ÖGB represents only the people in those areas in which it has many members, but as a representative of interests, it should actually represent the interests of all workers and not only have a heart for those workers in whose area the number of members is high. That would be important, because otherwise the ÖGB will become a lobbyist of a two-class society, and that cannot be. This Federal Government has done a lot in the field of vocational training. The number of apprentices is rising. The proportion is again 44 percent – half of all young people complete vocational training – and the development in teaching professions is very positive. Mobility in the labour market requires a certain degree of flexibility. It is true today that everyone changes their profession two to three times in life. I therefore believe that training should also be very large-scale and should take place on a broad basis in the field professions. It will be necessary to involve computer and at least a foreign language in all professional sectors. That will be essential. Of course, there must also be niche professions, but only to a lesser extent. Ladies and gentlemen! For the extension of seasonal working time. . Here, substantial emphasis has been placed on full employment. In the past, nothing has gone on in this area for years. It is a long-term open-up of tourism companies up to the year-round tourism. The Secretary of State has already presented a number of models here. I am confident that we can extend the opening hours in this area. Measures have already been launched to provide seasonal workers with a working time model allowing longer employment or longer calculation periods. The tourism figures were actually the best in the last year – despite EU sanctions. There has also been no loss in the Congress. The 2000 balance sheet was wonderful: We had a record turnover of, I think, 213 billion schilling. To you, Minister of State: They are a defender of the expansion of shop opening times. I cannot entirely follow your intentions on this point, because in Austria, I think there are many opportunities at national level to extend the shop opening times in tourist areas on the regulatory path by the national leaders, so that it can be kept open on Sundays or evenings. I believe that it would be very difficult, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and for employees there, if the opening time of 66 hours would be extended further. - I just want to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's where you have to put yourselves in the government!]] That is what we are going to do, Mr President. Perhaps we also have your support for this – I would very much like it to be. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Sure at this point!]] Very good! I would like to lose a word very briefly at the time of use of the occupational physicians: In my opinion, working hours of the occupational physicians should be changed to meet the respective requirements depending on the industry. Health risk and accident frequency are different in different sectors, periods of sick leave vary, and this should also be taken into account during the period of use of occupational doctors. It is a difference whether a person has a office workplace, whether he has a production workplace or whether he is active in the construction industry, because this involves different risks, and therefore different working hours of the occupational physicians are also necessary. That's where we have to put the lever. Ladies and gentlemen! Otherwise, I would like to say: A balanced household is certainly not a self-interest, but a starting point for ensuring the quality of life of younger and older generations and enables fair and just social compensation and the realization of social justice indeed!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8811	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8832	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of a Council of Ministers meeting in October last year, the Federal Government decided to privatise the insolvency and default fund. This decision of the Federal Government is now to be implemented by a federal law and an IAF-Service GmbH is to be founded. There is no objection to this planned exclusion in the matter. However, I strongly protest against the local policy that this Federal Government is running in connection with this exclusion. According to § 5 of the draft amendment to the Insolvency Insolvency Insurance Act for the settlement of insolvency matters in Styria, only one administrative unit with the seat in Graz is to be responsible. The Leoben site would be deleted without replacement. In my view, this is totally unacceptable, but not because there would be something to do with necessary streamlining in the administrative sphere or against debureaucratisation, but because Leoben, with the loss of the ISG, is acting on the opposite side, namely the destruction of an efficient administrative unit, the loss of jobs and, finally, a higher cost burden. [[Abg. Edler: Bartenstein against the Styria!]] The location of Wiener Neustadt and Bregenz is also inconceivably affected by the closure after this draft. What are the arguments that speak for Leoben and against the closure of this location? – Compared with other IESG positions, the Leoben outdoor station has an above average degree of performance. The duration of the administrative procedures is also significantly below the Austrian average. Furthermore, with 17 District Courts the largest explosive in Austria is the explosive of the Leoben District Court, for which the IESG-station Leoben is responsible. All agents relating to the performance of the ISG and the performance of the tasks for the IAF can be carried out directly on-site at the national court of Leoben, the financial office, the AMS, the District Head Team and the Insolvency Association Leoben. All these advantages of the Leoben service, which I have now indicated, were lost due to the planned merger with the IESG office Graz. A breakdown is caused by the burden of the customers concerned, the workers, and this also creates very long and unreasonable routes of arrival. Even the opinion underlying this measure does not dispute all these advantages of the Leoben site. As early as the previous year, in November of last year, when plans for the withdrawal of Leoben were first announced, I took the initiative as a Member of this region and tabled a parliamentary request. ==References== In February of this year, a debate took place at ISG Leoben on my suggestion with the employees there in the presence of Udo Grollitsch, member of the FPÖ National Council and Hannes Missethon, ÖVP. At the time, we were pleased to agree that everyone tried – I emphasize: everyone tried – to seek support in his party for the preservation of the Leoben external office. Mr Grollitsch has even made the proposal that I should make a request on this subject on my group, which is what happened. But like Black and Blue at the federal level, the competent politicians at the regional level also give a sad picture in connection with the outside Leoben. The list of important projects in the Obersteiermark, which were prevented by Black-Blue, is now included in the list. Our upper spine is supposed to be starved. [[Abg. Edler: What does the Bartenstein say?]] First of all, there were full-fledged promises with regard to over-party cooperation and joint efforts. Now there are only more concealment and diffamation campaigns on the part of these alleged representatives of the people. What is worth, for example, the statements of a Member of the Grollitsch House – unfortunately, he is not in plenary session – are still worth it on 15 November. March of this year in the "Small Newspaper" claimed that the concern for the outside Leoben was unfounded from his point of view, which appears in several ways. ==References== March of this year, at 10.23 a.m., the staff will receive by e-mail the notice that their department will be dissolved and the staff with 1. July this year has to be commuted to Graz. – That’s pure cynicism! This is the policy of driving ÖVP and FPÖ at the expense of the employees concerned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The best links and the enormous influence of Mr Grollitsch in his party and group, which he repeatedly points out, are exemplary in the present draft to amend the ISG. This is intended to remove the Leoben site without replacement. – So this is Udo Grollitsch’s policy and the way in which he deals with people and with clear, objectively comprehensible concerns of a region! However, the crown is still set up by further statements by the FPÖ member Grollitsch and the ÖVP Federal Council of Missethon, who apparently declared in an attack of "admirable" naïve openness, only because a Social Democratic MP – i.e. I – has managed to take the initiative, will now close the IESG office! – The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Mr Grollitsch, says that there is no chance of adopting it at all. Reasons for this: He was brought in by the opposition, and he had such an one – so it is in an article in the "Small Newspaper" of the 10th century. Read March of this year – no chance at all. ==References== March, a day after this request was submitted, Udo Grollitsch thanked me here for having submitted this request. – This clearly shows the democratic understanding and credibility of Udo Grollitsch! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch is just entering the meeting room.]] Now he's here! - You came too late, unfortunately! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Government! I would therefore like to ask you: Prove democratic culture. Do not torpede a well-founded, sensible concern, and allow the Getting the ISG position in Leoben for the benefit of people throughout the Upper Styria!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8905	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. Deputies! I'll interrupt at 3:00. I would ask you to understand this and ask me to make a brief statement either to the effect that your speech has ended by then, or to continue your speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8953	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't have the time to get so short, so I can only start now and have to continue afterwards. Mr. Minister a. D. Edlinger inspired me to the extent that I noticed that since he was no longer in the ECOFIN and apparently spent more time with the hairdresser or elsewhere, some things have occurred, which suggests a certain loss of reality among your colleagues: They complain, on the one hand, of revenue-based measures, but on the other hand they also complain – with every chapter presented here today – of expenditure-side measures, and, on the other hand, you are obviously in favour of continuing debt policy. I cannot understand that if I consider the development of our debt as measured by GDP. This debt level in relation to GDP is very difficult insofar as it actually deteriorates and does not improve in the course of the period. For 2001, we are expected to reduce our debt ratio to 62.8 percent this year. The EU will reach 60.7 percent in the same period. So the difference will be 2.1 percent. Next year, the situation will be that we have 61.0 percent in Austria and 57.9% in the European Union. What does that mean? – This means that we will have more difference by one percentage point than this year, namely 3.1 percent! One percentage point is, however, 30 billion schillings in gross national product! But what does 30 billion schilling mean? – That our overall competitiveness in comparison with the other nations actually deteriorates and does not improve despite our savings efforts. That is, if we do nothing here and if we do not even accelerate here, then we lose investment, then we lose jobs, then we have a real tightening of the problem. Günter Stummvoll has also mentioned the current account: You should have gone – and it is hardly mentioned – that our current account is the fourth worst in the European Union! In other words, We are still living today on our conditions, and we need to counter this trend much more in the interests of our country than we are already doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8998	I have to interrupt you now, honourable Member. I'm asking for your understanding. You have the opportunity to continue your speech later. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9019	I interrupt the negotiations on the IX Consultative Group on the implementation of a short debate. This short debate concerns the request made by Mrs Mag. Plank, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 387/A by Dr Gusenbauer and Comrades to a Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, is limited to 9. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are now entering the debate. The speaking time for the first speaker is 10 minutes, for all other speakers 5 minutes. For members of the Federal Government and for state secretaries, a term of 10 minutes shall be considered as a target. It is the first speaker to speak to the applicant, Mrs Mag. Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9057	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker placed two newspaper excerpts with caricatures on the speaker's desk.]] Member of the European Parliament Bösch has said here today that the main objective of this government is to re-establish the budget. – Mr Bösch von der FPÖ! This game is over! – Wait for the end of my speech and then laugh! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Based on the title of a work by Jean-Paul Sartre, "Les jeux sont faits": The game is really out! [[Call to the liberals:Rien ne va plus!]] The people in Austria know it, we in the opposition know it, and many of you know it too. You know, Toni Knerzl, and leading economic researchers know too. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only the wife Plank does not understand!]] 'Null Justice' is read in the 'trend'. "The black and blue coalition is just about to make even worse the shale in which our country is located. Of course, all Austrians have to make contributions to achieve the difficult but sensible objective of a balanced budget. But they are more and more unjustly distributed." And on top of that: "Just like that horror scenario, economic researchers increasingly paint on the wall and at the same time warn against undifferentiated insistence on pursuing the zero deficit target." - Quote. This fetish zero deficit that you're about to cover up, people and fates behind numbers, naked and cold numbers. It's cold, it's irrational, it's unfair! A small accident pensioner has nothing of the zero deficit, but a small accident pensioner has the right to continue living in Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Parent]] I emphasize: to be able to! - That's it! We, the Social Democrats, the Opposition, have been telling you for months. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Murauer and Mr Großruck.]] But you are not only blind on one eye, but you are also blind and deaf to what your task is to make policy for people, Mr Grossruck. I emphasize: for people! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] The "simple party member" from the south of Austria – after a several months of horrendousness – understood when it meant – I quote it – that one should not make policy for the EU or for the Monetary Fund, but should make it for the citizen. - That's it! What did you do when we told you, and again and again! Your magic word "spare" no longer works, and it has not been long since. [[Abg. Knerzl: You should have done this in the past, namely save!]] In this context, I can quote Haider again. He said it would have to be considered that people can't just get over it, like the accident pensions. The "man" is you! That's you, Toni, that's Mr Grollitsch, that's you from the FPÖ, and that's you from the ÖVP. You're "man"! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] But today, ladies and gentlemen of the larger government party, you can prove that there is no force in you, as you always say, because you can decide today for our request and thus for the people in Austria. [[Abg. Neudeck: We can always decide, not just today!]] You have the chance to prove this today. You're in good company when you go with us. "Currently" to the Vienna election result: "It was an affluence for federal politics." "In total, however, it can be assumed that the Vienna Freemans had to do away with the Um-Every-Preis-Sparpolitik of the Federal Government." – Quote Andreas Mölzer. Or Gustaf Ströhm in a comment in the same newspaper: "Achieving a zero deficit may be a pious intention, but it is far from a substitute for politics. What devil did the members of the liberal government ride to work with students and student parents (introduction of study fees), with officials (abolition of Pragmatization), with car drivers (snacks of the vignette price and other costs), with pensioners, with accident pensioners, with the cash doctors and the patients (ambulance fee)?" I ask you again: Which devil did the FPÖ ride? – Write that in your paper "Currently" Andreas Mölzer and Co.; I can give it to you. [[Deputies Edler and Grabner: The Khol!]] You give us the right! The game is out for this technocratic policy. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Parent]] It has lost, so quickly and so finally, Mr Ofner. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You are making great hopes! "Don't be happy too early!"]] Haider – no insignificant FPÖ politician – on financial policy Grasses: The social security package was as necessary as a crook. That was nothing but a trap for totally incompetent experts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. ==References====External links== You son of a bitch.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Swim, take care of the Krimmler Bahn – and calm down!]] Today, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you have the choice again! In reality, however, the unofficial and official party leaders do not leave you any choice. Ms. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer said on Monday: The mistake we made – and we have to say that clearly – was the accident pension tax. That was something that really hit the "little" people, and that must be corrected. – Yes, Mrs. Vice chancellor, that must be corrected! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] You no longer have a choice if you want to keep a spark of credibility. I do not want to describe the caprioles of the Vienna top candidate of the FPÖ here again. She has lost her confidence in nine and a half weeks when she officially said so to the accident pension tax one day. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Those who give up their skills in this way after nine and a half weeks do not need to hope for confidence anymore. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] However, you, the others here – you have no choice; unless you go to the knees before the threats of the most powerful ÖVP federal politician, the head of state Pröll. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why are you so bitten today?]] He says, "if it's supposed to be too colorful for the FPÖ" – that's what Land Captain Pröll says, not me. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We are afraid already!]] We take note of the following: The Christian-social party has no heart and no sense of responsibility. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We are afraid of the measure!]] – You have to fear that too! Perhaps here in Parliament among the FPÖ delegates there are people with a sense of responsibility, or at least people who will not give in to the self-debt and avoid collective suicide. Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler – if you were there! They didn't need to clear away any foreign Schuttberge anymore. In just a few months, you've piled up so much dirt, mountains from Schutt and Politwasser that you don't even see beyond. Start cleaning up! Parliamentarians can help you today. Be man enough, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, and take you according to your model... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's not here anyway!]] You'll tell him. [[Abg. Grabner: He's never here!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Also take according to your model Haider...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9363	Ladies and gentlemen! I call the applicant! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9378	Take all like your model Haider the demands, the arguments of the opposition finally perceive and finally seriously! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're not reading!]] You will certainly not want to hang on to Khol's lips if he thinks in his reform ABC under "U " the accident pension tax. They will have to follow the unanimous decision of the Kärntner State Government. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Brunhilde Plank! Why are you doing such a whirlwind?]] Klagenfurt, 2. Decision of the Carinthian Landtag on no taxation of accident pensions: The national government is invited to negotiate with the Federal Government to ensure that the current taxation of accident pensions is withdrawn. – Kärntner Landtag decision! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you have no choice. Voices You must submit our request for deadlines! Austria's accident pensioners are waiting for Austria to see who is going through the FPÖ: Me or me? Who's going through?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9426	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9441	The Haider Group, the Riess-Passer Group, the Gaugg Group – he has given remarkable information today and knows that the course of the FPÖ is wrong – or the Prinzhorn-Grasser Group with the support of FPÖ-Gorbach and Pröll? Actually, you have no choice. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. President! The time!]] Throw away your petrified hearts, and end the unsocial, unjust and unconstitutional policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9480	Mrs Silhavy is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9510	Mr President. High house! No, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, nothing will be saved! Against these injustices, against these non-social measures, against these social hardships and colds, we will be dealing with social democrats for so long as they exist through you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, Mr. Khol was here at the speaker's desk and spoke of a "politics with brain and heart". Ladies and gentlemen, I told you yesterday: This policy with brain and heart will not be yours in Austria! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't interest us anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The taxation of accident pensions is unsocial for a number of reasons. Mr Plank has already stated that the people concerned are people with low incomes. It is about a pension, about pensions that have a lower basis of assessment. It is also about people having experienced suffering at work – that they have lost an arm, a leg, or perhaps cross-sectional — for these extra burdens of life. These people, who have always put their health at risk, still take away money. That's a social cold, that's a stone's heart, that's not a heart! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] I do not see Mr Gaugg now. Obviously, he has already been shot down by Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, who said he had voted in favour, and he will have to carry all of this. [[Abg. Neudeck:... "screw"?]] But in any case, he should consider this well. A person who gets an accident pension, who is cross-sectional, who drives in the wheelchair and therefore goes to a hospital clinic, because not all doctor's practices are built properly, may in future, if it goes after you, pay hospital fees again? - That's social cold! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He's chronic!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Not at all true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's not true!]] This is politics without a brain and without a heart, I say! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Saviour: You must stick to the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can prove it to the public [[Abg. May. Saviour: Stay with the truth!]] You have a policy of maintaining pure power, or do you believe that politics in this state should also be made for the people for whom citizens of this country are to be made? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you want to make a policy for the people, take the opportunity at last and agree to our request! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: " Chance at the Opportunity"!]] Take this opportunity! – They laugh at it; you may find it ridiculous. You're not in the wheelchair! [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rada: Awesome!]] You have lost no hand or arm! But you laugh that you're taking the money out of these people. [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is now the ÖVP policy?! - I'm "gratulating" you! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] You're showing exactly what social cold you're doing your policy with. It's only about maintaining power, it's not about a single person in this country! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You have it 30 years like that...!]] That's terrifying! Mr. Ofner! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes!]] In thirty years we have put in place measures for these people and have created a prosperity in this country in which all people were able to participate. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I've experienced it! You started well and you ended up awfully!]] They take this man's wealth, the poorest of the poor, and that's shocking! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't be hateful...!]] Mr. Ofner! I'm not filled with hatred. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Politics with hatred!]] You have a stony heart, that's terrifying! This stone heart must hurt these people, the accident pensioners and accident pensioners. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You read too many fairy tales! The "stone heart" is from Grimm!]] It's bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... hate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Don't worry, there's no hatred in social democracy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the liberals.]] We're going to politics because of humanity because we love people. Unfortunately, they do the opposite of God, and that is why we are fighting the policies you are pursuing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Politics with hatred!]] Mr. Ofner! You, your group, and the ladies and gentlemen of the EIA will be able to demonstrate whether you are making a policy for people or not. Voices Finally, you are calling on us to abolish this unsocial taxation of accident pensions!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9856	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9904	Mr President. High house! [["Gaugg" call at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Please stop the clock! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9936	Ladies and gentlemen, I now call Mr Böhacker. [[Abg. Grabner: I mean, now the Gaugg is talking!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please start with your comments.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9968	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Grabner: Say, is that the Gaugg?]] It's embarrassing. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, embarrassing for you!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] It is really embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, how you operate cheap party polemics on the back of the injured. [[General acknowledgment]] Shame! That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What these two previous speakers have put forward on arguments today are sounding earfights for old social democrats. [[Call the SPÖ:For you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, take note of this! I'll prove it to you. Until 1972, the accident pensions were tax-free. Only by the Income Tax Act 1988 did the accident pension become taxable. [[Abg. Grabner: How the Gaugg looks...!]] Who was the Minister of Finance at the time? Who was the Minister of Social Affairs? [[Abg. Silhavy: This is an older Gaugg...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It was the Social Democratic Dkfm. Lacina! Lacina introduced the accident pension tax. The Social Minister was Walter Geppert of Social Democracy. When you get out of here, you're doing a double-bedded thing that can't be surpassed, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] It was the Constitutional Court that repealed these provisions. [[Abg. Silhavy:... describe your policy!]] Your heme on the fact that the Constitutional Court has recently repealed two laws for formal reasons, you can refer to yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! [[Abg. Grabner: Yes, you have made the law!]] [[Abg. Edellinger:... the voters!]] I'll tell you one thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10133	Ladies and gentlemen! In a short debate, each speaker has only 5 minutes for his speech. Please give each speaker a fair chance to present his arguments.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10160	I do not hide that the taxation of accident pensions is a very sensitive thing, even if it is tax-basedly clear. [[Abg. Edlinger: We would have liked to hear the Gaugg!]] The past has proved that it can and has come to be hard. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This government has recognized that there has been a situation of hardship, and we will put in place those measures that eliminate these hardships. [[Abg. Sweamlein: The template...!]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Abfedern!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We do not need you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] ==References== This year, a resolution on this subject was tabled and decided on the list of cases of hardness to be eliminated. [[Abg. Edlinger: "Fed off" and except!]] We are not here, however, to protect those top earners who, in addition to their top income, are still tax-free to receive an accident pension. [[Abg. Silhavy: What is a case of hardness?]] That's not our job! [[Abg. Silhavy: Who said that?]] We have to take care of the little ones and not the rich! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger:... will rejoice!]] Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to your deadline request: Throwing away for weeks You're going to get this government to work too fast, too fast, "speed kills". [[Abg. ==References====External links== Dr. Khol clearly) Khol said that!]] This is your deadline application under the motto "speed kills quality"! This is your job – a bad job, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let me tell you again: This government will solve the problem of accident pension taxation. We make politics for the people and not, like Lacina and Co, against the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10360	Before I give the next speaker the floor, I will try again for more peace. It is not fair not to give the speaker the chance that he will be heard accordingly! The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10385	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now the fourth time that we are dealing with this issue as our own agenda item outside the budget negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I'd like to tell you again... [[Abg. Hunter: We will present it until you are ready to do these injustices...!]] Listen to me, please. – Again: Yes, we are ready to talk about accident pension taxation, and we want to initiate an objective discussion on this issue. We have tabled a motion for a resolution and we have asked the government to set up an expert group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is the first point I would like to make: We are ready to talk about this! [[Abg. Edlinger: Ambulance fee!]] Mrs Plank! The small accident pensioner is not taxed by us. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The little accident pensioner is not taxed! I would like to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you had read our motion for a resolution, you would know exactly that – and you have read it and you know it, but you just don't want it to be true. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Loss of reality!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: People know if they pay!]] They always want to raise a political theatre on this subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Refusal of reality is that!]] You just want a political theatre, you're not for an objective discussion. I invite you that, when the government submits the expert report, we will negotiate and deal with this issue in an objective manner and that we will come to a conclusion with which we will eliminate social hardships that may arise. - That's the second point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] The third point I would like to mention to you and which I have already mentioned in other speeches is: You have to answer what Minister Lacina has put into the room. Minister Lacina has justified the accident pension tax as follows: It was the view and objective... 1988; that is from the Protocol. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: When was that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Aha, 1988!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Lacina said: It was the view and objective to contribute to equal treatment through the taxation of both – he meant the disability pension and the accident pension. [[Abg. May. Plank: accident pension is not taxed...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Plank! When you talk to disabled people, you will always be asked the question: I have exactly the same disability as my neighbor, who is an accident pensioner, why don't I get anything? – You have not answered this question to this day. [[Abg. Oillinger: Of course!]] Why does the accident pensioner, who no longer has both arms, get something tax-free, which the other person, who also lacks both arms, does not get? [[Abg. Edellinger: They're all being thrown out like this!]] – Mr Ollinger, you can answer this question. [[Abg. Oillinger: I told you anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Silhavy! We must also answer this question to the many disabled people in Austria. [[Abg. Silhavy: But not all that take away!]] We do not want to be adjudicated among the disabled, but we want a fair, clear debate on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's why you're taking away all of what?]] You do not create the ground, and not the basis for a fair debate, with the contributions you have taken up here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I am in favour of talking to disabled people about this issue too. We will talk to them when we get the basics from the expert group. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Feurstein, we are talking to these people!]] We're ready to talk. But we do not need to set deadlines on this issue. [[Abg. Silhavy: At the ambulance fee – take away something from the people!]] The solution must be a fair solution for all disabled people in Austria, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10671	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10693	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr Feurstein! I would like to answer once again the question you claim that it has never been answered. The difference between a benefit from the statutory accident insurance and a benefit from the invalidity pension is that the statutory accident insurance regulates a worker's entitlement to compensation against his employer. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein:... Income replacement!]] – This is not an income replacement, Mr Feurstein, and you know it. Although this component is integrated, it primarily replaces the liability privilege of the entrepreneur. [[Abg. (in the direction of ÖVP) Your own request!]] That's the point! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Feurstein! You know exactly – and I am surprised that in the ÖVP the gentlemen of the Chamber of Commerce here are so calm – if you attack this liability privilege of the entrepreneur, which is paid for by the statutory accident insurance – and you do so with their regulations – then this fee is questionable to the employer's liability for damages. Then you have very quickly the situation that companies are, of course, referred to private law, so that each individual company has to pay the damage to the employee on the individual road, i.e. through private complaints. That's the American situation. That's what you want, but not us! We have an excellent system of legal accident insurance. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You have to stand by this because it has proved itself for years and decades. You didn't preexist us that you could do a little better, but on the contrary: They are resorting to constitutional irregularities! Ladies and gentlemen! But this is not what is depressing me today in this vote, nor is it an appeal to Your heart or your brain, which I would like to address to you, is simply that I know very well, no matter where the ladies and gentlemen can be found, that in each one of these government groups, whether FPÖ or ÖVP, people are convinced that this taxation of accident pensions is wrong. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have a free mandate just as we do. You also have this opportunity given by the Austrian people, and you are even obliged to behave here in accordance with your free mandate. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Don't worry!]] It is depressing that, if not so previously, you are teaching by the election results at the latest, you know that this regulation is wrong that you do not arrive at people. You, Mr Ofner, probably know more, because you know – I hope so – the basic textbooks of civil law. You have probably read your Koziol/Welser, and therefore you know that what you have decided will not last. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: studied and graduated!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Depressing me, we're discussing phantoms here. Well, you'll vote the way you've always voted. You don't care about your knowledge! Whether it's unconstitutional, whether it's unfair, whether it's hard or whether it's economically problematic, you don't care about it. You vote because Mr Khol leads you through Parliament at the nose ring. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Unheard of!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Take this back!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the point: You don't care! In such critical situations, political discipline has always won over everything else. Always in such critical situations, whether the single women were affected – and I can remember it very well – or other groups of people who were deprived of certain rights. You know that, too, Mr. Feurstein.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10848	Deputies! I ask you to bear in mind that not only the dignity of this House is preserved, but also no insults arise! Because of the expression that "someone leads the other at the nose ring", a political group in this House has already taken out a protest. I would therefore ask you to distance yourself from such expressions and from such a procedure, otherwise I would have to give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10866	I distance myself from this expression, and replaced it with: Mr. Khol. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I think it must be possible to make it clear here that this political discipline, these political constraints in a parliament which is obliged to exercise the free mandate, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The speaking time has expired!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It must be possible to discuss the fact that there is a free mandate and not a mandate attached to the discipline of the political groups. You should take that seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10975	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 387/A by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988, until 9. ==References== [[Abg. Edellinger: Where's Gaugg?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (standing next to his place) Where is Nuremberger, where is Kostelka?]] I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to have a sign of approval. [[The SPÖ welcome, because also Abg. Ing. Westenthaler stands.]] – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Riepl: Bravo Westenthaler! He's supported this!]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11056	I will now resume the negotiations on the IX Consultative Group. Mrs Mitterlehner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Mitterlehner. I put the clock at 4 minutes, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11080	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join briefly in the previous debate: Mr Oellinger! We from the economy were not necessarily enthusiastic about the regulation, but we also know what a particular discipline and a general scheme mean. That is why we don't need "breeders" as you said, but we have a line, and we go together, and now together we're checking whether there's a better solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have the right to follow my first sentences shortly before 3 p.m. In essence, I have said – and I would like to continue now – that the way has been speeded up internationally towards budget renewal, so that, in order not to endanger our competitiveness, we can do anything else than wait and do nothing in this respect. In this context, economic data have been addressed several times today, and they have deteriorated. Mr Gusenbauer! It is not right, however, that, as you said yesterday, investments will also move or even fall at a very low level. The Wifo Report 3/2001 mentions that many companies have made preferential investments in the last quarter because of the abolition of IFB in terms of equipment investment. This means that there is still a very good order in this area. This Wifo report also states that the order situation of the companies is excellent. This means that there are actually relatively good prospects and estimates that the international economic deterioration of America is not going through to us. This also means that the government has good prospects of implementing its consolidation programme accordingly. Mr Oellinger! You and other Members, such as Mrs Haidlmayr, have spoken against talking about a "dried out" labour market in this context. I believe that the use of this wording can be considered, because anyone who has no employment and anyone who is looking for a job will find this term somewhat problematic. On the other hand, it is simply the same that every second farm is looking for labour. Also, if you look at the labour market data from February, you will also be able to see that – that there have been 20 500 additional employees and on the other hand 17 000 unemployed were less reported. We therefore have a favourable development. They have also addressed EU statistics and our own today. However, it is not crucial to see what values are being done, but it is crucial that we still have a much better development throughout the period than the European Union as a whole. That's the point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because the Secretary of State is present: There is a much better development in tourism than in general. There is 6 percent more turnover in tourism, increases in the number of foreigners by 3.9%, from domestics by 1.8 percent. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – In my view, this means that the cooperation of the social partners, which the collective agreement provided for the extension of working time, already bears the first fruit. This also means that it should not actually be necessary to use the Minister's regulatory competence to extend the waiting period. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to what Mr Haider said. Name: In the final effect, it is not the EU statistics, it does not count other data, but at the end of the day counts what we get for the citizens. I think we can see that we have found a very employee- and business-oriented scheme in the area of worker protection. You can turn it and turn it, as you want, in the final effect employers and employees somewhere must find the compensation, a "win-win" solution and must not work against each other. That is exactly what we will do in the field of labour market services. I think that this is where we need to put an end to the constant expenditures in the budget. If you clean up the 15 billion schilling allowances for pension and health insurance claims, you will actually only remain 9 billion schilling, which are "justified" in this form. This results in 6 billion schilling reduction potential. But in order to be able to benefit from this, we still need federal liability, otherwise, if the GesmbH is actually created, there is no room for any corresponding reduction in contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! To be member-oriented, employee-oriented, citizen-oriented, i.e. to put social partners in the foreground again. This will certainly bring success to our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11157	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11179	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss the budget chapter of the economy, it is high time that we had a more intense speech about a sector just before, but – and I think that I will all agree – I will talk about tourism already under way. [[Abg. Böhacker: Krankjammerei!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But the number of nights goes up!]] If you look at the overall budget and consider how the leisure and tourism industry is taught, you can only find that the budget approach for the leisure and tourism industries is under-throwded. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you say about the increase in the number of nights?]] It is more than sad – and I can prove this to all those who have not read it – that the funding is unfortunately going back. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] [[Call of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It is also reported what seems to be going on in this year of additional payments – thank you, I would like to move in immediately; [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We are promoting through politics!]] Mrs. State Secretary! I am very happy about the situation in Kaprun! – but in the sum it doesn’t look good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] We will have to talk about so many things. Mr Schweitzer! You can stand there for another hour, and you won't understand anything from the leisure and tourism industry, but nothing at all! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you believe that the leisure and tourism industry is taking place on the golf course in Tatzmannsdorf, then you are wrong! That's far more, Mr Schweitzer. Sit down and learn about it! Learn about it, it's a lot of failure! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Böhacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A very important loss – a very essential point... [[The speaker turned to the president-in-chief Dr Fassleven.]] Am I now doing a double conference with some little teacher, or am I talking alone? What's now? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Do I do a double conference with a little teacher, or do I talk?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11313	Deputies! You know there are calls. They are themselves one that exploits this instrument. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] If the appearance of a double speech arises, I will certainly come back to it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11338	Thank you, Mr President. – Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, I use this instrument. Since Mr Schweitzer has now come to mind: Yes, Mr Schweitzer, I will try to perfect myself in the future, and I will make it even more extensive. So, let's go back to the real issues. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! I believe that the following is particularly important: We have a very strong division in Austria Area of advertising: The Austrian Advertising, the AMA, the Chamber of Commerce, the Austrian Business Agency, the Cultural Institutes, the Austrian Wine Marketing Serviceges.m.b.H. So, a total of seven to ten institutions, as far as I know, are advertising Austria with a volume of about 2 to 3 billion schilling. I think – and I hope that I have you as an ally – that there must be a merger, a alliance, because only the alliance, only the combined, targeted use of the means makes sense. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think anything about it at all – and I'm going to go into an intermediate call that I heard before – to get some economics sick, but I don't think anything about cheering him up, knowing we're having problems. [[Abg. Grabner: That it is not true!]] Mr Mitterlehner! I am very happy if you see the leisure and tourism industry positively – and I assume that You also do this because of your professional function – but I ask you – and I know you know better –: Look into the farms! It looks very different from reality! This is not a question of whether there is a turnover plus or a nocturnal plus, but it is a question of having thousands of businesses in Austria that need the most urgent help because they have been spending decades, I almost want to say, but for at least ten years, nothing more. They are not able to offer more! [[Abg. Böhacker: Yes, why?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Because the Socialists had no money for it!]] [[Abg. Zweytick: In part, the farms are no longer there!]] It is crucial that we help these companies so that they can have a chance in the market at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to the Secretary of State for a press release that she has made today. Mrs. State Secretary! You write about the program "LEADER+". As we have heard, 2.2 billion Schilling has been decided for Austria. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do S’ it wrong to read around!]] And what does the press release of the Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen say? – Imagine that! – The Secretary of State notes that the 2.2 billion Schillings are primarily intended for support in the agricultural sector. Mrs. State Secretary! Here I would like to give you one. Rating training: The fact is that in the past all these support programmes have been used only by agriculture. That was a mistake, however, especially this government, Mrs. State Secretary! That means nothing else under the line: Rural areas should be promoted, and in rural areas you must promote those who also have the greatest opportunities. Agriculture has so much support programmes that Mr Schwarzenberger may not be able to list them at all. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You're just too "intelligent" for me!]] We must therefore in all cases make use of resources for the tourism sector in this area. I would ask you to tell me what specific objectives you have to pursue in order to benefit from this "LEADER+" programme for the Austrian leisure and tourism industry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. State Secretary! If we fail to do so now, a lot will be lost for Austrian diversity and for the offer on the leisure and tourism market, and no one in this room, I think, can do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11463	Mrs Rossmann is next speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11484	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to Mr Schwemlein's comments and say: I am perfectly of his opinion that the splitting in advertising is currently more than intolerable. We are therefore also very committed to having discussions with all relevant organisations and to promoting the pooling of marketing activities. For example, we are in conversation with the AMA to finally integrate its tourism-related areas into our activities. Exactly from these considerations, I strongly drive forward the famous "Austrian House". We are also in this context in conversation with the AMA, but also with the Austrian Weinmarketingserviceges.m.b.H. and with many other organizations to involve them, so Austria presents itself prominently in this "Austrian House". On the operational key figures you already allow me to comment: I have been here as a Member of Parliament for four years, and a Social Democratic Finance Minister was sitting on the government bank. How many times have I highlighted the dramatic situation of the farms, and how many times have I just heard from your mouth and from your minister, I would be sick of tourism! It has never been noted how dramatic the equity situation in the enterprises is and how dramaticly poor the conditions – including the tax – are for the companies in Austria. I have to say: It is important to ensure that the enterprises can at last generate the necessary capital power on their own initiative and finally make profits. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimming: Then do something!]] It is due to the failure of the last two decades that we are in this situation. [[Abg. You're in government now!]] You will wonder if I say – even if you don't want to hear it –: I am very optimistic that we will be able to make a real tax relief for tourism after budget consolidation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The equity situation is still not satisfactory. This is, you know, related to the utilization, and that is why we are driving forward to enable annual utilizations, two-saison operations. But after the last winter and despite not always ideal snow conditions, we have a record winter season, whose extent surprises me. It turns out that billions of investments in snow-making plants have really been successful in recent years, because this has made us race-dependent, snow-independent in winter. This is a great success. I would also like to thank the lift companies which, together with the federal government and with the countries, have financed this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But also the booking location for Easter is excellent, as is the one for summer. Of course, a little worry is about the short-booking phase, the bookings are getting shorter and shorter. In this respect – and I say that here in the House – it is important to act in the light of the fact that the establishments are ready to make their rooms available for four and five days. If you want to call today and book a hotel room for Easter, you can hardly get a room for four days, but usually only for a week. The new holiday behaviour looks so that holiday periods are getting shorter and shorter, the trend is going toward short holidays. You usually get a room for a few days at the end, but such a reservation is only possible three, four days before your holiday. It is therefore also important to look in this direction from my side. To the tourism budget: It is somewhat confusing and not quite clear from the budget figures, but I can tell you: Most of them, as you know, are concentrated at the ÖHT; we have talked about this for the last time. It is a big throw that tourism promotions are finally concentrated in one place. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There not only tourism promotions are carried out, but there is also – and this is very important because of the dramatic indicators of the companies – a business coaching is offered there, because it is not done with promotion alone. The funding must be targeted, but above all it must be accompanied by other measures that will help firms to have a real chance and to make forward-looking investments in the future. In this context, it should be noted that the protection programme has been maintained almost entirely. This is important for Austria! We know how important it is for our mountains, for the mountain world, for hiking to be the shelters. I am also particularly pleased that the mountain rescue service continues to find itself in the budget with a million schillings, because especially the rescue of the mountains is an important factor. I always say, The security in our mountains, the awareness that if something happens, something should be saved, is simply an advantage that Austria has to offer. In other countries, this is far from the case. We have a coverage of – you can say – 100 percent in mountain rescue. [[Abg. Dr. One: With a million? Don't you fear that's a little bit?]] Last time we debated the destination management in detail, I think I do not need to carry it out here anymore. There has been a financing agreement since yesterday in the form of a letter, a commitment by the Minister of Finance, where it says that up to and including 2003 the financing of Austrian advertising is guaranteed. This is very nice because finally and for the first time the management of Austria's advertising can plan medium-term. You can't imagine what that is like when an organization of this size can only plan budgetaryly from one year to another! The fact that professional marketing has not yet been possible is obvious. Every small institution can already do it with multi-annual contracts, but it has not been possible to advertise Austria so far. It is there the Chamber of Commerce our partner. I hope she will also adapt this and give a guarantee until 2003, including. It is also beautiful – and we are unfortunately again in tragic events that happen again and again, in the event of natural disasters and other disasters – that we have been promised 33 million schilling so that we can act quickly in such cases. At the last tragic event, we really had to scratch every schilling together and then we had 12 million schilling with Ach and Krach. Now we have at our disposal 33 million schillings and can therefore also knock out market and not clear what is necessary in crisis situations. Another point that is important to me is the issue of the tourism labour market. Wherever I go, I hear the reputation for seasonal eggs. Some businesses say that it is soon easier to get guests as employees. This is, of course, a complex problem, and I am very critical of it. We train excellent employees in our tourism schools in Austria, but they are rather located in the management area. We know that they go abroad – thank God, the young people should have opportunities; they like to come back to Austria as executives – but the real problem lies in training the lower level; I call it the training for the "work at the guest", in the service and in the kitchens. There's a lack of it! The call for seasonal eggs cannot be the final end of wisdom! Where's the lid, when do you stop? I see there as a whole a great need for action, including the social partners, because I believe that the key lies with them. In fact, there are still persistent forces at the plant, which as little as possible do not want to change, of modernisation even in some areas. But I am very optimistic – there will be the big tourism forum in St. Johann next week – that the social partners will give themselves a back and think about how to make it possible for apprentices to access tourism as easily as possible. I mention it here in this House, because some may not know: If today a cafetier in a coffee shop or the operator of a small restaurant with a small menu – I am now talking about the small menu! – an apprentice wants to train, then this coffee house or this small restaurant may not even train an apprentice in the service because the menu is too small. – Please, there must be no more! [[Abg. Forbidden: Change the...!]] You know that we need the social partners to do this, and that is why I stress: Here I see a lot of opportunities! – For my idea of module teaching, I have already had competitors in the Chamber of Commerce Salzburg. I also have colleagues in the hotel industry department who have managed to make it possible for the "Etagen-Fachkraft" with a two-year teaching. What is possible there must also be possible in the area of gastronomy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: But we still need a few seasonal eggs!]] I think that would solve a certain young people's problem with a blow. You finally give young people opportunities in this profession. We need – and this is also very important to me – Austrian identity among the skilled workers, the workers in dealing with the guest. It can't always be the call for seasonal eggs! Otherwise, our good Austrian product, namely the spokenwortly Austrian hospitality, will be broken in the medium term. All of us do not want to do this, so I would ask you from this point of view to take action in this area within the framework of the social partnership. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Finally, of course, I would like to thank the staff, the senior officials in our house, who are still here, for their excellent work. Just one sentence to Mrs Haidlmayr, who is no longer present. [[Abg. What about LEADER?]] To her criticism that the quota for the disabled had not been exhausted, I can only say that it was even exploited more than twice. Maybe you can do this to her! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: What are you doing with LEADER? What are you doing with LEADER?]] I am looking forward to the tourism report, which we – this is also a new form of dealing – will, of course, present here in the House in a timely manner; I hope, before the summer break and not only a year and a half later, as it has been before, what I would like to say to the old government is critical. You will receive this report in good time. There will be new aspects in it which I have worked out together with you, and I am looking forward to a discussion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11689	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11710	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed this debate carefully on the budget chapter "Economics and Work", one is actually shocked at what means you use red and green to insure, polarize, try to divide people. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The Wrong Set in the Wrong Chapter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Class fight is out! Mrs Mertel, class struggle is out! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It makes no sense to try to divide employers' side and employees' side. Both depend on each other. Both have to work and want to work together and also want to do something for our economy. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Therefore, please note that economic policy is more than class struggle, that it needs more to be felt than certain areas of illness, but rather we have to drive our economy forward with targeted activities. It doesn't make sense for you to spell out old Marxist hats from the past, because these things, ladies and gentlemen, have already proved to be the wrong way. [[Abg. Binder: Did you learn this externally?]] We do not meet at this level, and that is because they are obsolete and because they are no longer interested in anyone at all. You should finally realize that you have failed with this! They brought the state to the edge of the ruin. You have brought your own party bank to the edge of the bankruptcy – you can probably only pave it up with snoring letters to your members – and as soon as you act in the economy, you have proved that you are a danger to the employees in Austria. [[Abg. Binder: Did you copy the sentences from the Burger-Fibel?]] I can only remind you of the "consumer" you've led into the pleite: You have left countless creditors, and you have driven hundreds and thousands of people into unemployment, which is even worse. That was your responsibility, and you have not yet apologised for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have also left a battlefield in the area of social policy. You have thus committed a betrayal of youth, because you have pursued your debt policy on your back, on the back of the youth, and have not made sure that the course has been put in the right direction in good time. Their concepts have no future. On the other hand, we stand for renovation. We stand for the zero deficit. We stand for the future of young people in our country, and we stand for innovation, ordoliberalism and for social quality instead of foresight. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That we are on the right track proves not only the statements of the government parties, but also the figures and statistics. We have rising employment rates in Austria, a falling unemployment rate and an excellent economic situation. In this sense, this federal government will also make every effort to continue this path so that we can make a secure social system available to our young people in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11789	As the next speaker, Mr Bauer, I should like to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11811	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say to the pleas mentioned by my previous speaker: Such pleas are always unpleasant! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: When they're so close, they're particularly hurting!]] But, unfortunately, every year there are many insolvency cases, not just those quoted here. This must also be said! Secondly, I should like to express my pleasure at the fact that we are now celebrating the renaissance of the social partners. Today, the importance of the social partners has been repeatedly stressed. They are so grateful that they found a good solution in the labour market yesterday – specifically in the field of worker protection and also in other areas of the labour market – discussions. [[Abg. Legal protection of workers!]] I am very glad that the social partners are suddenly being discovered, because they have always done a lot for people in this Republic! This social partnership has been repeatedly put down by the liberals as a kind of side-government, as a government outside Parliament and as a huge danger to Parliament, which should best be smashed. – Today they are praised, today they are happy to have them! But I'm still going on: This social partnership, which has proved successful in Austria, should be placed at a European level. That would be much more important. An internationalised economy also requires internationalised opponents, so one should try to anchor social partners at European level in order to make a common economic policy. I am convinced that this would also help in other areas, such as accident pension taxation, where it was really wonderful to see that discussions are being held only because one does not want to realize that a claim for compensation is something other than an income! If you don't have these accesses, you should stop to get these accesses. It is a difference whether you treat a payment as a compensation or as an income component, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is the essential difference! In addition, at that time the claim for compensation was reduced by 30 percent, in order not to discuss such a thing at all. Then, at that stage, in which Federal Minister Lacina was responsible for this, the accident pensions should be raised, which did not happen, so that taxation was immediately withdrawn. That is the essential thing in this matter! You can already talk about compensation. But such a compensation system did not work at the time, so it was withdrawn, and the accident pensions were generally not taxed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is actually about the same thing in many discussions! This is also seen in the example of additional wage costs. I have published a very good article about it, as I believe – you should read it! – which deals with what additional wage costs actually mean. On the other hand, additional labour costs also mean financing social concerns. If I now reduce on one side, that means that I have to think about whether I want to reduce the claims on the side of the claims as well. But if I don't want to, I have to make a balance, namely that another basis of assessment is used. That is the decisive! We are also of the opinion that labour force in Austria is too expensive as a result of high additional labour costs. And we also believe that it is necessary to reduce additional wage costs. But we also need to know that this reduction must not result in a reduction in social benefits. [[Abg. Zweytick: Don't do that either!]] That is why we need a different basis of assessment. [[Abg. Zweytick: You have a completely different approach!]] But now to what I would like to give to the Federal Minister. – Minister of State! I believe that in all the speeches it has been shown that there is hardly any recognizable economic and technology policy. This is also seen in the number of points being dealt with, which in principle does not mean anything, but among these 20 points that have been dealt with in one year are more resolutions and other routine cases. But to all that would be important, such as competition law or the trade regulations, only announcements were made and no longer, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would particularly like to say something about energy policy, which I have already said: We really have the chance to reach an Austrian solution at the very last moment. I think we should all work on this, because the hydropower is an asset that will be very high in the future. We are perhaps selling this asset to a foreign partner, always asking: Why do you need a foreign partner, ladies and gentlemen, if we are strong enough alone? – If we take our hydropower alone, we are the third largest producer of electricity, and if we still bring in the activities of the country companies, then we are the second largest producer in Europe. That means that we are actually strong enough to seek a purely Austrian solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11894	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e11916	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget actually has historical dimensions. [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] For the first time in 30 years, this new federal government has been able to present a budget without new debts. And that's what we're proud of! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] After a year, after just a year of the government bowl, we can enjoy impressive economic figures together. They have heard them, the Minister of State has made an impressive reference to them. This will not change, even if the opposition tries to make the development in Austria sick. Mr Edlinger called for reflection yesterday in the light of the fasting period. I can tell you: After fasting comes Easter, after the darkness comes the light of the morning, ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you: Even unbelievers will not hide this light. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All 2002 forecasts show that Austria's key figures will stabilise at a high level. The people in Austria trust this federal government. Take as proof that 24 000 young entrepreneurs have decided to invest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] It only invests someone who has confidence in the future. That is why this budget consolidation is also carried by the economy and is particularly welcomed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If the goal of full employment was still the main concern of past governments, we are now seeing a trend change on the labour market. Entrepreneurs find no more employees, half of the vacancies cannot be replaced by suitable persons in a quarter of the year. There is a particular lack of skilled workers. Against this background, apprenticeship training in the establishments is gaining a special importance. We have worked together to create appropriate framework conditions and motivate businesses to train in the future. The companies have understood this message. A survey conducted by the Styrian Economics Association revealed that 13 percent of the Styrian companies are willing to train apprentices, although they have not yet done so. What's the opposition doing? – It not only carries the political debate on the street, but also does not hesitate to abuse students of polytechnic schools and to insure them by means of political false reports. [[Abg. Amon: Unheard!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have here a prospectus of the young generation of the SPÖ. [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible!]] I quote literally: What the government has already decided and planned is a unique reduction in young people's rights for Austria. [[Abg. Amon, whoa!]] The apprentices are made cheap assistants. You have to pay for vocational schooling yourself. No provision brings benefits to apprentices, the successful dual training system is totally destroyed. And that's how it goes. Now comes the tip: There is a call for the young generation of the SPÖ, which is: I'm beating back! - with the box glove. I'm going back: That's the SPÖ's call! [[Abg. Steibl: What is this language?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I deeply regret this procedure, Mr President. They not only break the mood in the apprenticeship market, but also damage the Austrian economic location with such actions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The Republic will burn, they said!]] We must take the shackles of the labour market – once said a keyword. I call on the Federal Minister to further develop the AMS into a competent partner of the economy, to encourage the AMS to launch projects that will consider future economic development in order to have workers available to the economy in sufficient numbers. The search for personnel is a topic in this country, ladies and gentlemen. The issue of foreign employment must therefore also be discussed honestly, and this issue must be dealt with without any doubt. We are pleased about the success of the Federal Chancellor, whom he was able to achieve in Stockholm, by reaching a 7-year transitional period for free access to the labour market, thus meeting the legitimate concerns – I admit – mainly by employee representatives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we also wish for a flexible model, which is particularly represented by Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein, in order to secure our economy the workers it needs to be able to succeed in the future. [[Abg. Protest: Did you listen to Mrs. State Secretary?]] - Yeah, I think so. To achieve a flexible model that takes account of all the needs can not be so difficult, Mr President, if we make an effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is a historic budget because it opens up many opportunities: new opportunities for more employment in a strong economy, new opportunities for our studying youth in high-performance educational institutions, new opportunities for social weakness through a secure pension and health system and new opportunities for our children, because we relieve them of interest from the past and thus provide them with room for movement for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12084	The next speaker was Mr Kiermaier. The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12105	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Drinkl, you talked about the resurrection. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The light was the speech, not of the resurrection!]] It's just one of them raised up again, and that was a very good person. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Jesus Christ was. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who was that?]] It is in this government that we are constantly dealing with zero, which is the stated objective. The "Wundermann" in the Himmelpfortgasse, which certainly does not suffer from inferiority complexes, is becoming more and more enchanted. If you hear the evaluations made by the European Commission from Brussels, you have to say that it is already quite broken. There it is said that this budget is not a miracle. By the way, we knew that ourselves, but it is a testimony that we are not spreading horror messages, but that this assessment is well founded and is also confirmed by foreign countries. [[Abg. Neudeck: Founded or founded?]] We have heard the "great" achievements of this budget today: Sale of the family silver, elimination, tax increases, reductions – all of these are vocabularys that are going on here and there. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! From Mr Bundeskanzler to the Members of this House, you really do sometimes suffer from memory wounds. You keep talking about indebtedness, you don't stop it, but forget that They have included all government documents over the last thirteen years. Did you not know what you decided here, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Colleague! We didn't vote in favour! That's not true!]] For example, in the field of agriculture: Mr Schwarzenberger always had the money right, he could never get enough of it, and he always took it. So why do you, for example, wake up on the policy made by then Minister of Finance Edlinger? - That's not consistent. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He gave us too little!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He himself did not know how much debt he has!]] The following is also interesting: If you judge a budget, it is very similar to a balance sheet draw. In a balance sheet, there is a payroll and an investment capital. Once you explore the assets of this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, then you have to admit that this asset is Europe's lonely class. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's called orbital power!]] What we have to offer to infrastructure, you will hardly find it anywhere so quickly. What have you done, ladies and gentlemen? What's the fearsome thing about this? – People’s incomes have been radically reduced. The wage tax was increased by 18 percent in two years. Mr Edlinger said it very clearly: 40 p.a. per day the citizen escapes through this policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! 40 S you can't spend on small and medium-sized enterprises, and that definitely applies to us. It is very often based on old sayings in life, for example: "Living and keeping alive" or "A cow that you want to milk, you have to feed first." These are, I believe, principles which you seem to have not taken into account. One-time success, Saldeneuphoria: These are the words that concern this government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. To Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, even though she's still talking so fast, you can say: For spoken sheet metal, no gold, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: But that was not very charming!]] Her Lord's and Master's chastisement is certainly yours, who already lets you judge that your friends should be grown up as soon as possible. I don't think she'll be "thank you, Jörg!" Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Is it perhaps weak when Haider says that if the government continues to do so, the FPÖ is no longer his party, and if the Deputy Clubobmann Gaugg joins this statement in full content or when Haider sees a nonsense in the advertising campaigns? Before the Vice-Chancellor dies again and again, she should be making order in her own house from the government bank. But that's probably a number too big for her – towards Jörg Haider. Finally, a few words to Mr. Grasser: His credibility, ladies and gentlemen of the government, has not been given for so long for me and for many others, as long as he has not acted in the case of Franz Häusler. [[Abg. Böhacker: If he's already done it for a long time, he's done it for a long time!]] If he believes he can hide behind the data protection, he will be deceived. Ladies and gentlemen! We reject this budget because it does not allow for an economic policy and therefore does not serve the economy of this country and thus the citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12273	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mr Tancsits. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I ask you, honourable Member: Start playing the claim to be corrected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12297	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiermaier said that the wage tax was increased by 18 percent. - That's not right. It is true that the wage tax has not been increased over the last two years, but the wage tax over the total tax rates has become 1st. In January 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12331	As the next speaker, Mr Staffaneller is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12360	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I do not want to address insults to our wife, Vice-Chancellor, which is not my style. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This also applies to insults to our Federal Minister Herbert Haupt, who has been subordinated by ex-Minister Prammer, that he and the officials do not recognize himself in gender mainstreaming. [[Abg. Achatz: Who talked about sheet metal?]] I don't want to go into that either. Please make yourself a rhyme on it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Achatz: Who's talking sheet metal now?]] I would like to talk briefly about work and employment. It has for a long time not been as pleasing to talk about this subject as it was in 2001. I have experienced different things in recent decades. As mentioned above, developments in the labour market are likely to be such that full employment can be achieved in 2002 and 2003. Of course, the economic situation in this country in particular means that the number of unemployed at the end of February, i.e. in a winter month, was 17 000 lower than in the comparison month of the previous year. Of course, the positive trend in the economy is crucial for this. However, this also shows that the economy, where 24 000 new businesses have been established last year, has confidence in this country, that one wants to invest and risk, and that this country and its employees have the opportunity to be more active. I would also like to briefly address the shortage of skilled workers mentioned here. There is a shortage of skilled workers, but I believe that employment permits should only be granted where it is absolutely necessary. However, it cannot be as in recent years that the granting of employment permits is not being done properly. I mention here, for example, only the development in the Vienna region. In the Vienna area, 14 512 foreigners were unemployed in February 2000 and 16 325 in February 2001. This is an increase of 12.5 percent. The number of unemployed nationals decreased by 11.2 percent compared to the previous year or by 6 241. In this respect, a number of things have happened in recent years, and the employment permits have not been issued in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the federal territory, and that is certainly not the case. I agree with the opinion of the Secretary of State. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Mr President. This is not necessarily the case with the approval of seasonal kidneys. [[Abg. Forbidden: Who forgives them?]] - Who forgave her? – I hope that the award will change with the current Federal Minister. I think so. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, an average of 27 429 people were already less unemployed than in 1999. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, this also means that 27 429 persons claimed less unemployment or emergency aid because they could provide their own livelihood. At the same time, around 25,840 unemployed persons were more employed than a year earlier. So we are really on our way to full employment, and in many regions this has already been achieved, as it has already been mentioned. A lot has been said about labour market services today. Mr President, I would like to take a short look at that. I have looked at the annual programmes of the major regional offices of the labour market service and also of the Federal Social Offices, and I have only found positive results in the target programmes, in terms of a new way of addressing the needs of the economy more strongly, that we have clearly formulated the objectives, that we want to pursue the objectives, and that, among other things, we want to avoid long-term unemployment from the outset and do not allow long-term unemployment to continue as it has been in recent years. The vocational rehabilitation of unemployed people with disabilities should be strengthened – this is what is stated in the programmes. Labour market opportunities for older people are to be increased, labour market opportunities for women should be increased, transparency on the labour market should be increased, and the support of employment in the information and communication sector through training measures is also an objective that is, of course, very important and necessary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The integration of the disabled is also an issue. Mrs Haidlmayr – she is still present – said that 33,000 disabled people are unemployed. Yeah, that's right, they're right. However, more than 40 000 disabled persons were unemployed in the previous year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] From 1989 to 1999, the number of unemployed people rose from 18 000 to over 40 000. Have you ever spoken about this? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Did you ever criticize that? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Mrs. Haidlmayr must have reported!]] I should like to remind you that within a year the number of unemployed people has been reduced by 7 000. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: I also made a request!]] I think you could say a word of praise. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I hope that you have studied the programmes and the objectives of the Federal Social Offices, then you have made sure that the Federal Social Offices have prepared appropriate programmes and that they want to prevent unemployment among young people by caring for disabled people in compulsory schools and bringing the disabled to a training place. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Mrs. Vice chancellor wants to disband her!]] This is politics as we understand it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mrs Prammer mentioned that Mr Bundesminister had no idea what gender mainstreaming is. That's a premise special. It has also probably not looked at the programmes and wants to cover the shortcomings that the predecessors have made in recent years. That's not how it's done! We have programs. We have targets. We also work after Gender Mainstreaming. Both the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour and the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations have taken appropriate measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12539	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12561	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! My previous speaker spoke very plausibly about the economy and somehow suggested that it would be the merit of this federal government that the economy in Austria flourishes so well. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Not from Gusenbauer!]] [[Abg. Haller: Certainly not the merit of the opposition!]] I believe that he is not right in fact, although, of course, we are also pleased that the economy is very good and also facilitates politics and the economy in Austria. [[Abg. Achatz: The only honest person at the opposition!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You won't be able to get sick either!]] - No, I won't. I would even like to stress, Mr President, that the introduction of the single European currency has very well supported this process of European economy and, of course, has helped the euro's positioning in comparison to the yen and the dollar to generate an economy. However, I would like to say that if this Federal Government continues its current policy of reducing economic growth through public budget expenditure and increasing inflation, it will come back very quickly to a stagnation in Austria that the state can occur – as evidenced by the latest Wifo forecasts, which have been dramatically revised down in March – that it is likely to be possible to reduce economic growth further in June and a third in autumn as well as in 1993. If this happens and if inflation does not decline dramatically, then it will automatically result in a re-indebtedness in Austria, then you can still talk about a zero deficit as this is no longer possible. However, I would like to say very briefly in my remarks on technology policy and innovation policy in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Federal Minister! You have a very good, touchy and dedicated team of employees in this section. Unfortunately, the disintegrating of the activities in this segment on three Ministries has again lost military power. We have the impression that since you can't use the big cake, you have reduced your interest in this segment. We believe that it is necessary that something be done in this segment. Mr Stummvoll has referred to this today. There are too few innovative careers. There is too little innovative staff. In the market it is very tight, very scarce. It is difficult to find IT employees who have the necessary qualifications. It is precisely from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs that it is necessary to develop cross-sectional activities. We believe that, especially in the ministry in which the large share of innovation policy is currently taking place, not everything is the way it is desired. I just remember the award of UMTS licenses a few months ago. It is not so much about the fact that prices have been very bad when auctioning, but about the fact that one has taken the money and at the moment does not allow operators to become operational. They have spent billions of money and are not allowed to start working now. This is an economic damage to the Republic. 50 billion schilling of investment volumes cannot be generated because political decision-making in this Federal Government is not currently running optimally. I therefore believe that it is urgently necessary that not only social and economic policies in general, but also infrastructure, innovation, education and research are more connected, that the Federal Government is trying to generate more critical mass together so that the benefits for people in this country can be generated at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12638	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12659	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Federal Minister Bartenstein confirmed impressively: The new government with Federal Chancellor Schüssel and the economy create work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Stockholm Summit also focused on the economy and the family. This also confirms reports in both national and international media. That's why I'm wondering: What is the reason why the SPÖ does not know what was advised by the EU Heads of State or Government in Stockholm? Is it perhaps the conceptlessness of the SPÖ in relation to child care, or is it an internal return of the SPÖ or a displacement tactic? [[Abg. Prince: Dear Second!]] It was discussed and talked about at the "Baby Summit". I believe that the Austrian path towards child care and the reconciliation of work and family life is a very important step in reducing the disadvantages of women on the labour market and finally allowing them freedom of choice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now you can confirm that with the nick. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't know what I said, why Mrs. Binder nodds!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mertel is still unclear! Mertel's still inconspicuous!]] This is a very small but very important step, especially as Austria is currently third in terms of labour market data, that is, far ahead. Women now employ 45 percent of all employees throughout Austria, and they create 40 percent of the work volume. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The paid volume of work!]] These figures come from a worker chamber representative or expert. Yesterday you highly praised experts, so they will surely vote in your eyes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is necessary for a further increase in the number of women's work to be continued, and we are here – the harmonisation of work and family, for example with an evaluation of re-entry aid, with further measures for the flexibility of working hours and the place of work – we do not mean work on call – and also with an extension of the business agreement skills for better compatibility. Business promotion and family support are seen as an important factor in future security, are more important in the future than ever, and are in no way contrary to economic efficiency and competitiveness. Even the famous gender mainstreaming will not be able to replace this important area. In this context, the next important issue is: Wage inequality. Wage is a measure of social status. The key concern of the EIA is therefore to strengthen the economic independence of women. We want to achieve what could not be achieved for SPÖs with State Secretarys, Women's Ministers and Social Ministers, with a set of policies within the next ten years. 30 years of SPÖ government has failed to do so. What do we want? – Reduce the income gap between women and men by a third, and there was also a common discussion in this respect. There is also a common agreement, not only with industry but with the whole economy. I would like to address another important point, namely the federal government's founding offensive. There are already measures there. I just want to refer to the Styrian Founder's Center. We know that further measures need to be taken, and that is what we are doing. Summary: This new government creates qualified women's jobs, strives to harmonise work and family life, strives to bring women into new occupations and research projects. Aim of equal pay for equivalent work with a budget for full employment, with higher expenditure on family, research and education. We're on the right path!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12755	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12776	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Today, the statement that the labour market has dried up has already been made of many times. Mr Drinkl has worked very intensively on apprenticeship training and has been confirmed by a survey that companies want to train apprentices again. They said it right: they want to train apprentices again. But why is the labour market so dried up? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Because the government is making such a good economic policy!]] – Because in the last five years, entrepreneurs have refused to train apprentices in order to bring the social democracy still in the government to bear the costs of doing so. That's why we don't have skilled workers today. That is exactly what it is, Mr. Drinkl. – The training costs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: What cost? What costs?]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You're mistakenly informed!]] – Unfortunately, I don't have much time. I listened very carefully when Mr. Schender said that we had to move our economy forward with targeted activities. – Unfortunately, he is not here now, but he has failed to tell us what activities this should take place. I can name him a few such targeted activities that have led to a decline in mass income and that we are dealing with the highest tax rate. The economic forecasts published today unfortunately confirm that they are going downwards. What surprises me, however, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that the Institute of Economic Research has ever dared to announce these rather bad figures. If you read carefully today's edition of the "Kurier", you will find an article in which Mr. Finanzminister Karl-Heinz Grasser threatens Mr Helmut Kramer with the words: If he repeatedly releases such non-governmental "lobhudelia", he will block his Wifo. – This is the form of "new governance". If someone doesn't say what's right, then he's threatened, ladies and gentlemen! That's how your "new government" looks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I miss out on budget approaches that deal with small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, with economic development in rural areas, they are very small. I also miss out on budget approaches that deal with businesses in border regions affected by an upcoming EU enlargement. These enterprises must be made fit to grow the new situation, the new challenges. The largest investor in Austria – that's probably what everyone here will have to admit – is the municipalities. The municipalities were taken to the kandare by the financial compensation package. We must no longer be indebted, we are forced to make a balanced budget. This means, however, that all that we cannot invest in the communities will also lack the small-structured, medium-sized economy in rural areas. In addition, the destruction of rural structures is very targeted. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to address this issue more closely. I hope, however, that we will be very soon dealing with this issue and updating it in this House. Finally, I must say, Minister of State: A decision by the Administrative Court over the last few days has made me very restless. The Constitutional Court has decided in respect of the drink tax that it cannot be repaid. The Administrative Court now says: We agree with this legal opinion, but we ask the ECJ. – So there is still total uncertainty for the communities whether they have to repay 22 billion schillings or not. Where are the reserves in the budget? – At the time when the new drinking tax was negotiated, it was promised that there should be repayments, then that could not happen to the municipalities. I don't find any skilling for that in the budget. If the communities are burdened with this, this is the safe economic environment for our communities and for our rural area.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12875	The next speaker was Mrs Haller. Your speaking time is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12896	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian economy is booming, and our economic data are excellent. We have heard this a few times today, but I think you should always repeat it and keep in mind. We are moving towards full employment in Austria, and in some areas we are very close to it. There have never been so many people in Austria in employment. This means that the unemployment rate is also going down permanently and safely. I consider it particularly positive that more and more women have recently been able to get into employment, namely unemployed women, and these in a part-time job they want. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! However, we know – in which we certainly agree – that there are already shortcomings, in the area of supply of qualified part-time jobs. I know it is not the policy that can create these jobs, but it must be in the interest of both the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs to be able to meet the big concerns of Austrian women, namely family and work, and to be more concerned by politics and to send incentives and impulses in this direction to the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another step in this direction – which is already contained in the Government Convention – is the following: In the future – thank God, I say – we want to promote more operational kindergartens. I would say that this is a decades-long freedom of movement which has been repeatedly underpinned by requests from us. Also, it must not only be the family ministry that sets impulses, but also, as I believe, the economy is very well advised to support women who will be needed in the future in an ever-increasing number in the economy in the direction that the compatibility of work and family will be made possible. We will – thank God – have the child care allowance in Austria in the foreseeable future, and women with children will benefit from this childcare allowance, with a commitment limit that will, in turn, make it more possible for them to go into the profession if they want. This will promote the better compatibility of work and family for women. We go, of course, and thank God, a different way than the SPÖ, which is currently launching a campaign in an interest programme, unless I am mistaken in which one calculates, with 1 billion schilling one could create such and so many kindergartens. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] It does so in view of the partial oversupply that already exists. It also calculates that it could create 110 jobs. I'll do it differently now. We were always of the opinion, Mr Minister, both the ÖVP and the liberals, that after parental care day mothers are the second best kind of childcare. We also have a concern for the liberals, and one should encourage day mothers in the direction that one can not only employ them in associations as it is currently happening, but also that one should make it possible for them to exercise this profession on their own. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This would be quite possible, but is not yet possible as an independent profession with a professional image. It would simply be possible by a small change in the law, which could be linked to the current possibility of the self-employed teachers. I believe that this would benefit both in the area of better reconciliation of work and family life as well as in the economy, but also in the Minister of Finance, because it would create more official employment opportunities in the area of childcare. In particular, it would be possible for women to pursue a profession at home in their own household, and also to achieve this optimal compatibility for them. I think, Minister of State, that is where we are called as government parties. We have recently embarked on very large reforms. We should also address these small areas in the near future; we must not forget these too.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e12979	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Kaipel to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13001	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Drinkl spoke of a zero deficit in connection with the 2002 federal estimate. That's just wrong. The 2002 Federal estimates do not provide a zero deficit. Rather, with this 2002 estimate, the debt level is increased by 31 million schilling daily. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in his declaration of government on 9 October. It was carried out on 1 February 2000: "Rerule, that means: Education as a raw material of the 21st century. ==References====External links== A state that invests in education, in 'brain-power', secures the life and work opportunities of people and strengthens the economy." [[Demonstrative applause by Amon and Mag. Tancsits.]] - Wait, I'll keep quoting! "We will therefore devote ourselves to ensuring the quality and further development of education opportunities." Ladies and gentlemen from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European You know exactly as well as we do today that there's nothing inside where " Whether" is on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] On the one hand are the beautiful words of the Chancellor, on the other Side is reality, it is concrete action that looks completely different. You have promised to invest in education when you take office, but actually it is shortened across all fields of education. [[Call the ÖVP:We made!]] This 2002 budget continues to reduce education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] We have had education expenditure of 4 percent of GDP in 1999 – still under the SPÖ government – and in 2002 the figure is 11 percent less. [[Abg. Amon: These are the wrong numbers! Look at the absolute numbers!]] A functioning, forward-looking education system needs, of course, not only education but also correspondingly intact school, university, technical school buildings. [[Abg. Amon: Look at the absolute numbers!]] In this area too, the government is too little. To sum up, this government programme means a massive loss of quality in school and university. Equal opportunities and the right to education, especially in a modern infrastructure, remain on track. If you, ladies and gentlemen, are really concerned about the economic future of Austria, the opportunities of our children and young people, then you will not be able to pass a quality offensive – a quality offensive through optimal use and creation of the necessary school space resources, laboratories, workshops and all areas related to education, but I would also like to include the safeguarding of the locations of small schools in rural areas. But not only does education need investment, but it also requires employment in construction. The measures taken to sell the properties of the federal government to the BIG will make the situation even worse, as the importance of the federal government as an investor will decline. Gross investment in 2002 will be about 40 percent below that in 2001, taking into account the fact that in 2001 the three-year offensive programme gave these areas a higher profile. Moreover, taking into account that infrastructure costs for the Austrian Federal Railways are also reduced in Chapter 65, it is no longer understandable when this government speaks of infrastructure as a priority in the 2002 estimate. Economic research tells us that economic growth remains behind general economic development. Ladies and gentlemen! That is no wonder in this political programme. I believe that this programme is directly provoking this development. I should therefore like to address a question to the Minister for Labour: Minister of Labour! How do you want to reduce unemployment in this programme – if that is a matter for you at all –? Finally, a comment on your answers, Minister of State: What are we supposed to think if you answer the question of how high the maintenance and new construction measures for schools and universities are being taught, this is what the BIG wears? With this in mind, do you want to prevent access to and control from becoming difficult or impossible for Parliament as well? Or do you want to know these areas outside the budget as your personal playground? In any event, I believe that this answer is an affront, a disdain of Parliament. I do not want to take the Vienna elections so often, but I think that exactly this was your behavior, this cold and this arrogance was a very essential reason for election results such as those of Sunday. I have only one wish to you, Mr Federal Minister, and to this Federal Government: Keep Please, as you are!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13092	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13113	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No more debt. – I believe that is the most important statement on the 2002 budget, which should be noted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unfortunately, I would say that we would never have done this with the Social Democrats. It has only been possible with the new coalition government to stop increasing the debt. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you say, Mr Kaipel, that the debt is rising every day, I can tell you: You're right. However, they only rise because of the high interest rates we pay for the huge government debt which unfortunately has arisen in recent years and for which we pay 107 billion schilling on interest in the year. You just need to figure out what this is every day, and then you know why the debt is still rising, of course. You can't clean this up from today to tomorrow, which you've accumulated in years of debt. Now, of course, I always hear – dear Kiermaier Günter Kiermaier, you said so too – the ÖVP was there. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Sure!]] That is also true, dear friend, but we have been talking for years about the need for a different set of priorities, that we must reverse the fact that we have to agree to some of the other things that we have to make corrections. But it has not been possible. It was not possible to make corrections. I myself did in 1993 – that's eight years ago! – already talked about some of the changes that are necessary if we do not want to keep on burdening the future. – Unfortunately, nothing happened. Some of the things that have now been decided were already in my demand program. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: That's right!]] That's it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever I hear – Mr Gaßner said that – the economy has not taken up apprentices in recent years because it wanted the state to pay the apprentices, I ask you: [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of SPÖ) Something like this!]] Where do you have this wisdom? [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Not the teaching, the training!]] What we asked was: The vocational school should be paid because it is paid for every youth, only for the apprentice. That's what we asked. That's where you need to report more precisely! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I also tell you who demanded that the apprentices be paid by the state: These were the public enterprises, and they knew what an apprentice costs. The economy has always accused you of an apprentice being a business, and every day you can earn great money from an apprentice. For these apprentices who have worked in public enterprises, 15 000 S per month, the public enterprises have demanded this – and not the economy itself. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Jarolim and the Euroteam!]] Mr Gaßner! Of course, consideration can be given to apprentices. In the metal industry, an apprentice – I belong to this industry, so I know what I'm talking about – in Germany last year earns two thirds of what an apprentice in Austria deserves. You can't say that the apprentices in Austria are bad! But we are in the competition, we have to prove ourselves in competition, in contrast to some previous economic forms, when we have been constantly paying for losses. It's not that simple. You certainly have to think about it, because once an apprentice in the last year of teaching, with reference to the time of presence in the company, costs more than a finished companion, then something is no longer true. And that's how it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we had made some corrections earlier, at the time when I first identified these inequalities, we would have saved ourselves a lot of money, which we must unfortunately do today, and would have saved ourselves some of today's correction, which certainly hurts. But these corrections have become necessary because of your economy. I have to tell you one thing – and I am speaking to Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger; he does not listen... [[Abg. Edlinger: (ending his conversation with Members of Parliament) Leo, please, I always listen to you!]] Please, dear friend, let me tell you something: What didn't fit me – and perhaps not others – was when you replied to a request: Yes, it is true that we are currently paying 107 billion interest, and it will be around 120 billion in 2003. – Read in a protocol; it was a request. That's what I said: It can't be that we just take note of this, but we have something to do with it and not to purchase a higher government debt every year, which then leads to high interest rates, which still impose additional burdens on us today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know that my speaking time is unfortunately limited, so I conclude. We are a small country and therefore need it to be economical and reasonable that we set the priorities where we need them, especially in export. Ladies and gentlemen! As can be seen today from the APA and as we also note from the Export – Import development: We have everything to do to further increase exports, because that is what will help the entire economy and thus the entire population. – I hope with the new laws, with the necessary corrections, we are on the best way there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13274	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13295	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Contributions to unemployment insurance have tripled over the last 20 years – from 2% in 1980 to 6 percent in 2000 – and in absolute terms more than offset by good economic growth; they currently account for around 50 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! We are looking forward to a good economy today. We have been looking forward to the lowest unemployment rate for a long time. But the economy cannot be pleased at the moment because it still has to repay what has been left to budget deficits in recent years. The economy contributes to the recovery by means of many measures, such as the removal of investment grants, such as the reduction in loss payments, but it also contributes greatly to the fact that the fund surpluses in the various funds are added to the budget and are not repaid to the entrepreneurs who make up these surpluses from employers' and employees' contributions. Entrepreneurs, however, are happy to contribute to this budget reorganisation because they know that this is an important contribution to site security and create scope in the budget for more services in research and development, for more services in education, and finally for the additional wage reduction provided for in the government programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I am returning to unemployment insurance, which I mentioned at the outset. It is not at all clear that despite the lowest level of unemployment, the opposition in particular is already thinking about how we want to spend the surpluses we currently have in this unemployment insurance and in other funds. That's what it says: We want more for labour market qualification – although the AMS itself already pays 7 billion schilling for labour market qualification – we want higher benefits in unemployment. I have made research into unemployment benefits in the European countries, and it is not as you always point out that we here in Austria are almost the final light in terms of unemployment benefit. England, for example, has a fixed unemployment contribution of only 5 000 s, regardless of income. You can't say it's high. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian economy makes a big contribution to adult education, training, training. There are very important measures being taken by companies. The expenditure here is certainly – there are no figures above – in the area of a double-digit billion for what is done by the Austrian economy in the field of education and training. The companies also know best which employees they serve with what qualifications and what qualifications are needed. If I hear that companies should be punished if they do few trainings or no training for their employees, I can only tell you: All these sanctions, which are constantly floating in space here, whether in view of a lack of women's share, are counter-productive and false, because they, of course, affect small and medium-sized enterprises. A larger company, of course, has more scope and can also make it easier to provide services for education and for the employment of disabled people than a small and medium-sized or structurally weak enterprise. That is why it is much better to start with promotions and with information, just as Minister Bartenstein did in his earlier ministerial era with regard to the family audit. I would like these support measures to be taken in the field of education.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13359	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13380	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I allow the debates of the Opposition Revue to take place and represent the criticisms, wishes and suggestions, I must say: It would sink into chaos as far as its economic policy is concerned! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is where Mr Schwemmlein comes out and calls for an increase in subsidies in tourism. He believes that tourism is dying, so to speak, because its subsidies have become smaller. He still lives in this ideology that economic policy is subsidy policy. It has completely disappeared from my colleague Mrs Schwemlein – and I can ask you, Mr. Cot, for the Wifo issue No. 3 in which this is presented in great detail – how much in the tourism sector turnover, utilization and, of course, profits have increased. And there Mrs. Sophie Bauerherhero comes out and calls on Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs to restrict the so-called shadow economy, which has risen from 4 percent to 6 percent, and she is an error in finding the high bureaucracy in the recruitment of the skilled workers. Mrs. Bauer! We from the economy, we from the ÖVP have always called for the reduction of undeclared work. It wasn't your concern. On the contrary, you have always protected the black construction of the house builders. And then there is Mr Oellinger and he is now starting to criticize the incompatibility of Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour. Mr Oellinger has still not noticed – ah, you are now here – that in Sweden and the UK, in the UK, there is probably a union of these two areas. [[Abg. Oils: Always!]] [[Abg. Oils: It can't be compared!]] Dear Mr. Oillinger! Sweden is the traditional socialist country. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not even true!]] It is this country that you always cite as an example of the high social standard. Your objections, Mr Oellinger, are at best bluffs of an old Marxist. I really can't understand you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Original!]] But, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, what always forces all the speakers of the opposition, is that this budget renewal is essentially at the expense of the... – Mrs Mertel, be quiet once! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] They're going to get along, but today, unfortunately, my speaking time is far too short. – The speakers of the opposition repeatedly express that the budget recovery has been carried out at the expense of the workers. As a representative of the economy, I say to you that the economy has made a very big contribution to the reorganisation of the budget: Let us think of the abolition of the investment exemption, of the restrictions on provisions! Let us think of the increase in depreciation of buildings and the limitation of the loss report! I could give you a few more points. These measures alone have required about 15 billion schilling of contributions from the economy. However, there are other contributions, such as the removal of resources from the FLAF. There have been another 17 billion schillings from the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is this the intelligence test now?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue this path of the performance-oriented eco-social market economy by the government, in the person of our revered Minister of Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13495	Mr Lexer is speaking as the next speaker. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13516	Mr President. Minister! I would like, in a logical conclusion, to point out yesterday that sport is not only important in the Ministry of Sports, but should also play a major role in the economy, even today, in this matter. Sport is still underestimated in its economic dimension. This confirms a brand new study by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, which these days by the chairman of the Sports Trade Section, Dkfm. Aichinger, the public was presented. I would like to point out some of the investments that have a positive impact on the economy: Firstly, sport is health promotion. There's a savings potential, as we know, of about 11.5 billion schilling. I think that if we could reduce the government rate, if the additional wage costs could be reduced by this amount, this would be a major contribution in Austria to economic promotion. Secondly, sport increases the performance of people. This, of course, also means increasing competitiveness. Well-trained and powerful employees are an essential part of a good location quality. I do not need to say that sports also secures jobs – directly and indirectly. I would like to shorten this now because I have promised my friend and colleagues to withdraw him a little from my speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who is this, the friend?]] – Mr Bruckmann. I would just like to say that, especially in sports-related media, reporting on sports plays a major role and many people find work there. I would like to mention the ORF sport here in praise. I think he is exemplary and masterful when you make international comparisons. I think that a strong ORF of course also warrants strong ORF sports reporting in the future. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] Overall, sport is becoming more and more a centre of economic considerations, and I think it can certainly be no shame that we have an economic and labour minister with our Minister Bartenstein, one of the fastest marathon runners among the politicians. Although I am not going to start with the marathon – I have not done that as a goal – it is certainly good to work with a sportsman in the interests of sports and the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13558	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. The speaking time is also 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13579	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, let me sum up briefly. I believe that this economic debate has again proved that Austria needs this federal government, that Austria needs this new economic policy path that this government has taken, and that, in fact, the opposition – that was my impression – has actually remained without any concrete economic policy alternative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think Austria can be glad that this government has left an antique, partially backward, economic policy that is primarily oriented towards the state's influence, as was the case in the 1970s. This policy has not sufficiently taken note of the global globalisation of economic relations and the liberalisation of markets and, above all, did not want to stop consistently the way into the debt trap of all Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially when I think about the Greens, it has shown a bit that the opposition here has, in a way, practised an economic-political monument care for political concepts, which in social practice simply did not pass their test. [[Abg. Oillingers: You already forgot!]] - You should be careful. I have a lot of good formulations that just fit your policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I do not want to repeat this, but we all know it: the 5-billion-shilling plea of the "consumer", the 110-billion-schilling plea of the national states and now the irrespicable debt policy with more than 1 700 billion shilling in government debt after 30 years of socialist financial policy, ladies and gentlemen! Every seventh schilling must be spent on interest service, Mr Edlinger. And you're one of the main culprits of this development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That cannot be said often enough! That you have the hair dyed red only shows that this attitude goes into your hair roots. But she was wrong for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness and new condolences with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why this trend change is necessary, and we are glad that this government has launched this trend change. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You have always played only the stone guest in the government!]] We are now on the right track again thanks to this government. [[Abg. Oils: What do your hair roots look like? We want to know your hair root color!]] The economy is flourishing. The number of employees increases. We have full employment, ladies and gentlemen, although this government has taken over more than 76 billion schilling of debt alone from the ÖIAG. The extra-budget debt has totaled 293 billion schillings, ladies and gentlemen! But I assume we've taken the right course. We are in the process of paying off this debt. In any case, one thing is clear: The opposition has nothing to do with this government's economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They did not offer any constructive alternatives. They have not put forward any proposals on how the social state should be financed differently, how to ensure pensions, how to finance the future of youth. This will continue to be reserved for this government in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13679	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13701	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will have more time on the financial chapter, since I will deal with the issue of budget deficit and the like. Dear Leo Maderthaner! One thing I have to say: Who forced the EIA to make this policy for 13 years? [[Call the ÖVP: The SPÖ!]] That wasn't anyone's desire! To colleagues Kukacka. If he makes another accusation to Mr Edlinger, I don't know if he knows what he's talking about. Edlinger was Minister of Finance for three years. In two years he reduced the budget deficit from 5 percent to 2.5 percent. What are you doing? – You don’t know what you’re talking about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I have only 4 minutes of speaking time, and I would also like to say positive things, especially in the direction of Minister Bartenstein. Colleague Cordula Frieser said something about chaos. I just want to warn you: A few days ago, with the accusation of chaos, some parties in Vienna made a terrible "hinfaller". I'd be careful. After all, if you were to deal with it, you'd come up with what's chaotic. I don't want to talk about a number of laws, the repeals by the Constitutional Court and the like. But let me address a subject that should please us all. Yesterday, Minister Bartenstein addressed a subject in a press conference which is far more important than many have clearly assumed, otherwise we would have said more in the debate today on export. I am grateful that you presented this in good time at a press conference – this is this foreign trade book. The numbers are huge! Since the previous government has also been supposed to act so badly again, I must say that you can clearly disavow your Federal Chancellor. From his statement of government last year in February, I still have exactly in mind how he spoke about the economic success of this country, about the economic success balance of the last one and a half decades. So either the right thing is what you say now, or it's true what the chancellor said. For export. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be proud! For the first time over 33 percent export rate! Great! Let us be proud of how many thousands – twenty thousands! – jobs have been created here! Mr Minister, I do not want to thank you for something, because, unlike many of your party colleagues, you obviously do not push away what was one of the causes or the main causes, namely the export offensive, started by the Ruster decisions of 1998. It's easy to find, ladies and gentlemen, how this works: There is an accurate investigation, which means 1 percent increase in the export rate: half a percent more GDP, 17.5 billion schilling for our economy. And if we look closely at the development of the labour market, about 6 000 to 7 000 were created in the first year, 10,000 to 12 000 in the second year and 15 000 to 18,000 in the third, fourth year. That is, if we convert what happened there from 1998 to today, then we know the explanation of why highly qualified jobs have been created in these three years: It was a result of this extremely good export offensive that was launched. If I hear you want to join a new, second export offensive, I can only say: Yes, I do! If you inform us in time, we are happy to be there. Finally, some suggestions. Federal Minister Bartenstein! There are a few important things to do – They mentioned them in the Committee: for example, the WTO. Thank you for giving us information yesterday. This is extremely important for us, because it is more than just a question of bringing about freedom to provide services, more liberalisation. You know the problems. I don't have the speaking time to spread more about it. The subject of shop opening and local supply has been addressed by us. If you inform us in good time if we can start talking in time – not like others in the past or only yesterday – then you will have partners in us. We're just not one to do it. Co-design means being informed in advance! That's our way, but don't say husch-puch, yes or no, and then be put down as a destruction opposition. That's not our policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13743	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mr Speciale, want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group IX of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapters 63 and 64 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 540 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent to this sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Advisory Group III Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13793	We shall now proceed to the negotiation of the Advisory Group III, External Affairs. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13823	Mr President. High house! We now have to discuss the chapter on foreign policy, of course also foreign cultural work, which will touch part of my speech. In particular, I would like to start with the question of whether there is an Austrian foreign policy at all. I sometimes have the impression that it is commented on and that we are there as fence guests, so to speak, but one does not actually have the impression that a design foreign policy is being made. The question that arises in this context is: Where, on what initiative has the Austrian Federal Government left real traces in foreign policy? What example was that by? . If we listen to the reports in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the Council of Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on General Affairs and I let the discussions take place again, we can hardly really discover anything. I can cite several examples, especially as regards our position within the framework of the European Union. Where are the initiatives – whether they are in the process of deepening, or in the case of enlargement of the EU – that can be expected to have an original Austrian manuscript? Where is there really – except that meetings are reported – the realization that we have taken a position and exerted influence? So it is when we look at Balkan policy. There too: perhaps humanitarian measures, perhaps some kind of medical force, some teacher who is helping some kind of donation that should support the reconstruction. But where have political actions been put in this regard, which ultimately indicate an Austrian manuscript? Or if I look at the question that has recently been at the heart of the discussion, namely the so-called strategic partnership. In the context of a press conference, you have had a paper distributed, among other things, as one of the points of the strategic partnership: The second phase – in this score – is the identification of those common interests, which after our neighbours' accession can form the basis for a community of interests, an alliance with our neighbours. Yeah, I'm wondering, What has happened so far? Why, then, has one not really been able to see or to see where there are common interests here? – If Austria comes now, the question arises whether those concerned are at all interested in finding common interests with us, whether there are even objective interests, whether they may not go directly to Berlin, Paris or to other capitals, where they can recognize more common interests than is the case with us. When I think about the "wording" that we had in the debate about nuclear energy – as legitimate as it was and is – I must say that the way in which we carried it out did not necessarily contribute to the relationship being such that the interest in doing something with us could arise. Or if I think of the junkimation strategy in the Beneš decrees and in the AVNOJ decisions, about which we are probably not far apart at all, I have to say the way: either the states concerned withdraw these decisions, or we will put our veto in the accession negotiations – just as the FPÖ, as Jörg Haider and how his people want it – that is not the basis for really creating a basis for discussion here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What else? Why not?]] After all, the entire so-called strategic partnership is only pure macularity; there is nothing at all connected with a perspective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If a regional conference is planned to be invited to the representatives from the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, Poland and so on to Vienna, I wonder if they will not immediately get associations that the emperor calls his regional princes to discuss the toe. I don't know if that could be. And I don't know whether these states simply want to be integrated once again and in another form, or even under this government, into any political or real – under quotations – "compulsory community". I think that's unforgettable, that's too late, and I'm afraid that's going to go to the highest degree. I'll tell you something. I am not a follower of Mr Hoffmann-Ostenhof, no follower of "profile", but it is still interesting to read it sometimes, and he writes: "On all the historically favourable conditions that a narrower Europe would have" – for example, I do not share the concept of "Central Europe" with him, I rather say "Central Europe", but he prefers to say "Central Europe" – "the current strategy of "strategic partnership" is a dead birth. The full-bodied statements by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner do not benefit from this. It is to despair: Austria has systematically gone away from Europe's political map. Austrian foreign policy is at the end, despite hectic grievances and friendly grievances." I can only tell you: That seems to be the case! This is a real analysis that needs to be taken seriously. But it's going on. It's not about Europe, it's not about the neighbours. For example, if this is the case here in the paper: We want to maintain relations with the Great Powers!, I ask: What position do we now have in the ever-increasing dispute between Washington and Moscow? Where are we gonna get in there? Where are our markings, which are recognizable, in the Middle East conflict? Here there have been traditions of mediation and discussions. Are we a place where you want to meet again? Do you want to come to us? Or do you just want to fly over us to meet elsewhere? I have the presumption that you'd rather fly over us than land and come to us. Where are the initiatives that we can say: On Vienna soil, in this one or another important issue of conflict of global nature, there has been a meeting, an initiative where Austria has also played a certain role!Unknown term type: "%s".? You won't find anything! That's the problem. They have, of course, also made life difficult by this constellation of the government. Think of the time we have spent together when these completely unnecessary sanctions were imposed. Of course, they have not made life easier for us, they have not increased our reputation, of course they have not improved our effectiveness both globally and in Europe. This has influenced the policy of the Federal Government. I recognize in many of their steps the mentality of making Austria smaller than it is. That's bitter, because we're not that small again. But to make Austria smaller than it is, that is contrary to a certain pride that we should have calmly. I have to say, it's very sad that this can be seen. If we were – I say this again – not a state, but a private company, the payments that Mr. Haider, as regional manager, would have to pay for the damage he caused with his statements, went to the millions, you can believe me! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Quickly to foreign culture policy, to foreign cultural work. After several calls for a concept and after clarification, how the cultural forums are to work, whether there is any possibility of funding, how independent they are from the ambassadors and how the messages are to be organized at all. Here, I believe, our criticism is being addressed. On the open questions, how really the cultural forums are defined, which legal status they really have, the debate today offers the opportunity, and I would ask you to do so again, although I accept that you are trying to meet us a little bit. I would ask you to make this more clear and to bring it into the discussion, because that is also important. You can't permanently shorten, close everything, and then order an advertising company to invent any brands: "Foreign Cultural Policy New", "Culture Forums". The cultural attaché is then welcomed with: "Good day, Mr. Karl, Kulturforum. You have now been renamed, you are no longer a cultural attaché." That is, of course, too little, but it must be said with more clarity what you want, also in terms of content. In your entire concept you have presented, there are still many ambiguities. They have still not been able to say what the cultural mainstream is. I'd like to go back to that. Sage You're telling me: What's the mainstream? What is the tradition, what is the mainstream? Can you please do these two things again, so that we can really understand each other in the joint debate? I'd like to close it, too. I really don't know who I've been talking to today, because the campaign for the Federal President seems to start. Mrs. Foreign Minister! In surveys, you're already published that you're a candidate. I ask you: Did you order that? Is that just a crossshot from somewhere? - Yes, please, here it says: [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please!]] APA, 16.34: "Ferrero-Waldner has best chances at the Federal President's Office." – Do you want to become a Foreign Minister now, Mr Klubobmann Khol, or what? Would you like to praise the foreign minister to Hofburg? Is the GfK the necessary support for you to achieve this? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bullshit!]] It is better then, Mr Khol answers the questions and not you, Mrs Foreign Minister, then I may have put them to the wrong address. But the campaign seems to start. This is how campaigns begin: by presenting a survey by a supposedly independent opinion research institution, comparing it with any person and then saying: That's the best! So, please, I'm sorry, I'd like to add that and connect it with the question: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not fair! Absolutely not fair!]] Mrs. Foreign Minister, would you like to become the President of the Federal Republic of Germany? Answer us to this question, please also tell us about it today!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13922	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e13944	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Cap: How the arbitrator is going! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I listen to you in this way, I can only appreciate how competent colleagues here have always acted as first speakers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The call for arbitration sounds!]] It also surprises me that, as first speaker, Mr. One, did not act as a colleague, but as a colleague, Mr. Cap. So there are three foreign policy camps in your group, and at the moment, Mr Cap has a nose in this very divided foreign policy group. – That's what it seems to be. Mr Cap! Perhaps it also has to do with the fact that you were of course not responsible for the European policy of this group for a long time and therefore do not have to know that, as long as there was a socialist Chancellor and we were already in the European Union, there was no handwriting in Austria, which was found at European level. I can't remember Klima or Vranckky leaving traces somewhere. [[Call to the liberals: In the budget!]] I found that last night. To this day no evidence could be provided. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Climate has left traces! In the budget!]] The fact is that this federal government was reserved for the first time to leave sustainable Austrian traces at European level, and that was in Nice. I believe that the post-Nizza process, which was decided at the time, offers further opportunity for Austrian politics to leave traces. I am convinced that this will happen. There are already a number of important considerations, including those which must be primarily in the Austrian interest, which are well received in the final effect among Austrians. Mrs. Federal Minister! However, it is also true that the European Union - you said in several interviews in the run-up to this debate - has not been very successful in the common foreign and security policy that much of what was expected could not be fulfilled. That's what I'm right about. As far as the situation in the Middle East is concerned, the European Union has not really shown a flag, although it would be highly necessary and, last but not least, requested by Annan, as I mean, right. I would like to ask you quite politely, at European level, once again, to insist that the European Union has the duty to intervene in the Middle East at least for the same rights for all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, Mrs Bundesminister, there is no doubt that our focus is on the area of the European Union. I said yesterday that we failed to light up the common agricultural policy a little closer in Stockholm. We have current problems, and these current problems would have required a more detailed explanation on the agricultural summit. It is the fact that the system needs to be modified before it is extended, because it does not make sense to transfer a poor system, a sick system that still costs a lot of money, possibly to an enlarged Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that the common agricultural policy must be fundamentally reformed as a condition for enlargement, because what has so far arisen from problems will certainly result from a wrong structure and funding will probably not be given if this is to be transferred to an even larger area. By the way, I would also like to include the interesting considerations of the future President-in-Office of the Court of Justice, who stressed that he will have a very, very important role to play in the follow-up of Tampere, EU enlargement and the post-Nizza process. On the post-Nizza process, he said that 50 years after the establishment of the ECSC, it was not only possible to continue European integration as an open-ended process, but he could quite imagine, for example, taking further integration steps in the area of European foreign, security and defence policy, but – and this is the interesting – relocate competences to national or regional level in other areas. And that's something we should also pay attention to. Mrs. Federal Minister! We believe that subsidiarity should not only be led into the mouth, but that we now finally have to live with subsidiarity. I think we should also devote the future discussion to this question: What is subsidiarity for Austrian politics? What is she supposed to look like? How do we want to implement them together?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14027	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14048	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, let me express my thanks to the staff of the Foreign Office as well as my respect for what they did in particular last year. This last year 2000 was probably a very hard, a very difficult one. The people who work abroad in the embassies were constantly confronted with questions about what is going on in Austria. They had to try to clarify the situation in Austria and to make it clear that there is a government in Austria with the participation of a party which, in the international context, can certainly be declared as a right-wing populist with far-right elements, but there are also people in this country who have not chosen it, and that democracy in that country is still very alive. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jäger]] Here the officials and officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have done a really excellent job, and I would like to thank them and express my respect to them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nevertheless, in order to speak on the budget and also on the foreign policy as a whole, you will not be surprised, even on the basis of previous word reports, that I cannot be satisfied with both what is stated in the budget and with what is happening outside the world. We only had 2 days to think. - I'd like to. Mrs. Minister! After the end of the sanctions last year and after the OSCE Presidency, which gave you the opportunity or gave you the opportunity to intervene internationally, to shape offensive foreign policy, what we have experienced since the beginning of this year is not marked by an offensive foreign policy, by one that shows: We want to design! As a contribution from Austria, for example, to the problems in south-eastern Europe – one of the most frequently quoted of your statements in recent weeks – the statement that the mandate of the KFOR troops in Macedonia should be extended. It was not the point of taking other measures, for example, to become more active within the EU, such as calling for something like a Special Representative for the region. For example, you could have acted. They could also have brought Austrian positions into the EU, for example, to present a more concerted and clearer policy of the European Union towards the Middle East. Where are the positions of Austria – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Cap – just across from the Middle East, where is Austria's offensive policy of mediation, negotiation, which Austria has pursued earlier? I would like Austria to bring such positions into the EU and try to ensure that, as has been said, a more open foreign policy takes place in the EU. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jäger.]] Or: Post-Nizza process. When, Mrs Foreign Minister, is it to be heard that you are committed, for example, to the fact that, with the involvement of the candidate countries, there should be a convention – as was the case with the Charter of Fundamental Rights – for the post-Nizza process, if you already have the "strategic partnership" so important to you? I haven't heard from you yet! But that would be one of the positions I wish for. As far as enlargement is concerned, I would like to say that Austria should be a pioneer country for opening borders, but not only for the economy, not only for the Austrians who can cross borders and settle and work there, but also for the people who want to come to our country. In contrast, they are trying to enforce within the EU that, as the Commission once wanted, there are perhaps only four years of transitional periods for free movement, but now there are definitely five, and there are seven for those countries that want more. There are seven years for Austria! That is, before 2010, 2012 you said that yourself in the Committee, there will be no freedom of movement for persons. – Ms. Minister! I wouldn't be proud of it in your place! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Signaling by this attitude They are the candidate countries that we do not want people from these countries to be able to work with us, namely, legally, not on the black market. They signal: We do not want them there, not so soon, it must still take a decade, expected from today! You say that on the one hand, and on the other hand you are promoting the "strategic partnership". Mrs. Minister! That makes you unbelievable! In the last days and weeks several articles have appeared in the "standard", even today, where it is about: How do the applicant countries see Austria? For example, the Slovenian ambassador in Austria says: In principle, such a partnership makes sense, but the scepticism exists in the implementation. The scepticism is that there are uneven partners! And developing a partnership between inequalities, which is, of course, very difficult to achieve. In addition, the ambassador says that the "known permanent disturbances" should also be eliminated. We know what he's referring to. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is this, for example?]] This is what the Slovenian ambassador says: "To eliminate the known permanent disturbances", for example, that the liberals always demand: Veto! As long as Slovenia has not abolished the AVNOJ provisions, simply a veto against accession! Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Super! I wanted to hear that! Because of human rights!]] I know you don't see it like that, but you're always in the middle of this. The liberals say something, you say again that it was not so anyway, you wanted it otherwise, you determined foreign policy. These statements are coming back and forth again and again, and the fact that you are now persuading that there will be seven-year transitional periods for Austria is a sign to me that you want to make foreign policy more liberal and not act independently. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jäger.]] Another question: What about Dr. Busek? Is he now your personal Commissioner for Enlargement in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the liberals claim, or is he the government's enlargement representative, as decided unanimously in the Council of Ministers? That's what we were talking about last week. Mr Westenthaler was against it, but you are in favour again. Is he now government representative, or is he your personal representative in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I would like an answer from you. Mrs. Minister! I have the impression that you want to cover the lack of creative, independent, shaping foreign policy with the fact that you are now putting various advertising campaigns into play. It will now be advertised for the strategic partnership, and then there will be the Austrian platform where the parties will also be invited to a meeting – unfortunately the next Monday, where we will have a plenary session of the National Council. But I'm not quite clear what the target is right here. Who should be the partners in this platform? Does the money come from the public employment budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? What is to be done with it? Or is there another advertising campaign with large television spots, posters, advertisements and so on, which should make it clear that the Austrians are for enlargement, although we know that there are massive resistances within your government? Mrs. Minister! I claim: If there was an offensive, creative Austrian foreign policy that would not constantly be disturbed by the interference factor FPÖ, then you would not need this advertising campaign, because you could conduct artistic foreign policy, then you would not need to cover these factors to show that everything is okay. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Propos Advertising campaign: Today, they have presented an advertising campaign called "the future of development cooperation". In the APA you can read that you now want to put the call for a more just world at the centre of your information initiative, that there are TV spots, ads, banner advertising that show the opportunities for action for each individual; that shows that it concerns all of us that each and every individual can personally participate in order to make this world fairer. Mrs. Minister! You're a foreign minister. You're a politician. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: She knows that!]] An initiative of your ministry that everyone and everyone should do something to act more justly is not your job, I dare to claim here. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: Of course it is!]] Your job is not to make advertising campaigns, but politics. Today, the development cooperation budget has been decided, which has fallen once more by 15 million schilling compared to last year, compared with the success of 2000 it has even been reduced by 12 percent, and at the same time you are making an advertising campaign in which people are invited to donate. - Where are they supposed to spend? There are television spots where, for example, a small bubble is shown and then says: "Teacher or soldier?". Then "Teacher" is clicked, and then it says: "You have the choice." After that comes: "This is an initiative of the Foreign Minister." – Ms. Minister! I hope that if there are ads, at least a donation account will be included. But I wonder, Where do these donations go? Then decide which organization will receive these donations? Apart from: The collection of donations is important and necessary – and many organizations in Austria do this very well – but the task of the Austrian state is not to call up especially for the donation collection. It can't be called: The people are supposed to donate more, they are supposed to act more themselves, we unfortunately have less money in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and therefore we pay less and now put it down to each individual and every individual. I am not saying that there is no need for greater awareness, but the public budget of the Department for Development Cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been increased by 5 million – from 10 million to 15 million schilling – while development policy education and public employment organisations receive less money each year. But these are those who have done and do years and decades of educational work in this country that not only turn on individual television spots or an advertisement, but also do educational work in schools, in groups to strengthen awareness. Mrs. Minister! They replace the development policy, which is important for Austria and which this world needs in principle, with advertising campaigns! It's embarrassing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jäger.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Campaign government!]] They are not only doing this in development policy, but the government is even doing advertising campaigns to cover what it is creating problems, rather than solving problems. Mrs. Minister! The representatives of AGEZ, the working group on development cooperation, have provided us with some hard news for development policy speakers this morning. I can pass on these nuts on to you on behalf of the developmentist NGOs – it is paranuss to crack very hard! – because these organisations will still have very long and hard to chew in the reduction of this budget. They have built up for years something that they can no longer really carry on by reducing the budget. Advertising campaigns are not suitable to increase the budget again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek is the Federal Minister for the Interior, Dr. Ferrero-Waldner Paranuss.]] Another point: It is your concern – and we have discussed it more often – that the donations can be deducted from the tax. In principle, I have nothing against it, it must not be that the donations can be deducted, but the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the EZA is getting smaller and smaller. In one of the discussions, someone from the Ministry of Finance was also present, and it was quite clear that the Minister of Finance would not agree to this proposal. And now you're calling on people to donate more? – Ms. Minister! Somehow this doesn't fit in. It is only in keeping with the fact that the budget for development cooperation is falling, but at the same time it is being advertised to cover what is missing here. They want to do these things themselves in office and no longer allow the non-governmental organizations to do their long-standing work. Mrs. Minister! I very much hope that these tough budget notes, these hard-core nuts, which the organizations have to crack through you, will not keep the organizations in the neck and will not destroy their decades of efforts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, I hope that the budget will really rise again next year, as you have announced.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14222	Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14244	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the criticism of Mr Cap and Mr Lunacek that there are no traces of Austrian foreign policy: Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Federal Minister is outstanding with her values – that is to say, answered by Mr Cap – is that she is making an excellent foreign policy. This is already the best answer to how the Austrians judge this foreign policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Lunacek! If the traces of Austrian foreign policy are not clear enough to you, then probably because you close your eyes – and then complain to us that you can't see anything. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because she's blind!]] But that is the way in which one should not pursue politics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This is your view of things!]] – I would like to try to open your eyes. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] We have always had a classic threefold of our foreign policy: European policy, neighbourhood policy and world policy. In all three areas, these Foreign Ministers and the Foreign Office are focusing on each other. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: In the advertising campaign!]] In Europe's policy: Ladies and gentlemen, enlargement is the project for Austria, which also affects all Austrians – probably the largest project since our accession and the largest project for the European Union itself. What are we doing about this in Austria? – First of all, it is very important that the chapter, which is now opened in the accession negotiations with the applicants, namely free movement of workers, is treated in such a way that it is acceptable to us. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: For those too, not just for us!]] I share here the criticism of the ÖGB, which the Chambers of Workers repeatedly express. We need transitional periods for the border regions. What's the foreign minister doing? What's the Federal Chancellor doing? – We try to fix transitional periods – in a flexible way: five years plus an extension by two years, therefore a maximum of seven years. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: The ÖVP was different! Seven years!]] But it also goes in the other direction. If the standard of living with our neighbors is so high that we can open earlier, we will do the same. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: A unanimous decision is necessary!]] I think that is exactly the way in which we conduct foreign policy properly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Theme number two: strategic partnerships. What is a foreign minister supposed to do better than to lay the foundations for cooperation with these candidates today, once they are a member of the European Union? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Too late!]] These are the bridges we hit. We want Central Europe to be a priority in this large Union. And today, when we connect with our neighbours to do so, organize ourselves for many years in advance partnerships, the living foreign policy is. That's great, I'd say. If, on the third, we are now starting to inform the Austrians of the benefits of the applicants for accession and of a large Union on an Austrian platform, that is exactly what we need. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's not insifting or anything else, it's informing. Information is part of it, and we need that, Mr Cap. Your party is also willing to participate in this Austrian platform, which we very much welcome. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Europe's policy is perfectly prepared. In the neighbourhood policy, too, the foreign minister has done a lot to date. If, on the occasion of his visit to Austria, the Czech Foreign Minister has now announced for the first time that he can very well imagine a solution to the question of dealing with the past, this is a innovation. This is precisely a confirmation of the way that this foreign minister has proposed, namely to clarify bilaterally with our neighbours in the Czech Republic and with our neighbours Slovenia questions of the past. It is exactly this path that now leads to a success piece by piece. I would like to congratulate the Federal Minister on the fact that I do not believe that this statement has been so loosely taken from the lips of the Czech Foreign Minister, for he must represent it at home. The fact that he has made them is a sign that foreign policy is exactly according to Austrian standards, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the issue of world policy: What has Austria set up for initiatives within the UN? Let us think, for example, of the whole question complex in connection with the landmines! Mrs Jäger also contributed to this initiative. It was a successful project prepared by the current Minister, then still State Secretary. What have we done in the framework of the UN General Assembly to protect the child from the tow organisations? Many Austrian initiatives have been put in place there. So you can see, both in Europe's policy and in the neighbourhood policy, as well as in world policy, Austria leaves clear traces, and I congratulate the Federal Minister for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now to the budget chapter "Exterior": It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the cuts that have to be made in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as in all the departments are particularly painful, because this is a small department with a small budget, but with great impact. I also deeply regret that we are reaching that threshold from which substance and quality can only be lost. Now the last brand has been reached, where we can still move everything possible in order to ensure that foreign policy remains half-way. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Halfway!]] But I do not want the service facilities of our representatives abroad to harm that there are bottlenecks when Austria needs help. I also do not want the substance of the buildings that we own to be postponed to the extent necessary, so that the whole thing might end in a disaster. I think the funds are really very short, and we've almost reached the last threshold. That is why I confirm the opinion of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that an increase in the budget must be achieved next year. The Federal Minister is trying to set priorities even under these difficult budgetary conditions, but we are clear that this is of course extremely difficult for her. What the staff are doing – and I would like to conclude my speech – I have not been able to see in my many trips that our diplomats and the staff of the Foreign Office would be discouraged in view of these difficult conditions. On the contrary: They serve us as Members of Parliament perfectly, but they also offer the Austrians an excellent service facility. That is why I would also like to thank all the Members of the Foreign Office on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14421	Ms Benita Ferrero-Waldner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14445	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for giving praise, recognition and respect to my officials here. I think it wasn't just last year, but it's an excellent whole of our civil service, and we're going to work on the same thing as before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, let me say that I would have liked you to be able to see and hear all of you, because in the last three months alone – we have only set up foreign policy initiatives at the end of March – I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, I can already see. On the one hand, after we enter the phase of enlargement, the Strategic Partnership plus the Platform – on which I come to speak – is, on the other hand, a new cultural concept that has become necessary, and on the other hand, this is a new support for development cooperation, which is not very easy because the NGOs have so far failed to create the awareness that we all wish for and I would like to see. [[Abg. Jäger: Debt is that no money is there!]] To the Strategic Partnership: It's very different than you see, ladies and gentlemen. All the Foreign Ministers of those countries that I have invited very much welcome this idea. I had a long and positive discussion yesterday with the Czech Foreign Minister Kavan. Everyone is likely to come too. Polish Foreign Minister Bartoszewski does not know exactly yet, but he also welcomes this idea. I will probably discuss this matter with Poland at a Polish seminar in Alpbach on Sunday, not only but also jointly. I'd like you to listen. Those who are responsible for foreign policy in these countries are very likely to agree because they see exactly what I mean by adding to certain projects and common interests in a first phase of the status quo. We need to focus and already – and you have not heard this too – discuss with these candidate countries the future of the EU or conduct the post-Nizza debate. That was already in the invitation letter, but you didn't see it. There I was the first one to suggest that. In a second phase, when the States – and this is likely to be the case from 2004 on – we will then jointly identify interests with these countries, discuss them, as well as in the BENELUX and Scandinavian countries. I can tell you that these countries are very positive. What they expect from us is just a support at the present stage, in order to represent the interests together with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Austrian platform is not an advertising campaign. You either didn't listen to me or you didn't understand me. What it is is quite clear: a platform on which all the political parties are invited to participate and, secondly, are a whole range of network partners, so that, like we did at the time in the Euro initiative, we can engage in a dialogue with the population. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You should have done that for a long time!]] It is probably annoyed that we enter into a dialogue with the population, but that is exactly the right thing, because of course we want to discuss Pro and Kontra in the individual questions with the population – both in the federal states and in the border regions. I think you should see that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you say we haven't set up any initiatives, you haven't listened again! For example, last Monday, before the Stockholm European Council, I set up a number of initiatives in the General Affairs Council and in Stockholm. But you obviously didn't want to read that either! What do you think, then, why Solana went to Macedonia again? – Because he went there as a "facilitator" as Commissioner for the EU, based on my initiative. He was glad I took this initiative. We do not need an additional special representative, but he is the EU Special Representative. That's very important! The same applies to the Middle East. The situation in the Middle East is so delicate and difficult that none of the major states are currently finding a solution. We have discussed this x-time, and we are again discussing this question. This question was also discussed at the Stockholm European Council. All of us have come to the opinion: We are trying to find a role for the EU, but a role that is reasonable. For the first time, there will be a new administration in America after a long time. For the first time there is a new government in Israel. That means that the parameters are completely new. This is, of course, seen, and the EU is looking for its role. So Solana was after the General Affairs Council in Israel on the same day. Yeah, why? – On the basis of these ideas. But what do you expect Austria to do? – Austria, as a member of the European Union, has to vote there. That's essential! I have also set up a number of OSCE initiatives last year. Even then you obviously didn't listen! The fact that Central Asia is found on the map today in the OSCE is that the topic "drugs", that the topic "combating the towing world" and that the topic of "terrorism" has been addressed, please go back to Austrian initiative. For the first time, the Caucasus – a particularly difficult area – became a topic of the discussions. The Balkans, the next neighbourhood area, naturally remains the goal of our initiatives. Why was the Macedonian Foreign Minister now in Austria, although his country is in a crisis situation? – Because he sees Austria as a friend country, a country you listen to and take initiatives. We have just signed, at a difficult moment, an investment protection agreement. This has been celebrated by the Macedonians as a step they need to invest so that there is more jobs and so that youth is satisfied in the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As far as the post-Nizza process is concerned, you have obviously not listened. In many of my lectures, I have said exactly what we see the four priorities. Firstly, the simplification of the Treaties. Secondly, the question of division of competence is also important. Of course, this has to be discussed first. This is a very complicated area. There you have to look at every article. Thirdly, the main question is: Will the Charter of Fundamental Rights, so to speak, be a basis of the Constitution? We'd like it for ourselves! Unfortunately, many others do not. And the even bigger question is fourth: What will be the role of national parliaments, or will there be a second Chamber of the European Parliament? All of this has already been addressed by me. In addition, as you know, the Federal Chancellor has invited him to a parliamentary survey. Finally, development cooperation. To this end, I can tell you: I believe that it is extremely important that we continue, of course, beyond normal measures, to strive to strengthen awareness in this regard in the population. For many years, NGOs have received about the same amount – sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less – for public relations. But the success depends not only on it, but also on the fact that who has a certain range and how to use it. I can tell you: If you will see both the brochure we have made for it and the television spot, then you will notice that it says quite clearly: What you can do at www.eza.gv.at or under a telephone number. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not just donations, it's of course a whole series of other things that it's about. You can buy "Fair trade" for example. That's part of it, too. That means: If you were fair, you would have to support this action! But unfortunately, you only operate opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: You are Polish!]] I would also like to say something about cultural work. They say: What's the foreign minister got for ideas? – Have you heard of "Culture for Enlargement"? This is about accompanying cultural work for the Strategic Partnership. The concept for this has been developed, the project is already being prepared. Yes, what more do you want than to support the Strategic Partnership from all sides, namely political, economic and cultural? I believe that we have set up those initiatives for the next few years that will continue in foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14573	The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Einsamt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14594	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bundesminister, let me take some lead in two comments you have made. First: You explained here that you had already said at various lectures what the focus of your work is on the post-nizza process, and kept us from taking note of all of this. Let me make a modest comment on this: It will also need a constitutional majority in this House for the post-Nizza process, and it would also be appropriate for you to talk about it with those parties that do not form the government. That's what I'm allowed to invite you to do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, You have stated here that Mrs Bundesminister, the Federal Chancellor, has invited a parliamentary survey in connection with the post-Nizza process. I am not sure that this is a matter for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to invite, but when we asked about what was planned in the last few days in the government's clubs, we were told that we did not yet know what the Federal Chancellor was planning. I think there would undoubtedly be a better vote. Third point as a preliminary remark: You should afford, Mrs Federal Minister, another and perhaps also a better ex-off defenseman than Mr Spindelegger, because to present what you have done and to point out that you were willing to take up a deadline which the German Federal Chancellor has proposed to tell us here that you want to make bridges in the future and that you are planning an information on EU enlargement, but you are not doing anything that improves the objective conditions for us to know here that you were willing to hear something from the Czech Foreign Minister, and, moreover, to point out that in the field of world policy performance has been done in the previous legislative period, I think it is all great, but that it is only so that it is not worthy of that you yourself can do this better. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would just like to focus on one point – Mr Cap mentioned it earlier – because I think there are still some questions open. It seems that your most popular project is the project of a Strategic Partnership or, as you have also mentioned, the project of an interest group with the Central Eastern European countries. In your speech to the Austrian Society for Foreign Policy and to the Austrian League for the United Nations on 22 February. In February of this year, you stated that, I quote, "the geographical, economic, political and cultural conditions in the region suggest the development of special relations between Austria and the future new members of the EU". – End of the quote. As far as I am concerned, Mrs Federal Minister, you can still be followed, but I would have expected the further speech to become more concrete. This hope, however, has unfortunately been disappointed. Mrs. Federal Minister! We Socialists – and I can assure you – are also in favour of finally putting our relations with the enlargement candidate countries in our neighbourhood on a better basis, that we are really beginning to hear what their needs are, and that we are talking with these countries under the condition of full equality, and that we do not act in this way – I do not mean primarily you, or I mean in itself not you personally – as if the developing countries to which we can prescribe how they behave. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! However, we do not have the impression that there is a common and, above all, a single line of government or government and that the government is also following this concept. I think, however, that this is one of the most essential conditions for a partnership, namely that the partners on which it is concerned can agree on a relationship that is clear and in which not every day any other signal can be heard. Mrs. Federal Minister! We also agree that Austrian companies are once again increasing their efforts; they have already made some efforts to get involved in the enlargement countries. We agree that the Federal Government supports such efforts by Austrian companies. We want to flourishing economic developments with our neighbours, because that is in the interest of Austria. We want, not only but also, to export more products to these countries, but above all we wish to give our political and economic conditions in the enlargement countries whose citizens hope to give prospects for their development, because this is the best prerequisite for no one to fear here, that too many people from the candidate countries might come to us and want to work here if the EU is enlarged. Mrs. Federal Minister! We do not know, however, whether this is also the view of the entire Federal Government. This is the problem we see as opposition here. Above all, however, our neighbors do not know whether this is the position of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Federal Government is clear! But at the trade union it's a little more unclear!]] And these countries should now be prepared, Mr Khol, to enter into a special partnership with Austria, namely a strategic partnership, as you call it, without any clarification of these conditions? Mrs. Federal Minister! We also support this in order to give another example of the bilateral and peaceful discussion of questions of the reprocessing of the fatal past of National Socialism, the Second World War and all the atrocities and consequences of this period. We also want all forms of displacement of civilian populations to be recognised and assessed as what it is: an injustice and a violation of the rules of human rights. And we want these displacements not to have any further far-reaching consequences. Furthermore, we do not want to blame the people living today for a past which they do not have to answer, because under these conditions we also have to make accusations, many more weighty ones that refer to the time before. We do not want to reverse history, but we want to solve the problems that remain of it, in all peace, in all caution and with all toughness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of the Greens) Not uninteresting!]] But, Mrs. Federal Minister, we do not always have the impression that both government parties also see it that way. That's the problem you have to call by name. Mrs. Federal Minister! As a foreign minister, we would have expected you to try first to meet these and further minimum conditions – in the short period of time that remains for me to speak – no longer feasible. This is a task that you have to fulfil in the government, and it is a task that you have to fulfil quietly and quietly and with the help of diplomats and diplomats of the Foreign Office towards the candidate countries. Partners, i.e. countries they want as partners, need to know what they are dealing with. And there goes the following: Trust needs reliability – our reliability! – and time. It won't be overnight. In this respect, Mrs Federal Minister, we therefore see tasks, and we also see tasks in which we are happy to support you, but, I say clearly, these are primarily tasks in the bilateral field. But let me address another aspect. They like to use the term "strategic partnership". – You have to ask yourself what that means. Is this a special partnership, and if it is a special partnership, Mrs Bundesminister, who then excludes it? Who are the partners who are not part of the special partnership? And what are these countries that do not belong to it to think if they are not special partners of Austria? Mrs. Federal Minister! In the last few days and weeks, I have had the opportunity to talk to representatives of enlargement countries about this question, and they too have asked exactly this question. They have also asked what it could mean for them themselves to be involved in a partnership with Austria, especially since they are already in partnerships with other countries. Consider, for example, the special relationship between Hungary and Croatia! So what does it mean for these countries to go into a strategic partnership with Austria, and what does it mean for their respective other partners? Have you, Mrs. Federal Minister, considered what that means? Have you considered how the other countries could react to it, namely those we do not want as strategic partners, and whether this can also have disadvantages for Austria? Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to propose that you give up great words in foreign policy – they carry a risk that is not necessarily in the Austrian interest. But we will be happy to support you with our resources when it comes to developing bilateral relations with our neighbours, because this improvement is obviously in Austrian interest. Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to ask you to: Please help to blur the impression or to make the image disappear that the concept of the Strategic Partnership is really nothing but the insulted reaction of Austrian politics or the Austrian government to the treatment by the Western partners in the European Union, for example, according to the motto: If you treat us so uglyly, we're looking for other friends! – It would not only be bad if that were the basis, but it would be the open admission that your policy follows standards that are not adequate for a country’s foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll finish. We would like clear signals from you. We are willing to support you and your policy in the interests of Austria if you are willing to ensure this clarity and clarity. We believe that foreign policy needs a minimum level of consensus from the parties, namely all parties, in this Parliament. We are ready to talk in this direction, but we invite you not only to explain your programmatics at lectures, but also to involve possible partners in Parliament in good time.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14724	The next speaker is Mr Jung. – Please
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14745	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap used earlier to use the possibility of junkimizing in certain problems as Ultima Ratio. – I wonder – I can't ask him because he's not here – What will happen in Austria, for example, or what does it suggest if the Czech Government, perhaps also due to internal constraints, shows itself in a lack of understanding as to temelin, if we cannot negotiate the necessary repressiveness as the last possibility? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this situation, the Czech Government is already very much in evidence, in the truest sense of the word, not least because in the past it has not been made clear enough how serious Austria is with this question. I believe that this is something that we should learn from it, also with regard to the former Members of Parliament. A question raised in an interesting way by the AVNOJ regulations and Beneš decrees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Those alive today should not be blamed for things that they do not have to answer!]] Mr Ein! You said a very interesting sentence: Those who are still alive today should not be accused of a past that they do not have to answer. – I agree with you here, but this must apply to everyone in the discussion. This applies to all countries and all countries. We have done a lot in this direction lately, but there are also areas in which changes have to be made there too. Imagine that certain laws are still in force in Austria! What effect, what effect, and also effect, would this have on the survivors of this time? Mr Ein! If, then, for all, and therefore I say quite consciously and clearly here, also as an explanation of today's newspaper article: For us, the liberals do not have a yes to an EU accession for countries that have not clearly and officially separated themselves, that is, by abolishing the corresponding parts of the Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions, from these laws of injustice. This also applies to Slovenia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The regulation of individual cases is not sufficient. On the other hand, one has to say that – and I say this quite with satisfaction and joy – is slowly to be observed by our neighbors. This has already been referred to by the Foreign Minister, and this has also been evident in the visit of Czech parliamentarians, with whom we have had very good talks here. The debate on historians also goes in the right direction, as well as the development of the cultural agreement with Slovenia. We really hope that it will continue in this direction. Austrian foreign policy really focuses on our environment in Eastern and South-East Europe and the Balkans. As the most dangerous crisis resort in this area, it has particular importance. Historical relations with this area offer opportunities, but also – this is no contradiction to my previous statements – special restraint when it comes to internal development in these countries. For both reasons, we are well advised not to intervene too clearly in national conflicts. Good services, humanitarian aid – and where it is desired by both sides, we also want to make use of it in the sense of Petersberg. However, we should not let ourselves be pushed into military complacency. I hope I agree with Mrs Lichtenberger once. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] Dangerous and non-world ideals have already caused a lot of trouble in the Balkans. We should, indeed, take note of the facts, whether they please us or not, if we do not want to perpetuate some conflicts. Those who believe that the Albanians in Kosovo will ever again pay taxes to Belgrade, or who believe that they will recognize a court of the Yugoslav Republic or submit to a judgment of such a court, are dangerously foreign to the world and maintain artificially a state of weakness that in truth prevents normalization in this area. This is a fundamental note on the question of nationality in the Balkans, where the denial of realities has contributed significantly to the 1991 outbreak of war. Whoever keeps the Serbs, the Croats or the Albanians living as a majority in a settlement area adjacent to their motherland under pressure from reuniting with that state to which they feel ethnically related, only because they should be maintained with compulsion borders that no longer fit, makes a serious mistake and will prolong the conflict. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Whoever does this does not only make a mistake, but it also causes new calamity and new suffering. The so-called High Commissioner Dr. Petritsch acts in a very arbitrary way, for example, in the Czech Republic. He disappoints elected mandaters and changes lists of candidates according to lust and mood. In this way, democracy will at most be established, but certainly not brought near to the people there. Unfortunately, the policy of Dr. Petritsch in Bosnia and Herzegovina is very often equated with Austrian foreign policy, but we must react much more sensitively in this part of the Balkans. Finally, one last comment: There are a number of states that in the past have isolated themselves from the international community, mainly from their own indebtedness, but now seek their way back. We should support them in this and help them by their strength, even if they do not yet fully fulfil our visions of democracy. We therefore expressly welcome the contacts of Mrs Foreign Minister with Iran and call on her to continue these efforts with other comparable countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14822	The following is the actual correction of Mr Dr. Ehne.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14871	Mr President. High house! Although Mr Jung has given a rather mild speech, I said that we did not want the people still alive to be accused of things that they do not have to answer. – I didn’t say that! Right, I said we don't want the people living today to get these accusations. And unlike some of your representatives, for example, we do not believe that SS soldiers can still be praised today for remaining true to their views. [[Abg. Achatz: That was last-class! It's a subjugation!]] Second point: You have also stated that the High Representative in Bosnia, Dr. Petritsch, is self-evident. – Member of Parliament, young! You know that's wrong, too. The decommissioning of the President was in agreement with the Russians, with the Americans and with all EU representatives, and therefore, because this President has begun to build a second structure in Bosnia-Herzegovina against the agreed state structure. That is the fact, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14918	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e14940	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jung's speech, of course, leaves some important questions to be addressed to you, Mrs Federal Minister. It is precisely what he has said about the future of policy in South-East Europe that you have asked me whether you are of the same opinion, and let me ask you what the consequences of this analysis would be. Member of Parliament, young man! Is it the change of borders you want? [[Abg. Young: You've already refused that, and then the war broke out!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, is this an attitude you share? And above all, Mrs Bundesminister: Do you share Mr Jung's position on Mr Petritsch? Do you share this criticism, share this attitude, and see how it is escalated in a direction that cannot be accepted because it is far from in the interest of the people living there and, of course, cannot and cannot be in the interest of Austrian foreign policy? Mrs. Federal Minister! An answer to this is necessary and overdue. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Jung's contribution was not untypical. It is the classic tendency of militarization in foreign policy. It is precisely because Mr Jung is always clearly putting this in the foreground, I hope that the blue costume worn by you today, Mrs Federal Minister, is a tribute to the spring and not a sign of an external policy that is becoming more and more blue and more military, because that would be an Austrian disaster! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: That's white nonsense that you suck!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: "Empty nonsense" – isn't that an order call? I'm very surprised!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! In two previous speeches several times the post-Nizza process was addressed. It has also been complained several times, and this is rightly, the information deficit and the debate deficit on this issue. I can only join him. Its tradition of "smiling failure" with many long sentences – for example in the main committee – especially when it comes to European issues and concrete attitudes, cannot be continued because of the importance of the post-Nizza process. We need an institutionalized debate on the question of post-Nizza. We need an institutionalised process that needs to go far beyond what you mean by the word "platforms", because these platforms, Mrs. Federal Minister, also include a fair approach to each other and a fair invitation and information policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the replica to the previous speeches have It is a matter for Members to address the question of foreign cultural work several times, which is exactly what it is, we all need to know. Mrs Bundesminister, I can only return this question to you. They never tell us what these cultural forums are to do in the end, what they are concrete about, what tasks they are to carry out, what status the carriers of this cultural work will be in, and how this is really to be organized in detail. It will not be done here with a bold announcement, and it is not an adequate policy to bring opposition parties, who are quite prepared to work together on the post-Nizza process in the interest of Austria, to work together on a platform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! This requires a different way of dealing with information requests. I have been told by Mrs Lunacek Her answers to the questions she has asked have been reported, and unfortunately there was not much concrete to listen to very specific questions. Unfortunately, there has also been a deficit in some areas with which we cannot continue to work. In particular, there is a deficit – and I am therefore on a point that concerns the budget – in the area of East Environment policy, because East Environmental Assistance is threatened to fall below the wheels, because in one of the most important areas that are rightly believed by the Austrian population when it comes to the question of EU enlargement, no aid is provided, no cooperation of any kind or less and less. Mrs Glawischnig has also asked you a question on this matter, and I expect your answer to this question with great excitement. Perhaps you can already say today how you can imagine the further cooperation with our future neighbours, who are now increasingly present as partners. That's where it needs clarity. I also believe that the treatment of the post-Nizza process cannot lead to the launch of any platforms that are supposed to move through the country in the four-pack and convince people, but it will be more than necessary to find institutional cooperation within the main committee and to lead public debate on the post-Nizza process. It cannot be enough for you as a government party or for the opposition parties – and above all for the Greens – to be fed up with a vague promise to a post-nizza process, perhaps sometime before the debate on ratification begins. [[A group of Members of various political groups is talking about the content of the just distributed evening editions of daily newspapers.]] [[Lively cheerfulness.]] We need a new way of dealing with fundamental rights, with the question of the democratic deficit and with the same thing. We need clarity, and the post-Nizza process must be established before the debate can really go into a concrete stage. Mrs. Minister! You've announced a survey. You asked us why we don't know. – Very simple, and that was written to you at the conclusion in the main book: There was neither a detailed description nor an invitation from a survey by the Federal Chancellor. We can't do post-nizza policy with tags alone. But it will be necessary and, as I hope, it will dominate the debate next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15040	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15061	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The term "economics" is defined differently, for example: With the lowest resources or resources, the best possible way to achieve the most optimal. With our excellent, successful foreign minister, we also have an excellent business expert in terms of the budget, because the savings fund had to be set up at the foreign office too, but last year, the Minister of Foreign Affairs – and I am convinced that she will succeed in doing so this year – was able to handle the foreign policy and its tasks in the best possible way, despite the fewest means. I would therefore like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, and also your officials for this work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Austrian People's Party and I also welcome your special commitment in the Western Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a vital interest, it is the most vital security interest of Austria that Austria and the Austrian foreign policy are particularly involved in this area, because we all know: The Bosnia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania and the rest of Yugoslavia are a permanent powder vessel. Perhaps the mood is not burning so strongly at the moment, but it can start glowing at any time. Therefore, a commitment from the Austrian point of view is particularly necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is no one here in this House who does not welcome it if peace is safeguarded by peaceful means when everything is used to maintain peace in the Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen! But we must not, out of loud peace romance, shut ourselves down to reality either. We must not object to any refusal of reality. To exchange Kalashnikov's against peace-doves or swords against plowshares, that's a desirable goal, but that can't be a one-way road. Often the nationalists, the fanatics, the heated and heavily armed in the Balkans do not understand what it is all about. And for us, military intervention can only be the last means of securing peace. I think this is a credo of the whole Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! Even the Greens in Germany in the form of Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer said about military intervention in Kosovo to end the genocide. It was also the last means for Germany. Whether it was effective or not it has achieved all the goals, we do not know. We don't think so, but the murder has stopped. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a responsibility to those countries which are not currently directly in conflict, but which also have major problems, who are looking for help for Austria and say: Help us build up, give us your know-how, give us your interest! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now addressing Albania in concrete terms. After 50 years of isolation, after 50 years of communist dictatorship, this Republic too has enormous difficulty in finding its identity because of immeasurable suffering and economic difficulties of all sizes. People have been trying for ten years now, but it is difficult, and that is why it is also necessary to help them introduce democratic standards. There are parliamentary elections in Albania in June. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you to work to ensure that these parliamentary elections can be carried out in fair, free and proper manners. I would ask you to work to ensure that democratic elections are held there and that the now-appointed electoral commission, which is monocolor, will also decide objectively. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the challenges, and in this area the Federal Minister has done quite an excellent job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. A common approach to foreign policy has been called for today. – Yes, we want to, but last year, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, when it came to sanctions, we missed it! You have let the Foreign Ministers work on their own, and you have even called for, supported and supported the sanctions. I end – from this situation – with a four-liner. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] The sanctions are over the left not pleased at all in the ear I have the "three wise": Austria is a pattern boy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15111	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. – Before I give her the floor, I would like to express my absolute understanding that local reporting from Western Austria is of great interest to a tomorrow’s daily newspaper. However, I would think that comments and hypotheses should not take place too far here in the plenary room as far as possible. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15141	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! ==References== March at a press conference – and this time and again – emphasizes that one of the main guidelines of Austrian foreign policy highlights cooperation with international organisations, which is development cooperation and which will have great importance for solidarity in the future. If a budget is the policy put into figures, as is always claimed, then today you cannot be satisfied. Mrs. Minister! I ask you: How long have you been watching the international work of Austria starved? How long do you want to carry that? Mr Grossruck has spoken a lot about Albania here. But the East Aid has been greatly shortened by 80 million Schilling this year, by 10 million Schilling next year, despite the Balkan Stability Pact. And I know how urgently we would need this in the interests of our own country! Secondly, The contributions to international organisations were reduced by 20 million in the next year. I would like to give an example: The UNHCR, the United Nations refugee organization, has received 2.3 million dollars from Austria in 1999, received only more than 740 000 dollars in 2000, and will receive 9 million more schilling in 2002. Austria is on the 29th. Put the donor countries back down! That's impossible, Mrs. Foreign Minister! I'm just thinking about a million refugees from Afghanistan, Iran, in Pakistan waiting for help, and there's a party in Austria that doesn't want refugees, asylum seekers in Austria. But if we are not willing to spend money on the UNHCR, it is double-bedded, and I ask you to really do something here in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I have a quote here from our representative to the United Nations. Mr Pfanzelter writes on human rights programmes Austrian: However, there is an urgent need for action in this context for the completely inadequate voluntary Austrian contributions to the United Nations Human Rights Programme. This harmful look is in no relation to the usual Austrian human rights commitment. – So there are real problems in this area too. Mary Robinson resigns as High Commissioner, and I know that, of course, not only Austria goes back with the payments alone. The former Irish President now gives up because she does not receive financial and content support from the industrialized countries. This is not against them, but against those whom they have failed. Mrs. Minister! I am really with you when you say that we have to spend money on this international work, because global crises, whether climate deterioration, or migration problems, have an impact on Austria. Development cooperation: next year 15 million less. Today you presented an advertising campaign in a joint press conference with representatives of the three-king action. At this point I would really like to congratulate the star songs, they have collected 147 million schilling this year, I congratulate them entirely, very cordially. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens as well as the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Ulrike Lunacek has already mentioned it. By doing this together, you suggest to the Austrian people that they should donate even more. The Austrians show that they are very happy to donate, but I think the government has another task. It's about more than a charitable activity. It is precisely about the fact that the Austrian State at last fulfils the international mission of fulfilling this international obligation to achieve this 0.7 percent in development cooperation, so that a situation like in France finally arises in this area: France is back 50 percent of French development aid from the European Union. We too, I think, should come into this area. I also brought a Taferl today in order to show where Austria is located in the area of development cooperation. [[The speaker shows a diagram.]] The figures are from 1999 because there are no current figures from the OPSE for 2000. Austria was reported at 0.26 percent; in the previous year we came to 0.21 percent. This year, I suppose, we will be landing in a place in Spain, before Greece, and I think, given that Austria is the fourth or fifth largest country in the world, this is very embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A government that imposes such heavy burdens on the Austrian population has no heart for the poorest in this world either. I ask, however, if she does not have the heart, then at least she should have the mind because we know how important it is that something goes on at international level. I would like to give an example: President of the World Bank Wolfensohn. The World Bank has set itself the goal of halving poverty in 2015. Since the 1990s, the poor have become poorer and poorer, even with us. In 1990 there were still 32 dollars per head after Africa for development cooperation, with only 19 dollars in 1998. Again: It's not about alms. It's about new structures. It is about a new policy in this context. We are only giving back a fraction of what is being taken from these countries, whether through outflows of resources, or through cheap raw materials, or through debt services. UNDP has once calculated that about 50 million for development cooperation face 500 million dollars of outflow per year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a scandal! One more point. I think there is something to be done in this area too, and there will be a UN conference on development funding next year. Of course, we need to consider how to control the financial markets in the future, how to also drive the international corporations to pay taxes. One of the biggest problems is that three multimillionaires face 48 developing countries. And if your new brochure stands as an invitation to the Austrians – I have nothing against advertising campaigns, but I think that this could also be done by NGOs –: Don't nod, do it. I ask you, Mrs. Minister: Do something in your case as a minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15253	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15275	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The budget approaches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs show that this area also contributes to the renovation of our state budget, a contribution to achieving the zero deficit of this government. The development aid, Mrs Jäger, is of course not to be excluded. On a given occasion – two visits of Slovenian politicians are now not too long behind – I would also like to deal with the relationship between Austria and our southern neighboring country, Slovenia. The economic relations between the two states are very good. Slovenia also hopes to support our country in its way to the European Union. It goes without saying that Austrian foreign policy has contributed a great deal to Slovenia's accession to the state, to the recognition of its independence and sovereignty. The merits of former Foreign Minister Dr. Alois Mock for Slovenia and Croatia are known – at least in Agram, these achievements have not yet been forgotten. Whoever now believes it is in Austrian-Slovenian relations everything is in order, but is wrong. There are some problems that have not yet been solved and need to be solved. From similar good relations between Austria and Switzerland, we are still quite far between Austria and Slovenia. I recall that our minority in Slovenia does not enjoy the same constitutional protection as the Italian or Hungarian minority in Slovenia. The Slovenians have not yet signed the Cultural Agreement, but they will hopefully soon sign it. But that can only be a first step. The question of compensation for displaced persons from the former Yugoslavia is also unsolved. Interestingly, the new Slovenian Foreign Minister Rupel calls for war repairs from Austria. The "Small Newspaper", ladies and gentlemen, has brought the Austrian-Slovenian relationship to the fore a few days ago, as I mean. The "Small Newspaper" has entitled: War altlast as a stumbling block – AVNOJ decisions disturb Vienna-Visit of the Slovenian Prime Minister. And in fact, it must trigger strangers that in a democratic state, to which Slovenia has now developed, eviction and expropriation laws are defended as persistently and are still acting as sustainable in the legal system as they are today in Slovenia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Slovenian politicians like President Kucan explain to the communist AVNOJ laws that these are just as meaningful as the Austrian State Treaty, then ladies and gentlemen, this comparison is actually an intolerable provocation, because the Austrian State Treaty – and we all know that – does not contain any provision that would legalize mass murder and expulsion, that is, crimes against humanity. [[Abg. Zweytick: High time for him to go!]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Zweytick.]] I therefore expressly share the view of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that some Slovenian politicians are hardly able to cover their communist past. [[New condolences with the liberals as well as the abg. Zweytick.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The AVNOJ laws not only directed against the German minority in the former Yugoslavia: The decisions of the Tito-Partisans also laid the ground for mass murder on the Slovenian Dombranzen, on the royal Serbian Chetniks, but also on the Croats. The AVNOJ laws are thus a terrible testimony to a Slovenian and Yugoslav civil war. In Slovenia, however, there are not only politicians and journalists who stand out through their anti-Austrian complexes, there is also the other, the democratic Slovenia. This includes certain politicians, clergymen and artists from Marburg, as well as the representatives of the association of former prisoners in Liège. It is they who clean up with the old partisan myth and help the historical truth to break through. However, until these forces can be majority, it is important that Mrs. Federal Minister, the Austrian interests – and this also includes the interests of the displaced people – be strongly represented. It must be clarified: If there is no bilateral agreement on the crucial issues, we must not hesitate to take up the Slovenian Foreign Minister's proposal and internationalise the problem of the AVNOJ legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15333	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15355	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Austria has been very committed and involved in the Stability Pact in South-East Europe, which was established two years ago, and has also received praise and recognition for it. If you look at the budget for the next year, many will probably review the praise for the ideas and announcements. The countries of the region are not only in part frustrated by the rather slow progress of the projects, they are particularly concerned about the continuation of these projects. So called "Quick Projects" have been running, but now it's about something else: It is about continuity, so that these projects also have longer-term effects, and, as mentioned several times today, it is also about Austria's reputation and the confidence that can be placed in Austria's reliability as a partner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this confidence in Austria and the reputation of Austria seem to me to be very much at risk if the statements of intent are to be compared with the funds for the East Aid. These funds have been gradually reduced in recent years. Last year the situation was not rosy, and this year it may be called sad. After the removal of the excess drugs and a reduction of the fixum of all 20 percent, only very little is available for the east aid. This is a financial hit, but not only that, it's also a blow to the face of the poorest in Europe, and it's also an own-initiative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is an owner for example for the following reasons: Environmental projects will also be carried out via the Eastern assistance, which, as is so beautiful in a wonderful brochure, serve to ensure long-term measures, to improve human living conditions. It is to be feared that in addition to these environmental projects, further East Aid measures will once again fall victim to the blue-black slump, including Austria's suffering very much, in the field of education. I quote again from this brochure: Osthilfe, a means of modernising the education process, modernising the training structure and pre-adjusting educational institutions in South-East Europe to EU standards. – Austria even wanted to focus on this, but if I think about the education policy that is currently being carried out with us, it seems to me more of a threat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria has, of course, had a high interest in successful economic and stable democratic development over the last ten years as a direct neighbour of the reform states of Central and Eastern Europe, and has shown commitment here. Considering the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, where for the first time reform forces in the government really have the vision of a multiethnic state, one must see that cuts in this area are really a serious mistake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The area is still a potential area of conflict. And if you, Mrs Minister, say that the Balkans is a priority, and stress that development work means securing the future, I wonder: Where are the perspectives? Where are the priorities you want to set? What concepts do you follow? The concept is: 2002 less and 2003 no more Easter aid? – I think that would be a real mistake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Instability doesn't stop outside our border. Possible areas of problem must be combated at their social, political and economic roots. We have a proven means of doing this, namely the aid of the East. Prevention, ladies and gentlemen, is in demand, then the intervention is spared! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So their statements are obviously lip confessions or soap bubbles. The slogan "speed kills" has already come true, and what the "last acts speak!" We are still waiting for this. The budgetary consultations bring it to light: a large reduction in expenditure on development cooperation, for East Aid and minimum contributions for international organisations – and that, although we already belong to the final lights. It will be much worse next year, as Mr Jäger pointed out. Mrs. Minister! The reputation of Austria as a reliable partner is at risk. I think solidarity is more than just a struggle with NATO. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15456	Mrs Gatterer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15477	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I believe that everyone who has pursued foreign policy has also heard that last year's Mrs. Foreign Minister and her great team had almost the hardest year in foreign policy, through EU sanctions, through OSCE Presidency and through many other preparatory work, and I believe that the budget debate is also a good reason to thank you, Mrs Foreign Minister, and your team for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that all foreign politicians as well as the other politicians are in pain when it comes to this particular area – this applies to all areas of foreign policy, and, of course, to Eastern aid and to development cooperation – but all the ministers have come to know that we need a zero deficit, that we have to get rid of the debt burden, and that also in these areas at the moment, we have to take action and take something back. I would like to address the strategic partnership once again, because today, in the debate, you have basically agreed on everything to the Minister, even that she has a heart. If you look at the ranking of politicians, I think the Austrians have come to realize very well that our foreign minister is a woman with great competence, with a lot of commitment, with a lot of work, but above all with a lot of heart. I mean, that's what you have to admit to her. You can't agree with her. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the very good proposal of the strategic partnership also shows heart to the neighbors. There are four applicants in close proximity to Austria, and Austria has an external border of 1 300 kilometres to these new candidate countries. In my opinion, this is something that basically supports Mrs Foreign Minister's approach. They should make every effort to support this strategic partnership programme. Why should it be too late? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's never too late!]] First of all, it's never too late, and I think Austria has already shown this under Minister Mock, you can certainly remember the picture. – They mean "too late" because we all want to be "external politicians" today, and finally want to "outside" to say it in Carinthian. That's true, too. In any case, in 1989 Minister Mock not only cut the barbed wire on the iron curtain, as you know, but he was actually the first great European politician to fully seek to integrate these new countries. This has been done by the Austrian People's Party as a European Party. I believe that precisely with the strategic partnership model, we are in the best way to continue these efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15531	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15552	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As an OSCE election observer, I was allowed to visit Yugoslavia at the 2000 Christmas Day. I was able to talk to the people and personally take a picture of the situation. When a few months before the Presidential elections had passed by police and soldiers of the Milošević regime to the demonstrators, Parliament was burned and the television station was stormed, Europe, indeed, was breathing the whole world. The withdrawal of the dictator was the beginning of another Yugoslavia. Christmas 2000 means a new beginning for Yugoslavia with all its hopes, but also the scepticism of the enormous difficulties and challenges facing our European neighbours. The newly elected Prime Minister Zoran Djindjić has assumed responsibility in a country that has little in common with Western democracies. For 13 years Yugoslavia was ruled by arsons and fireheads, by murderers and puppets of Milošević. All the more difficult, yes, are the tasks that Zoran Djindjić and his government face. After 13 years of this Milošević leadership, Yugoslavia is on the ground in every respect. In the state of deepest poverty, economic reforms must be started. The injustice system of a dictatorship must turn away from a democratic rule of law. The processing of own debt to the tragedies in Yugoslavia must also be started. But, ladies and gentlemen, the reputation of Djindjić today in Germany and abroad gives him and Yugoslavia a great opportunity to do so. The inclusion of Yugoslavia in many international organizations was mainly aimed at preventing the country from being isolated and at preventing a fall in Milošević's policy of isolation for more than a decade. Moreover, the people of Yugoslavia should be shown that the West, with its economic embargo against Belgrade and lastly with the NATO bomb war, wanted to meet not the people of Yugoslavia, but the criminal regime. After this criminal regime has finally been overthrown by democratic elections, it is now up to the Yugoslavs to push the door to Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, has made progress in Yugoslavia. The West defamated yesterday as an enemy of the people has become an ally. The reforms have also begun inside. Yugoslavia must not give up hope. It will really be a big part of us to keep this hope alive and to give the people and the new nation the help they simply need. If today – I have seen and experienced this myself – you drive through cities and villages, where along the streets one decomposed and rotten industrial combination solves the other, and get to know the misery and poverty of people, then you can see how necessary help and support are. It's clear, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Wealth within a few years is not possible; improve the quality of life already. I also got the impression that the population is ready to contribute to the new beginning with patience, but also in hard work. At present, there is only one third of the population of work. The social, educational and health systems are on the ground. Yugoslavia needs financial assistance, support through professionals and development concepts. Ladies and gentlemen! Yugoslavia and Zoran Djindjić need our help. We must not lean back comfortably and leave people to themselves. We need to help them today to have a future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not, then there are similar conflicts to those in Macedonia. Perhaps many will say that there are other causes that conflict between nationalities is the cause. I think that the cause of violent conflict between the ethnic groups is usually the same, namely deep poverty. Minister! In the past – I really welcomed this – they stressed the importance of civil crisis management and suggested that Austria should focus on this. All the more incomprehensible to me now is your call for military intervention in the Macedonia conflict. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Her proposal, Minister-in-Office of the Council, has not been approved in the EU. NATO Secretary-General Robertson also vehemently rejected him. Experts such as the UN Commissioner for Bosnia, Wolfgang Petritsch, warned explicitly that it would be too early to think about an extension of the KFOR mandate. Petritic to the "Time" magazine – I may quote here –: We must not fall into the trap and overreact to this question. We must not follow the strategy of the rebels aimed at extending the conflict. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! This assessment is also shared in the EU and is aimed at de-escalation. If today the Federal Government reduces the funds for the East Aid, then it robs people of hope, then it takes the children the chance of a better future. Yes, it takes them in particular the chance of lasting peace between the peoples of the Balkans. Madam Minister, I ask you: Give the Balkans, Yugoslavia a chance! Support the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15662	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15683	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The hurt vanity of some of the SPÖ's speakers on the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which would be a serious issue in her foreign policy, is not in place. In her contribution, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made an impressive statement on her policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This government sets forward-looking trends in key areas, including in the debate on the new Security Doctor. In close cooperation between Foreign Minister, Chancellor and Minister for Defence, we will set up a subcommittee composed of representatives of the Foreign Policy Committee and the National Defence Committee, and you, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition will be invited to discuss this issue with us. After years of figurine policy, we believe that it is finally time for the security interests of Austria to be clearly explained, and this will be done in connection with this security doctor. These vital interests of Austria include, in addition to others, the following points: Ensuring our territorial integrity, the protection of the rule of law, democratic constitution and internal security, the security of economic interests, the perception of the interests of Austria in the EU and the enforcement of the Union's interests in the global area, as well as the protection and promotion of fundamental values. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The strategic objectives can then be derived from these security interests of Austria. The main point here is to prevent the emergence of risks and threats to the continent and to increase European responsibility for peace and security. Dec It is also important to force the development of efficient civil and military capacity and resources for a credible European security policy. This new Security Doctor, ladies and gentlemen, creates the basis for the new European solidarity. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially you from the SPÖ! You are invited to remember your previous European policy and to discuss with us the draft of the analysis section of the new Security Doctrine consistently and, as I hope, without any doubt.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15746	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15768	Mr President. High house! I would like to address some of the questions once again: firstly, the question of East Aid and, of course, the international organizations. Of course it also hurts me if I have to cut my budget, because I would very much like to spend much more, especially in the East Aid, but also in the international organisations. But, of course, I also fully support a reduction in this budget deficit, because we can only work well with a debt-free budget in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Free and Bravo Ruff at the ÖVP.]] It is therefore right that the UNHCR budget should also be reduced in 2002. But one must also see: In addition to the contributions to the administrative budget, a number of other contributions have always been made, such as more than 5.5 million in 2000 in addition to a mine programme in Kosovo. Other projects were emergency relief measures by the Federal Government, which were carried out through the UNHCR, JPO programmes amounting to 1.8 million and so on. I also have the same thing in the current year. For example, I imagine making similar programmes in Serbia. - That's one. The other thing: As far as East aid is concerned, I would like to tell you that, above all, the problem is that in recent years, the East Aid, in which it had not been part of my department, has been financed by overrun powers, rather than a clear financing solution, and that it has not actually been fully implemented. Now I have taken over the East Aid Agendas and I am affected by a half-hearted financing solution that has now also had an impact. – You have to say that too. In addition, the question should be asked: What alternative would we have? – We could have cut down more in bilateral development cooperation. You'd have wanted that less. - Me too. That's why you just have to go the way I've gone, but very careful. This meant, in particular, that in my own home, I have also greatly reduced the expenditure on facilities, so that sometime in the future we will have to increase the funds for all the repairs and plant improvements, so that we can achieve a balance here. A third point raised in the discussion concerns the concreteisation of the strategic partnership: Please, this concreteization is exactly the one on the 6th. In June, a regional conference will be held, because it is not a Completely prefabricated package, but it is a conscious initiative with proposals that have been launched by me, in which, of course, the other partners as equal partners – that is, partnership – should bring their ideas in. This is also very much seen by colleagues. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Secondly, on the platform: Through the platform you will be more on the 6th. On April 1, when I will present her, along with Mrs Vice-Chancellor and the Ambassador for the European Commission in Vienna, I am going to present her. Then you will be informed exactly about the details, and that is very soon. Finally, I would like to focus on the criteria which have been set out in the strategic partnership: Clearly, the criteria are that these are the candidate countries! Let me mention Croatia as an example: I know that Croatia has an interest in being a close neighbour, but Croatia is not yet a candidate. If you see my concept logically – and it is a logical concept – then it is about the fact that, as soon as the candidate countries are in the Union – probably from 2004 onwards, they will, of course, form a group with us, each meeting once a half-yearly before the great European Council to vote on the positions. This will not always be the common position, but at least one will know the positions, and very often it will become a common position. I'm convinced of that. The Luxembourg Foreign Minister, when she was here the other day, said that it is a matter of course in the Union to go into such alliances, as do the Benelux countries. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Where are the common interests?]] Last point – very briefly on the question of Yugoslavia and Macedonia, KFOR. I've already said twice: A diplomatic-political initiative has already been taken by the Union. Of course, all of us have not only contributed to this, but have long debated and decided. But you have to think beyond that, and you know that the situation is still not deficient today. It is provisionally depleted, and hopefully this solution is sufficient. There has also been a strengthening of the KFOR troops at the borders. But at the moment one has just helped to support Macedonia elsewhere, bilaterally military. Everyone knows that Macedonia has a very weak army and itself, alone, is unable to help without help. That was the reason for my incitement, and in the United Nations Security Council there is now also a resolution that goes very clearly in this direction. Let's hope we don't need any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15831	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15852	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now the third time that I have been standing here and, in particular, I want to lose a few words on the budget of bilateral development cooperation, and for the third time I have to say, I am glad that the permanent downward trend, as it has dominated many years in this area, is half-stopped, but on the other hand, as well as you, ladies, I am not satisfied with the status quo. [[Abg. Jäger: Please! Stay on the floor of the truth!]] I believe – and I appeal to all the Members of this House in this respect – that from next year there must be more money for bilateral development cooperation again. As a rich country, I think we are simply guilty of the poorest people in this world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I still have to deal with a few points. Mrs. Jäger! Mrs. Lunacek! If you say that there has been a decrease of 12 percent compared to the success of 2000, I must tell you that is a comparison of apples with pears. But you can only compare apples with apples and pears with pears. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we take the 2000 proposal, then it is not. They compare the suggestion with success, and that is simply not allowed. I am sure that, as there was a little more money in 2000 than originally planned, this will also be the case for the next two years, i.e. for 2001 and 2002. - That's what it's about. If you also say that you are making an advertising campaign in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the expense of the teaching of NGOs, I must resist this: I think it is incredibly important that awareness of how essential development cooperation is and must be for all of us is heightened and deepened in the population too. This justifys us as representatives of the population that we allocate more resources to this area. For this reason, I think it is very important to make a statement here at last, and I expressly thank Mrs Federal Minister Ferrero-Waldner for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you also look at the brochures related to this public campaign, you will see that there is express reference here to the "South Wind" agency and to many other excellent institutions. This is not an information campaign for self-interest, but something that will ultimately benefit the NGOs and the poorest people of the world. I'm convinced of that. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also close my remarks and hope that the Minister of Finance has also heard our joint appeal for more funding for the bilateral EZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15909	Mrs Mag. Hartinger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e15959	Mr President. Minister! In As part of the enlargement of the EU, there are many requirements for Austrian policy, including health policy. Please allow me to address this particular issue very briefly today. In terms of health policy, it is necessary, in view of the particular geopolitical situation of Austria, to maintain intensive contact, in particular with the candidate countries, but also with the Eastern European countries. Both our Secretary of State and our Secretary of State maintain these contacts. For example, our Secretary of State Waneck has visited his colleagues in Poland and Slovakia since he took office. In its comments on the enlargement process, the Committee noted in particular the following points. First: The health resort is at any time ready to provide its knowledge in the form of exchange of experience. Secondly, According to the general government, there was also a certain restraint in the health field with regard to labour markets in the eastern border regions. Third, it was found that health policy assumes that on entry into the European Union, each candidate has fully implemented the negotiating chapter 13 – i.e. the social chapter including health. Ladies and gentlemen! You see: The tasks related to EU enlargement are diverse. They also concern health. But our government is thinking in a holistic way and is taking on things where others are talking first.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e16003	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e16024	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just three years ago, the European Union started the accession negotiations with the new candidate countries. Europe has thus launched a project that is of particular importance to our country. The neighbouring countries will become partners in the internal market. Our kind of neighborhood gets a new dimension. It is clear to us that our cohabitation will change. It is also clear to us that not only our neighbors, but we also need to learn a lot about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Bridges between East and West are to be built, roads for economy and prosperity, and not only in the transferred sense. Within the vicinity of Vienna there are cities such as Hollabrunn, Wiener Neustadt, Tulln or Korneuburg, and all of these cities are connected with very good transport connections. [[Abg. May. Posch: What does this have to do with foreign policy?]] This is in line with the mobility needs of our time. Vienna and Bratislava are connected by a road leading through the Hainburg Gate, which corresponds to the mobility requirement of the 16th century. Century – a fact that needs to be changed and should be treated by another resort in the near future. In any case, we are concerned that, within the framework of the short budgets, we will focus on the development of transport in the eastern region, because Slovakia, in particular, had a difficult start to find democracy. [[Abg. May. Posch: A tram to Bratislava!]] It therefore needs our support in particular. We must make every effort to ensure that this enlargement is a success project, and we must pay close attention to four points. The first point is: All talks must be done in the eye and without knowledge and foresight. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: They're claping so they can notice!]] It is not a question of leaving traces behind – especially good traces mostly the big tracks – but it is about really getting into a good conversation with the neighbors. Secondly, The agreed objective must not be lost sight of. It is about the four freedoms being taken over. But it also concerns us that compliance with the safety standards, compliance with the hygiene and environmental standards and from the point of view of agriculture are guaranteed full involvement in the market order. These are difficult questions that still need to be clarified, and I am sure that our Mrs Foreign Minister, who is well-known for this, will find constructive solutions with her recognised strength. I fully agree that the negotiations will be a good result. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third essential point is that we need to cooperate in good time and to provide assistance that patience and greater debate are necessary. The fourth point: It is important that there is a well-planned transition phase, a transition phase in which what has been said – increased aid for border regions and transition phases for labour market mobility – is properly planned and implemented. – This was also provided at the Nice Summit. Of course, EU enlargement will bring problems, but it will also open up great opportunities for Austria. That is why I ask all of you: Taking advantage of opportunities requires inner willingness, good courage and hard work. We must encourage people to do this – and that is the primary task of all the parties in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e16109	Mr Bruckmann is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e16139	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is not too often that I go to this speaker's desk with as much joy as I am now. 42 years ago, in a particularly difficult period of South Tyrol, when the violent Italian assimilation policy had reached a new climax, with a youth choir, I moved through South Tyrol for ten days and each evening we gave a choir concert in another village where we sang our folk songs to show the population there that it will not only be forgotten by the official Austria, but also by the simple people – a solo ride that has remained unforgettable to me and from which I would like to quote a stringlight. [[Abg. May. Posch: Was there also the khol?]] In Taufers, a farmer's boy told us at the time: In the school’s frog’n se us: "Che paese è questo?" (What country is this?) After me: "E Italia, ma terra no sch tra!" – and the megden se gor net! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] At that time we could not hope for a time when the problem of South Tyrol will already be outraged because Austria and Italy will be united in a common European Union and the borders between the two countries will be removed. Let me expressly say, ladies and gentlemen, that the great successes of the Austrian South Tyrol policy over the past four decades were not least based on the fact that this policy could be held out of the party dispute and that, regardless of the respective composition of the Austrian Federal Government, it was consensually a homage also towards opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My great pleasure today is that this successful South Tyrol policy under the ministership of Benita Ferrero-Waldner could set new milestones. Let me take one out, namely, the one – and many of you will not yet know – that on 28 November. A Constitutional Reform Act was approved by the Italian Chamber of Deputies on February 1, this year, which abolished the obligation to approve South Tyrol state laws by Rome and for the first time incorporated the German name "South Tyrol" into the Italian Constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! This is far more than a mere outwardity. Our joy, however, may not lead us to dream; Austria will continue to have to be aware of its defence function. I would just like to point out the question to be resolved in the near future, whether it might be possible to reduce the four-year occupation obligation, in the package with a transfer of further school skills from the state to the country of South Tyrol. Allow me to conclude a statement on the debate on foreign policy, where I am aware that I am moving towards an extremely delicate terrain. Since 1806, the dream of the Empire has never been silent in Austria. In 1919, the National Council declared that Germany is part of the German Republic, and in 1938, Theodor Innitzer and Karl Renner called for "Yes". High house! For me, one of the most important consequences of the creation of the European Union is the fact that this traumatic issue has become unrelenting, there is no longer any longer, simply because we are united with all the other EU countries as well as with Germany, and that Austria, as a member of the European Union, can therefore go into its future as a member of this psychological burden that has been burdened before us generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e16224	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the Advisory Group III of the Federal Proposal for 2002. This includes Chapter 20 of the Federal Estimate in 500 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Application pursuant to § 53 para. 8 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e16265	It is my request that the negotiations on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2002 should be conducted, together with investments in accordance with § 53 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure with a view to initiating a meeting to negotiate other matters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a renunciation. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-03-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00064_d7e16300	I am still announcing that the present meeting of the Self-Employed Amendment 414/A (E) has been brought in. Questions 2248/J to 2259/J were also raised. I call the next meeting of the National Council for Monday, 2nd. ==References====External links== The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. – There is no Question Time at this part-session. Today's sitting is closed.
