ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4180	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take the places. I'll open the 55. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 9 a.m. The Official Protocol of the 54. Meeting of 18 March 1990 January has remained in the Parliament's management and without opposition; it is therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Schweisgut and Ing. Maderthaner. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4217	I am told by the Federal Election Authority that Mr Harald Fischl has renounced his mandate and that Mrs Evelyn Freigaßner has been appointed to the National Council in his place. The electorate is present, and as I am told, the person is present in the house, so that I will make the fishing immediately. I may ask Mrs. Annemarie Reitsamer to read the vow formula. The new mandate will then come with the words "I vow" to do their fishing. I'm allowed to ask Mrs. Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4247	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4262	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4278	I warmly welcome the new colleague in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4305	Mrs Petrovic spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4326	Mr President. My objections and the request are also available in writing. The Greens call for the decommissioning of Agenda items 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. This concerns the regulation on the media, especially the regulation on the "Comustria" because we believe that this is not yet ready for decision and needs a serious debate in a subcommittee. I would ask you to hold a brief debate on this request after the current hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4357	Ladies and gentlemen! You heard the objections. If the President does not accede to the objections, the National Council will have to hold a debate. In accordance with our previous practice, the debate will be conducted after an hour or after a question time so that the time order does not get confused. I make use of the possibility, according to § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, to limit speaking time to 5 minutes in the debate. The maximum number of speakers per group would be three, but should not be exhausted. There are no further objections? . The debate on several objections could be held together. The debate will therefore take place after the current hour. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4390	We're coming up to date now. Hour with the theme: "Blue-black predatory construction on education quality" The first is the statement by a representative of the applicant group at a speaking time of 10 minutes. – Mr Dieter Brosz, you have the floor. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4423	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Greens have today chosen the topic of education policy in the light of a development which would also have allowed other topics for a current hour, and we have also chosen a very sharp title: We are talking about the "construction" of this federal government in education quality. In this House, decisions were taken with the budget accompanying legislation, with the financial compensation - not by our group, but by you, unfortunately also with the approval of the Socialist Group - which in Austria, according to careful estimates, will be reduced by the end of this legislative period to 7 000 teachers' jobs. And if the Federal Government makes its announcement of freezing staff costs, then it is about a few thousand more posts. There are 12 000 posts in this context. You have to imagine that! This is a tenth of the Austrian teachers to be dismantled in the next few years. We consider this to be an absolute robbery of the quality of education! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] These agreements – and this is what really bothered me in the past – have always been presented by the government groups – unfortunately also by you, Mrs. Federal Minister – as if they were privileges for teachers. - We don't see it that way at all. And I also have to tell you that your current criticism of the spread of misinformation here and the panic is absolutely unbearable from our point of view. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: We will prove it!]] Real achievements in education policy and quality of education are at risk in Austria. It is in Vienna, among other things, about mother tongue teaching. Mr Schweitzer of the Liberal Group, you know what we are talking about. You know that in your election campaigns in Vienna you have made a massive mood against integration measures, against mother tongue teaching and against its sensuality. That's exactly what's at risk! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We had 2 000 posts – Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you very specifically – dedicated to specific measures in the area of integration. Where are these posts when what is to come true? These additional posts and support measures will no longer be available; they will be included in the normal number of hours. What's going to happen is clear: Normal teaching, which cannot be changed, will continue to take place; that is clear now. You can talk about "Panikmache" as you want – we look at what the experts in the countries say. For example, look at what is passed on to the schools in Vienna's regional school inspector Weidinger; he is responsible for compulsory schools in Vienna. You can't accuse us that we'd do "panikmache" if the figures were presented by those responsible. Weidinger says that in Vienna next year up to 1 000 posts must be saved; in this legislative period up to 1 500. – These are facts! It also affects integration – and especially in the field of disability policy, it is irresponsibly shortened. This is about cuts by half, by two thirds, and that is irresponsible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since you're always talking about "Panikmache": We also receive specific cases. There are announcements in Lower Austria about what will happen in folk schools. I can also mention the specific cases. There are to be grouped together, not just parallel classes. The third and fourth classes are to be grouped together, because one or two pupils are missing because the corresponding numbers of students are not given. And even in cases where it is foreseeable that the number of students will be back next year, in the next year, the structure will be attacked: Teachers will be reduced, they will no longer be in schools. Third-class, fourth-class. – This reminds me of times long past. Of course, one could talk about pedagogical concepts, but that is not the point. For reasons of savings, class communities are destroyed, teachers are put on the street. I wonder, What education policy is that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us look at the situation in different areas, for example in special schools. There the effects are particularly dramatic, because there is not only a teacher in integration classes, in classes with the disabled, with the severely disabled, but also additional teachers to support these classes. These teachers will no longer receive additional services – this is already known in Vienna – and this will result in no longer being present in all hours, where the severely disabled are in the relevant class, an integration teacher. I'm asking you, I'm asking the experts: Do you take responsibility for this situation? Do you take responsibility if, for example, something happens there for health reasons? - I don't think so. I think the teachers will be left in the rain. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After you are certainly following the situation in Germany, you know what is happening in Germany. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In Germany, there was a similar situation in the countries: There, posts have been reduced in large numbers – and this has resulted in a decrease in the number of students, of course. There were very low prospects for a job, and the result is that teachers are already being recruited in Germany. The federal states recruit each other teachers. There is an obvious lack of teachers. This situation will also exist in Austria in the foreseeable future. They know it from the HTL area, from the field of technology training. Just where you are talking about the need to invest, we have the problem that the training places cannot be made available because there is a lack of teachers. This lack exists, among other things, because you are still unable to implement what has been announced for a long time, namely a different salary system with higher incomes. If you do not manage to make the teacher service so attractive that teachers also come back to schools, and if you do not succeed in making teachers who are now leaving such offers that they should not return with 10 000 s less, then you will be facing this situation in two, three years, from me in five years. I'm just wondering if you want to do that and whether you really know that to this extent. [[Abg. Grossruck: The woman minister is more aware than you believe!]] Now, in brief, what we are imagining. – What do higher schooling numbers have to do with modern teaching? It is quite clear – and I have heard this from you very much; I share your view – that at a time when knowledge is growing very quickly, other ways must also go. Progress must be made in the field of knowledge management, other competences must also be promoted, such as social skills. It is not so much about detailed knowledge at all, but above all it is also about an attractive foreign language teaching. And precisely in this situation, the Federal Government, especially its colleagues from the FPÖ, increases the number of school students. This has relatively little prospect of success. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How are they on the international stage?]] Interestingly, the only ones who agree with you are the trade unions. That's something that's pretty surprising to me. You say the teachers are panicking, the students are panicking, the parents are panicking, all are panicking, all are running through the area – only with the trade unions have you united. There is a model, an annual working standard model on which teachers will vote next week, which is interesting – it is less interesting that the Christian trade unionists vote in favour of it – also the social-democratic trade unionists are quite positive. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Alois Denk!]] With this annual labour standard model, the savings targets of the Federal Government are to be implemented one too one. I wonder, What is the background, what is the reason why a trade union agrees to implement a savings package of 2 billion schilling? That would really interest me. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who is Alois thinking?]] The consequences – the reduction of teachers – cannot be prevented. The number of students will still rise. And one point seems to me to be very important in this context, namely the procedure in which this vote will begin on Friday. There is a poll, which offers exactly two possibilities: Teachers may agree to this model of the union – 2 billion schilling in savings – or they may agree to the budget accompanying laws – 2 billion schilling in savings. I think it is an impossibility for a union to present two variants to those concerned, where both are to be recast. This vote is deeply undemocratic, there should no longer be any such thing today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't think the chance has yet been completely rejected, Mrs. Minister. They have also announced to the union that these budget accompanying laws could still be reversed until the start of the school. But they say: only if it is cost-neutral. I ask you to: Take back these measures! Take back the increase in the number of students! Return to an educational policy that secures the future of Austria in the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4583	Ms Gehrer spoke on the subject of this current hour. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4605	Mr President. High house! I say at the beginning, sometimes something is drawn into an election campaign, which does not belong there, namely the school. The school doesn't belong to an election campaign! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] School is too important to be used to beat party-political change. Especially in this area you are quickly unsure. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My predecessor, Mr Brosz, claimed that 12,000 posts would be deleted from compulsory school teachers. [[Abg. Oils: 12 000 he didn't say!]] I notice: That's not true! That's not true! There is an agreement between the Heads of State and the Minister of Finance, that the principles of sparingness, economics and the safeguarding of the highest quality are also being pursued in the field of compulsory school teachers. And this is the task of responsible politicians: to deal with taxpayers sparingly, but to ensure quality in the school sector. And this is done with this financial compensation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you look at this financial compensation, you will see that there is a target in 2005: a teacher for ten primary students, a teacher for nine polytechnic students, a teacher for 14.5 pupils and a teacher for 3.2 special students. With these ratios, we are in the leading field in Europe – in the leading field! And I'm clear: With 3.2 students coming to a special school teacher, all requirements for children with special needs are assured. One integration group has four pupils, for which a teacher is assigned. A severely handicapped class can have up to eight students; for this two teachers are assigned. A normal special school class has 16 pupils, for which four teachers are assigned. All support offers, all the needs can be met. In Vienna, special attention is given to the health schools, for I want to see special care given to those children who are sick in these hospitals. There will be no cuts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at the budget: There has been an increase of 7.4 billion schilling throughout the education sector! Where's there a drop in education? We see that in international studies Austria is in the leading field in terms of expenditure per student. We spend 50 percent more on a popular student than is usual in the OECD section. In the OECD section 3 800 dollars are spent on a folk student, 6 258 dollars are spent on a folk student in Austria. So that's at least 50 percent more than the OECD cut. Please don't talk about a "reduction"! Now I come to the subject of 'insurance'. – Mr Brosz, you have claimed that I would say again and again, teachers are panicking, parents are panicking. - I'm not saying that. I say that on the basis of short-term electoral considerations, some politicians bring uncertainty and fear into schools. And I reject that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But if you do not want to believe me, I ask you to believe the President of the City School Council Dr. Scholz and the City School Council in Vienna, which yesterday clearly stated: It's a panic. It's a scam in the city council. President Scholz assures that the offer remains in Vienna's schools, such as afternoon care, disability integration and measures in the foreign sector. The speaker of the Vienna City School Council also said: Now, in the worst case, there should be a saving of 500 posts. That's what we can live with. Then only the internal administrative structure is affected, and per class the number of students increases by one. – The low average number of students can rise by a maximum of one. That is why I state clearly: The schools, primary schools, polytechnic schools and special schools in Austria offer high-quality lessons with highly trained teachers. The sufficient budget is secured by a responsible budgetary policy, which is the priority of responsibility. The parents in Austria can rely on our compulsory schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4701	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now entering the debate. The speaking time for all participants in this debate is 5 minutes each. The first speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4729	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If, in these days and in fact, during the last weeks and months, events, rallys, signature actions, service meetings and so on take place on educational problems, this is certainly a proof of how seriously the Austrian population takes education in general. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It is certainly not the opposition, but your education policy, that is to say, to blame for these uncertainties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Social Democrats share the concerns, fears and uncertainties of those concerned. Regrettably, however, take They do not concern the teachers, the concerns of the pupils, but also the concerns of the parents to the extent necessary. Teachers are insecure, teachers are angry. And when these things come to the surface in protests and service meetings, I have to say that the SPÖ is on the side of those affected. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What "things"?]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have left the way of a consensus policy in the field of education. You're going the way of confrontation. I say to you that during this legislative period, if this development does not change, it will lead to educational downturns in Austria. Your policy, your turnaround policy has led to the excellent international reputation of our education in recent decades. This was different among social-democratic German Chancellors and finance ministers; there was investment in education. Let me give you a few basic examples: Over the past 30 years, the number of teachers has increased from 68 000 to 125 000. That's twice as much. The number of pupils in the general education and training schools, i.e. in schools leading to the matura, has increased from 172 000 to 306,000. A huge achievement! The number of students at universities and colleges rose from 53 000 to 238,000, four times as many, ladies and gentlemen. Under social-democratic government responsibility, at least one higher school was built in all the political districts of Austria; the number of these schools rose from 414 to 667. There is no federal state in Austria where there is not a university, a university or educational academy. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has really invested a lot in education so far. We therefore have excellently trained people: Teachers, professors, doctors, scientists, researchers. And what do you say about these achievements? – They stand up in an absolutely unqualified way and speak of the "debt policy of the SPÖ". The Austrians should know that you regret that the social democratically-led federal governments have invested in education! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Free access to education in schools, universities, academies, free schoolbooks, free school travel and home support are among the most important family and education policies of SPÖ governments. These were crucial contributions to equal opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you are now systematically questioning these social democratic achievements. All of a sudden, it's supposed to be different. Your budget-accompanied laws, your tuition fees, your new student and teacher relationships clearly indicate that this government is beginning to adopt the responsibility and commitment to guarantee Austrian youth a free education. – That, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrians did not want to do so, you did not receive the votes of the Austrians at the last National Council election! [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your imaginative reduction policy will have negative consequences in the field of education.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4791	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4807	Class numbers will rise, additional offers will be dramatically reduced, and the quality of Austrian education will decrease. The Austrian youth, but also the economic location Austria, is doing a very, very bad job.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4837	Next, Mrs. Dr. Brinek will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4858	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! To my previous speaker, I would like to make a brief comment: Teacher and teacher care is also taken seriously by this government. But our maxim is not only to take concerns seriously, but to offer solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I should like to express my concern to Mr Brosz and to give him some further help on the number of students. Despite a total increase in the number of students, the maximum number of students has not changed in recent years. This is constantly at an average of 25, although the number of pupils in vocational and middle secondary schools has increased by 36 percent in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who can believe this!]] It is also to be considered – in the sense of careful use of means of taxation – that the lower numbers of students to be expected in the future – in the compulsory schools we do not see that – do not require a new school building, because some of them might be empty afterwards. I would also like to say to colleagues Brosz and other twins that they should look at the details. We see, when we look at the maximum number of students, the following: We also have a de facto lower number of pupils in the workshop classes about six to eight students in the middle and higher schools and in the AHS through the constituencies. We have performance groups in the primary schools and thus a de facto lower number. And the accompanying and supporting teachers for the integration of children – disabled children and children with non-German mother tongue – contribute to the fact that the de facto number of students in the classes is actually lower. The Federal Minister has given further figures, we can be proud of these figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Teachers have mentioned their concerns, but they have not – as they understand something about education and school – called the highest number of students as the first concern and as the first manko. – Read the teacher working time study, and then you know where the teachers of the shoe press: There is, in part, the discipline problem, the image problem, which may also have arisen because school is being made worse because the performance of teachers is being "speaked" worse – including by you – than it is in reality. A sentence by the President of the Vienna City School Council Scholz – I can quote him at this point – appeals to me: Sometimes you have to protect a profession like that of the teacher from yourself. - Quote. And sometimes it may be necessary to protect the Greens or the opposition from their own thoughts if they criticize the school and find it unjust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to remind you of the following figures: For the fields of education and science, for universities and for all schools, 105 billion schilling was made available in 2000 and in 2001 there will be 109 billion schilling. – Mr Colleague! If you don't see any increase in it, you need to re-help again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The annual work model is in discussion, and from tomorrow there will be a vote among the teachers on it. This was wanted by the teachers of Austria for a long time. The procedure, to say, you agree with the proposals of the Federal Government referred to in the budget accompanying law, or if you want this model of year, is legitimate. Ladies and gentlemen! Some of the actions relating to the university area are also unjustified. It is true that we have also invested in the fact that, in the previous year, after a reasonable savings in investment, for which physical and personnel expenditure could be increased, we have achieved the "silver medal" compared to the OECD countries in the field of education. Ladies and gentlemen! High school quality is required. We should continue to work on her, we should not be unjustly panicked, we should take the numbers seriously, and we should be the Vienna election campaign and let the teachers work in the school so that the students can move forward and we can keep this top position.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4930	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e4951	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially my ladies and gentlemen, from the left-wing education policy! [[Abg. Oils: You don't have one at all! It's much worse!]] Allow me to ask you the question now – Mr Brosz! We have here a poster of the union of compulsory school teachers, which informs colleagues that the union has negotiated with the Federal Government in order to prevent a reduction in the planning positions. They write – I quote –: In the course of the negotiation process, we have been able to reach this as well, to follow up further discussions. This is signed by Hermann Helm, President of the Group FCG, by Herbert Modernitzky, President of the Group, FSG, and you, Mr Brosz, have been silent about an Alois thinking, which you know is the President of the Group of the ÖLIUG. He has also signed this, so your trade union is also behind this proposal! Therefore, do not criticize something supported by your trade union! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Independent union!]] You've already had to clarify internally what you're for or what you're against, but line has never been with you, we've known that for a long time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But it's not about the few greens, ladies and gentlemen: You wouldn't be worth it if we continued to deal with them. We're talking about the parents, we're talking about the students. In my opinion, it is important that the parents support this new right of service, which you so criticize. They say it is a courageous step towards professionalising the teacher profession: The draft was a courageous step towards professionalization and led to a new view of the working time of a teacher, emphasized in a broadcast by Kurt Kremzar, the chairman of the Austrian umbrella association of compulsory school and parent associations. It is particularly positive for him that a transparent hourly quota for school-partnership matters is included in the new service law, Mr Antoni. Just what you demand is welcomed by the parents, and I am pleased. I have a broadcast from my colleague Antoni, whom you know. He writes: New Landeslehrer-Dienstleistrecht was already overdue for SPÖ. – More than overdue, I say. It's a very good right to serve. This is an important approach to breaking up obsolete structures from your time of government in the education sector. – You are glad that there is this new right of service so that the obsolete structures for which you are responsible can finally break up. There is a great deal of praise from colleagues Antoni – but now he speaks exactly the opposite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr Antoni, you must be aware of what you want now. Do you want this new model, which you consider to be positive and so praise in your broadcast, or run an election campaign for Vienna? – Then you say: Today I am not speaking as a teacher, today I am speaking as an election aid of the SPÖ Vienna. – This is accepted, but then leave your hands on education policy, because it is too bad for the Vienna election campaign, Mr Antoni! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You're not the type that produces this reflective no of itself, no, that's been vaccinated to you. Mr Antoni, you know exactly what you're saying: Instead of using the review as otherwise – my God! – the kind of constructive colleague Antoni is in which he can make his proposals, he comes out here and poses a reflective no. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Schweitzer! There's no cabaret here!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the Social Democracy who have put this concept of democracy, the basic democracy, on the flags: Where is this now, where there is intense negotiations for a new service right, where there is a large-scale information campaign with connected discussions, where there is an original vote among all teachers, where there is a wide-ranging review? What's going on? Why is this basic democratic procedure unacceptable to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens? – Because of the Vienna election campaign? Because of the Vienna election campaign? [[Abg. Brosz: Because of the poll!]] – Shame to misuse the education policy for the Vienna election campaign! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Bring something in! Where are your proposals? – There is no proposal from Mr Brosz! Have you presented a constructive proposal on how you would make it different? – Mr Antoni, have you put forward a proposal as to how you would do otherwise? – There is no single proposal. When it comes to making proposals, you have to stop sending, ladies and gentlemen. Criticism, which is not appropriate, is what you achieve in education policy – but not more! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5067	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5088	First of all, Mr Schweitzer's comments: Mr Schweitzer, I am pleased that you seem to see our importance, the importance of the Greens, in the rapid increase, because you are already advocating to us trade unions which I would not join for the Greens. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The ÖLI isn't yours?]] The UG is not our union, the UG would thank itself. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ÖLI! OLI!]] UG is called "Independent Trade Unionists", maybe you will take note of this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ÖLI!]] Mrs Gehrer! On one point, we agree that Austria in general has good schools, and that is why we are concerned because we want it to remain the same. The fact that one should not talk about such a subject is, Mrs Gehrer, but ridiculous. It's about the children in schools, it's about the parents of these children, and it's about the teachers who work hard in this school system and their different roles – they're not only teachers in the narrower sense who teach the children something, but also want to express a social role. [[Abg. Böhacker: For the Vienna election campaign!]] Teachers in schools are going to go to the "goat" anyway. If you say, Mrs Gehrer, that the FAG agreement, the financial compensation agreement, quality, I can only say: Where? – This financial compensation agreement relates to the saving of costs and the reduction of posts. Since when is this something that secures quality immediately? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you say it doesn't change anything, then, I think you don't know your own agreement. In the area of the disabled, too, something is changing, namely that the relationship between the severely handicapped and the others – I say this once – was in a class 16 : 4 and in the future will be 18 : 4. This makes a difference for children and teachers. That's why it's no wonder, Mr Schweitzer, that it's around in schools. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How is it in Germany?]] Go to the schools! Go and take the service negotiations and discussions! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How is it in red-green Germany, Mr Van der Bellen?]] Talk to the teachers affected! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How is it in Germany?]] Take me to Germany, too, but I want you here in Vienna and in Austria to deal with schools, teachers and parents. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How is it there, how are the ratios there?]] Not we, Mrs Gehrer, have uncertainty and fear in schools! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What is in red-green Germany? How's Joschka and Gerhard?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're with Joschka Fischer, not us!]] As you really overestimate our influence, but the teachers and the parents of the children are insecure and worry – yes, it is – because you have decided to take these measures within the framework of the budget, in the context of the financial compensatory negotiations. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't need "puzzle" here in Austria!]] Mr Haigermoser! I take – in your favor! – not knowing what you are weakening. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Especially in Vienna, Mrs Gehrer, we are worried. That's right! Whether we're an election campaign or not, we're allowed to worry, even if election is, aren't we?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Böhacker: But not so obvious!]] Some 1,000 jobs are to be saved this year. It should be that within the framework of the negotiations with the trade union, there will be only 800 or "only" – under quotation marks – 500. What is the union negotiating about? – It de facto negotiates pay cuts for teachers so that fewer posts need to be saved. This is the unpleasant situation of the trade unions. It is another question that should be addressed at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, because election is in Vienna, I say again: I very much regret that neither this Federal Government nor in the past the SPÖ Vienna has perceived the multilingualism of children as an opportunity, as a real opportunity. Of course, these children need to be trained in German, in their mother tongue – that's not automatic – and in English anyway. Then we would have a potential in 10, 20 years, also an economically interesting potential of trilingual people on the labour market. That was not perceived. The coalition agreement contains a very obscene point, namely that - what do you call that? – foreign-speaking children in classes – perhaps even "foreign" – should not exceed 30 percent. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] An answer to how you want to do this without any gross injuries of the social...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5305	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5320	...and pedagogical standards, you have remained guilty to this day.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5351	The Federal Minister has spoken in the debate. Speaking time in the debate: 5 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5372	Mr President. High house! Mr Van der Bellen has said that we need to be able to talk about a subject, we need to worry. – Of course! However, I believe it is important that the educational and school sectors in particular are characterised by constructive efforts and that there are no misclaims in the school sector. I would like to show this on the basis of an example that has just been delivered to us. By Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen it was said that the ratio in integration classes was earlier 16 : 4 and will now probably be 18 : 4. – Where to take from You're asking for this claim? – It is within the competence of each country to define these figures, make these classifications and set their own priorities. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If the competent mayor of Vienna and the competent mayor Deputy Mayor of Integration is so important that they can set priorities in this area. The opposition is called for in particular: fewer laws, fewer rules, more independence of the countries, and federalism is also a major issue. We grant the establishment plans according to a certain ratio, and the money for that is agreed. The country can make its own design freely in the compulsory school sector, taking into account the maximum schooling levels. There will then be no more numbers for group divisions. Everything falls within the competence of the country. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is cynicism!]] It is not true that from now on in a school where there is an integration class, the ratio must be 18 : 4. That's what I'm saying with uncertainty that's being carried into schools. I would like to say the following: Mr. Dr. Antoni, I agree with you – you have a good long-term memory: We have good schools, we have a high level, we are proud of it, and we secure this level with this educational budget. But something does not seem to work in your short-term memory, because we have negotiated coalition agreements with a Social Democratic Chancellor, in which it is clear: In the field of schools, a volume of 1 billion schilling is to be saved by 2003 as a permanent effect. It is necessary to ensure that measures in the field of the federal states are also implemented in an analogous way with the national teachers. [[Abg. Gradwell: When did this come into force, Mrs. Federal Minister?]] That means: The Social Democratic Federal Chancellor climate has found that we cannot make any further debt, we must reduce debt and secure the high level in schools. And that's what we do! [[Abg. Riepl: Who signed this? - No human!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another word on the subject of universities: We have a further development because we want to make better out of our good universities. And I would ask you not to hurt yourself in this area. High quality services are provided. But together we want to develop into an independent university, a new, flexible right of service. I very much welcome the fact that the rectors' conference yesterday and yesterday made a constructive statement and constructive contributions to this new right of service. I urge everyone not to object, because in Senates, saying no and consenting to it is refusal of the future. We need people working on the future. I therefore conclude by saying: The emphasis on education is on this government's important and important concern. In general, there is an increase of 6 percent, but the education budget increases by 7.4 percent. We have the "computer billions", we have the "university billions", and we have 7 billion schilling for research. Education is a priority, and the quality of education is guaranteed by this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5448	The next speaker is Mrs Beate Schasching. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5469	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right ahead, Mrs. Federal Minister: There is no agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP on savings in the education system, and I am very glad that there will never be that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You also meant that you would lack the constructive effort of my group. I would just like to remind you that over the course of this legislative period, it was the opposition that made the requests for content and some very good considerations in the teaching committee. That was our contribution to the constructive education policy – and it is your group and your federal government, which is now starting the spasm, I would like to make it clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you are constantly presenting us with new figures and statistics, I would like to ask you when you were last in a school and when you last spoke to teachers who are rightly unsure because of this loss of education, which the Federal Government is now presenting to us. When did you last question that? Mr Schweitzer attacked our education spokesperson Antoni and accused him of having left here with a reflective inoculated "no". [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it!]] . I would like to point out that we do not have a guru in the south of Austria, which keeps the government on track and makes specifications. We discuss and then come to results. This is the difference that the Social Democracy takes from the FPÖ very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] But now on the situation and today's educational debate: I would just like to tell you a few examples from my district and tell you the situation in Lower Austria and in St. Pölten, and explain to you what the reduction in the education system for small districts and for small places brings, because that is what we have to do here. If you are withdrawing money, you also withdraw the opportunities, then you will withdraw your teachers from school – especially when you delete posts. But, unfortunately, it will come. In the district of St. Pölten, in the city, we have to expect very concretely that we will lose between 18 and 30 plan posts in the compulsory school teacher area. This is not too much for a city, but 18 to 30 teachers can no longer be employed. I do not think they will go into retirement voluntarily, even with such great social plans. It'll be the boys we're gonna miss. And this is also a very important point in the education system that we will be careful to continue to have young and experienced teachers in schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does this mean for the students? – This not only means that teachers get away from them, but also means that they get a wide range of offers away from them. Legathenic care is no longer possible in St. Pölten this school year. There are already classes combined, there are already service groups combined, and there are already non-binding exercises. There are already seven public schools in the district of St. Pölten/Land, which are threatened by the combination of individual classes – but not the same ones, but different ages. This is a very big problem for the teachers, but especially for the students. Please feel sorry for them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to talk briefly about the fact that, due to the saving of likely 80 classes in the northern Lower Austria, there will be an additional - so I say - depopulation of the rural area. Not enough to ensure that these Federal Governments share posts at the Gendarmerie, that there will be post office closures, that secondary stations are abandoned, that financial offices are put together, one would now also want to reduce school quality and close schools in these crisis regions. And that is a breach of all the promises that have been known so far for this population. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How was the demo at Stephansplatz yesterday? What was going on at Stephansplatz?]] – Yes, Mr Schweitzer, listen a little bit! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The consequences for our students, but also for the parenthood are huge. They not only have to do with the horrors of the Federal Government by pushing their attention to savings measures, but also need to be added...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5557	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5573	... invest in the school budget. That is why I would like to conclude by saying: Education and training, best education and training, our young people in Austria have always been a central concern – and we will be happy to fight for it in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5606	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Same time of speech. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5627	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! entrance a few numbers to the black-blue "Degradation": In 2001, 109 billion schillings were planned in education expenditure, compared with 105.7 billion in 2000 and 101.5 billion schilling in 1999. If You call this a "degradation" then I can't deny the impression that you've missed some degree of mathematics. In my opinion, this is an increase. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, it is necessary and necessary to ensure that these funds are used efficiently in the context of budgetary consolidation, and this has also made it clear to the Federal Government under the responsibility of the Federal Minister Gehrer for Education. This is confirmed by such independent witnesses as the President of the Vienna City School Council Kurt Scholz, who confirmed your statements regarding "saving", "posting" and "closure of classes", as last in the "Kurier" of 3rd century. January 2001, as a pure panic. I thank Mr Scholz for these clear words. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the joint effort of the efficient use of increased funds can of course also be used politically for a municipal election. This then looks like the following: ==References== Last October, the head of state of Vienna Michael Häupl signed an agreement in which he promised the savings of 1,400 national teaching departments. The Ministry, the Vienna City School Council, the school organisation strives to obtain these savings through redistribution – it is not persons but planning sites – through targeted use, through natural graduation and to maintain the full range of education. That's a success. At the same time, however, the signature of the head of state of Vienna is subject to the agreement of the 17th century. In October 2000, a campaign in schools aimed at insecurity between parents, teachers and students. The Press Releases of People's Schools indicate that they will probably no longer receive her teacher. There 14-year-olds are told they will sit next year with 60 students in one class. – I wonder: Do you really think these 14-year-old kids are so stupid that they believe that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] There is a misuse of the educational credit of tens of thousands of committed teachers in our country by making them ridiculous to students and parents with such arguments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The numbers have already been mentioned. The ratio in primary school is 1 : 15 instead of 1 : 13,8, in primary school 1 : 10 instead of 1 : 9,2. – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Brosz: That's not true at all! That's 14,5!]] This is an effective education policy that we want to continue to maintain despite your attempted panic. I'll tell you something about Vienna right now: Two years ago, Mrs. Gehrer, the Federal Minister, asked the school authorities to explain to the authorities our schools and their surroundings as drug-free zones. What, though, is the answer of the state government of Vienna, which, according to the type of SPÖ, causes panic among students and parents? – With her new city councillor, Pittermann, she is committed to preventing the reduction of borders and not to taking up this proposal, which I think is very useful. [[Abg. That's what you're talking about!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You are really a lay actor!]] That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. Just point this out to your comrade in Vienna!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5714	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5729	No panic at school and a drug-free environment – this is our goal for students and parents.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5759	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5781	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As the father of three school-based children, I would just like to tell you that it really had to come so far that, on the occasion of the Vienna municipal council election, it is tried to instrumentalize children and parents Party-politically. [[Abg. Sweamlein: That doesn't allow you to understand something from the school yet!]] It is true – you know that very well – that this is currently being done in Vienna. [[Abg. Ollinger: What has Tancsits just done?]] I say – I join the Federal Minister – that the school and especially our children are not subject and not objects of a municipal election campaign. Remember that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The following is addressed to your address: If you are constantly talking about the formula that teacher reduction is equal to a reduction in education, I am telling you from this point of view, that is not true. That's just not true! A very simple example: There are 15 compulsory school teachers in your ranks. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many?]] – 15, a quarter of the Group! [[Abg. Haigermoser: After servas!]] If a teacher reduction were actually to mean a reduction in education, then at the schools where your teachers are not teaching today, because they are sitting here, the reduction of education is perfect – isn't it? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Once again, you can see how easily you can cope with some teachers not to employ them. It's easy! [[Renewal cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Once again, you will see how this area is finally instrumentalized and is still going to be. It can't be a coincidence that a workers' movement is no longer a worker in this group, but only teachers, trade unionists and party workers. It can't be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Burgenlande Landesregierung!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I would also like to say a word on the comments made by my colleague. Van der Bellen: We have once again received a demonstration of your child-moving today. If you do not refer to the ÖLI, Austrian teacher initiative – Green Trade Union Group – as close to you, then I have to say that this is not just a child-moving, but it proves for the time being your careless dealing with the truth. [[Abg. Brosz: Green Independent!]] That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What's the fact? – The educational budget for the countries was also decided in the financial compensation. Häupl and Laska carried this – including Goerg, you have to say that. Finally, there is a reduction in youth care in the afternoon. However, according to the division of competence, youth care is not a federal matter in the afternoon. This Federal Government has also taken place in order to establish cost-reliance. So if youth care is missing or lacks it, especially in Vienna, then Häupl and Laska are called on to finally stop these conditions. Instead of permanently pushing left-wing organisations into subsidies millions in the back, the youth care activities should finally be financed in the afternoon! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The tasks should finally be carried out by the federal states. That is why it is now necessary to have a municipal council election. People will have to be told who is actually carrying out the tasks in this country. [[Abg. Oillinger: I think so too!]] The social democrats and also the children's waylegs, the Greens, do not carry out the tasks in this country – even in the educational field. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is simply not true that only one teacher had to be terminated by this federal government and the budgetary policy of this federal government. I don't know any teacher who's been terminated, and no teacher is being terminated. Some posts of teachers who go into retirement are no longer re-occupied. That's the only difference. Do not insure the parents and the students and instrumentalize them for your party-political agitation!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5958	Next speaker in the current debate The hour is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e5978	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs Gehrer! We have been having a problem for years, and we will probably not be able to solve this for so long as you are resisting the integration of disabled children, what you have done successfully so far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! I don't know where your aversion to disabled people is from. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is immense! It's adventurous to say that!]] The fact is that in recent years, however, you have always tried, if it was possible, to destroy school integration successfully. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: She's got a fool's freedom!]] As the last great act, Mrs Minister, I would just like to address you to the 19. School Organisation Act-Novelle. Mrs. Minister! I don't want to go now. Check your short-term or long-term memory, that's not my job. But I'd like to ask you if you remember what happened in the 19th century. Shog-Novelle stands. I'll tell you: The special educational need for children with disabilities and disabilities ends with the completion of the basic stages. What does that mean, Mrs. Minister? – That means that your support teacher system, which at first you have tried to make people tasty, no longer exists at all; it does not exist at the latest when it is the first class primary school or when it comes to a middle school. Then there are no more support teachers. Mrs. Minister! Please note: That's what you're doing with the 19th. School Organisation Law Novelle destroyed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister! You can also expect a little, I'm convinced. You know that school integration will stay on track when it comes to the distribution struggle. If today, within the framework of autonomy, a federal state has a certain sum left for the appointment of teachers, it will not be the case that one first ensures the integration classes plus additional staff to support teachers and then looks what remains in order not to exceed the maximum number of students et cetera. [[Call the ÖVP: How do you know?]] Mrs. Minister! If that were the case, you would have to free either hundreds of thousands of children in Austria from school each year, or return them because that wouldn't go out. This is not possible by calculation, because then you could not "train" all children. Mrs. Minister! We'll be back where we've been before – I remember, I was one of the victims myself when I wanted to roll to school in 1961: I was denied this because of lack of teachers, because of lack of support teachers et cetera, et cetera. You now want to achieve this school policy, Mrs Minister, which took place in Austria in 1961. That is, your "new governance" means step back to the past, step back by 40 years, step back in education and has nothing to do with achieving higher levels and highest quality et cetera at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] This is school policy of the past. Mrs. Minister! In the course of this school policy, you can join with Mr. Sozialminister. You can save your "embarrassed billions." If you do not give disabled children the right to attend the regular school and refuse to take the course of education in the public school, then we will not need the "advertising billions" for integration into the labour market – unfortunately not need it. Whoever massages children's education must not be surprised if that results in a high rate of unemployment!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6083	A call for an order for Mr Schweitzer's phone call was requested that Mrs Haidlmayr had "Norse freedom". I would like to have this expression rejected with determination and asked to pay attention to the choice of words. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is also true of Mrs Haidlmayr! That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The Federal Minister has once again spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6118	Mr President. High house! I can't believe I'm supposed to have an aversion to the disabled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Greens) That can be said to have aversion to disabled people?]] I have enforced integration into secondary school, we have achieved the entrance level, each child being admitted to school. I also reject the fact that children are not in a regular school in a special school. A special school is an excellent support school for children with special needs, and the special school teachers do very great achievements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In conclusion: How little competence, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, do you trust our national leaders and the national heads of state, the competent national school councils? How little social competence do you entrust to the mayor and the vice-president of Vienna? – They are responsible for putting special education, the special offer for people with special needs at the centre of their efforts, and I am convinced that they will do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6171	I declare that the current hour is over. Discussion on the objections to the agenda pursuant to § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6192	As already announced at the beginning of the sitting, Mrs Dr Petrovic has raised objections to today's agenda within the meaning of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure. These objections concern points 2 to 6. – I do not support these objections, i.e. the decision is taken after the debate requested by the National Council. I make use of the opportunity to limit the speaking time of the individual Members to 5 minutes in this debate. In addition, § 50 GOG provides that no more than three speakers are allowed to nominate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6219	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Greens raise objections to the agenda with regard to the issues relating to the establishment of a "Communication Commission Austria", "Communautria", and the standards on broadcasting and television. It is actually surprising that the two government groups in the committee on this issue were not even impressed by statements and arguments from those belonging to their political groups. [[Abg. Böhacker: Not!]] Klubobmann Khol was the one who let us know from Alpbach that he is demanding a comprehensive media package. We have thought that this is a very reasonable request, which should be made in Austria: a novel on the ORF, but also a comprehensive regulation for private television, private broadcasting and the creation of an independent authority. We always thought that was reasonable. The liberal expert at the four-party talks has expressed himself in a very similar way. It was then suddenly different in the committee. That's what you said: One must be quick above all; one cannot now make a comprehensive package, one cannot respond to arguments of criticism. "Speed" is announced once again. – I'll talk about the backgrounds in a moment. I would just like to give you a single example of the massive criticism of experts who are not close to the opposition. I quote the Institute for Constitutional and Administrative Law of the Vienna University of Economics, which says that the concept of an independent regulatory authority is now in line with a common European standard – yes, it is – but this independence does not meet that standard by appointing the relevant members on a proposal from the Blue-Black Federal Government. Similarly, the creation of a president with a comprehensive position of power is criticised, although it does not have a substantive competence, but it has a management power, which goes so far as to change the composition of proverbs. This means that he can change the human composition of the decision-making bodies ad hocly. Bravo I can only say! This really seems to be the reason for your hurry, because it actually seems to be about bringing blue-black party-political deals to the rounds even quickly and apparently before the Vienna elections. [[Abg. Wenisch: On the subject!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The ORF should be coloured completely black. And we got to know yesterday what the area is like, social security. There was a blue side, Sallymutter has to leave. – Yes, and that's how it happened. There is a party-political spectacle here, which can no longer be surpassed by embarrassment and also by democracy-political dignity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We're going to experience the effects. Austria is now looking at the issue of number one, about BSE, the debate is about a drug scandal in pigs. There are discussions in the ORF, and what happens? – Representatives of the opposition are invited. Yes, not even the independent animal welfare organisations that have exposed this scandal may be more on the stage. There is an authority that becomes independent of the public service contract – regardless of European standards and only depending on your blue-black power policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6285	Perhaps I should have said at the outset that the red thread of the debate on the motion for a resolution is the arguments that call for a change in the agenda. The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say that all the requests on the agenda today have been completed in the Committee. On the other hand: The agenda – and therefore, of course, the agenda on the "Comustria" requests – was jointly adopted at the presidential meeting. So there is no formal reason today for not having a debate on the new regulation in the media. However, there is no basis for not having the debate, because, as you all know, there has been a standstill in Austrian media policy for 15 years. [[Abg. Oils: And this is the movement!]] Now, in October, the Federal Government has presented a draft that takes account of European standards and also developments in the European field so that this standstill can finally be lifted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is what the opposition is particularly challenging, but in reality cannot argue away with contentions: The model was submitted to an independent authority. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: In your imagination! You'd like that!]] That's exactly what you keep demanding. The time of packing, mail chess and junkimizing in media policy must finally belong to the past! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You also know very well that the repeal of the private broadcasting authority in the Regional Radio Act by the Constitutional Court of Justice makes it necessary now to talk about the "KommAustria" and a reorganisation in this area. This need does not exist for the ORF law. [[Abg. Heinzl: Who wrote you this speech?]] One thing I have to keep before you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: The government template has been known since October; we have been offering talks since October. Since October, we have been trying to come to a common reorientation in the field of media policy with you. Unfortunately, we did not succeed! We have therefore not succeeded in considering the content of the debate, but we have not succeeded because you have not offered any dates at all. The first joint discussion took place two days before the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, ladies and gentlemen. That is to say, the opposition has ignored our call offers and has therefore also conducted a refusal to talk. You don't want to talk about it today either, why? – Because You need to make a statement that you are refusing the template in which a forward-looking model is based on EU standards and in which an independent authority is postulated. You document, ladies and gentlemen, that you still want to stop in Austrian media policy. I would like to quote the editor-in-chief of the press who wrote: "We would rather let the media scene of the country rot even further than allow the government to succeed." Only you overlook, ladies and gentlemen: It would not only be a success of the government, but the "KommAustria" would be a success for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6400	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Same speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6421	The problem is that you don't want an independent media authority. Their proposal was anything but a proposal for an independent authority. You know very well that the ordering processes were designed in such a way that in fact every occupation of the so important and responsible positions that have much to decide and which concern the media landscape would have been dominated solely by the government, i.e. by ÖVP and FPÖ, by these two parties. We will of course not participate in a seemingly independent media authority! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I don't understand why all of a sudden it's being shrouded. It's so obscene to me. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] – The Oberlacher, Klubobmann Khol, sat with State Secretary Morak in September last year at a media conference in Alpbach. We had a discussion back then. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You haven't brought it together for ten years! For ten years! Ten years don't bring it together!]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol said we'll be on 5 May. A media package will be presented in December, as the media authority will be proposed as well as the revision of the ORF Act and the Private TV Act. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We did! We did!]] It's not on the table. Of course, all three belong together, and that is what you said at the time. But your word does not apply. Now I wonder why this is being separated. I can tell you: because, of course, you are planning to influence the ORF because you want to have censorship because you want to consent to the freedom of journalists, because you really want to have in the media authority a metric censorship commission that determines what is objective in the ORF, what the ORF is allowed to do commercially and whether it is allowed to do some form of broadcasting. This goes so far that you would have preferred to mix with "Taxi orange", probably you, Klubobmann Khol and Klubobmann Westenthaler, would have preferred to sit in the "Kütscherhof". That's how it actually goes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We're not going to join them. The sufferers are actually private radio operators, who are now naturally uncertain. The sufferers are those who want to make private television, because the private television law is not yet on the table. Today, there is a sudden attempt to put time into the agenda, so that Their schedule is fulfilled, but it is not justified in fact, because it is not sufficient to conduct appropriate discussions. The problem is that you don't like competition. They want to continue the Telekom control, a regulatory authority for the telecommunications market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – You’re the upper competition guru, you shouldn’t laugh at all, because the truth is that the use of the mobile phone, which an ÖVP delegate is doing during the session, namely calling the phone, becomes more expensive when the competition is closed. [[Abg. Kiss calls with his cell phone]] You want to narrow the competition, you don't want an independent media authority, your proposal is 17 million schilling more expensive than our proposal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have no proposal! You don't have a suggestion at all! Tell me, what proposal? Tell me a suggestion!]] We want independent regulation, and we want the ORF to continue to be able to fulfil its task freely and independently. These are real differences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You just have to look at how you deal with the Republic, whether this is the ÖIAG or the social security. There it goes ruck, tuck; then everything that is not government-loyal, which is not subject to your orders at the push of a button, will be removed. This is the Third Republic coming, but this is a Republic that no one but you can want to sit on the push and try to do all that. You're still missing the media. Then you can make such an awkward and still such a bad policy if you manage to build up such structures in the media sector that they then report as you want. If the sky is blue and you say that today it is hung with clouds, then everyone will say yes, Khol and Westenthaler say that the sky is hanging with clouds, then everyone will tell, it is hung with clouds. So look out for the weather news you're doing. That can't be, and there will be resistance, I can tell you! That won't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you want the freedom of journalists in the ORF, if you want to enlist the freedom of journalism and reporting, and if you want to build this authoritarian monoctic state that you are trying to build, then you will have to involve the seers and listeners more closely in the ORF, for example. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Cap wants to be General Intern!]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Well, do it!]] Then you should ask them whether they want this galvanization at all that you are planning from the government parties. Yes, you should ask them at all – up to questioning the population whether this link you are planning should really come. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Make a referendum...!]] At least we say no to that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6590	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. He has a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6620	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President, Fischer has rightly agreed not to lose the red thread on the subject. It was quite a remarkable speech from my predecessor – only this one could not be seen: Is it now for these agenda items to be dropped or not? So, Mr Cap, a classical case-by-case mistake. This once at the beginning at your address. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Cap, also said that there was no reason for speed in this matter. . I believe that you agree, but from the SPÖ you have raised the principle of a standstill on the political style of your media policy – and this for years, Mr Cap! Her media policy, the media policy of social democracy, was based on the "Mikado principle": Just don't touch! – or to change a title of the game of Franz Grillparzer: Woe to the one who is touching! So that's your stylistics, and that's why you don't want to discuss the matter here at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The reason why speed is stated – as you have not yet understood it, I can repeat it: That's why speed is due to the temporary private broadcasting licenses on 19 November. ==References== You know that, and you also know exactly that you and the SPÖ are being just as stunned by the private radio operators, finally creating the "KommAustria", at last the novel to the private radio law, so that private radio operators will be freed from this damocles sword of attitude! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's the point!]] In spite of many years of efforts by private radio operators, they have not managed to create a legal basis for this. I just remember, for example, the Regional Radio Act 1994; 1995 stopped by the Constitutional Court. Private broadcasting operator: Hundreds of millions of schilling, as a result of a diletantic legislation of SPÖ media policy, has been put into the sand! – It took two years for it to reach the novelle in 1997. 1998: commissioning of private radio stations. – So you also have to take responsibility of the SPÖ! [[Abg. Swimmlein: The ÖVP was never there, of course!]] The Constitutional Court did not withdraw these licences until last year. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You cannot create yourself here with credibility and claim that you would now be committed to this in the interest of the media landscape in Austria, in the interest of an independent media authority, in the interest of an independent ORF, in the interest of independent journalists! You really don't do that! And you know for yourself: They're just about mail chess. You have also always asked the following question in the party negotiations: Yes, who determines the members of the media authority? That's what six members are supposed to be. You of the SPÖ have only been concerned that your party has the majority there to determine the members of the media authority. Mr Cap! To your accusation "Postenchacher" to the address of the government parties: It is precisely social democracy that should be particularly cautious and calm, as this accusation has reached, that one of the hardest post-chakers in recent years, namely the care of the ex-minister Scholten in the softly padded posts of the Board of Directors of the Control Bank, has led to a tragic suicide, namely that of Mr Praschak, who did not want to turn away from a reckless and brutal occupation policy of social democracy! – If you, Mr Cap, are talking about mail chess here, you are really the wrong person! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are still coming to the debate on the subject. I have explained why we need this novel to the private radio law very quickly. We also need an independent media authority. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] I would like to end my debate with the quote of a journalist who is very distant from the FPÖ, and Karl Danning writes in the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten": After seeing the SPÖ "for decades media policy in occupying top positions in the ORF, intervening and second counting, it is now blocking initiatives that are not made of jux and tolling but are predetermined by top judges". This quote, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing more to be added.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6711	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6732	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! On the comments by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer and Mr Krüger: In addition, when it comes to pressing blue-black in, where it's just kind of that you're getting posts wherever it is, I don't really need to say anything now, because: The events of the last two days and what happens in connection with the main association speak volumes, ladies and gentlemen, anyway! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer said that there is no "formal reason" for taking points 2 to 6 from the agenda. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are not only formal reasons for this, but above all content! But first of all, I would like to mention the formal reasons for you not to be subject to that belief that you are trying to spread. The Greens have never resisted an independent media authority and have also said in the discussions in the Presidency: Of course, we are in favour of this being on the agenda today, if – if so! – there is an agreement on this, say two-thirds majority for a procedure. The Greens didn't lock him. . So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in saying that the Green Group would have voted in favour of this agenda today! That is what we intend to decide today – and that will be decided, as I believe, because the majority relations are the same as they are – and we cannot agree with that by our group! You can see it anyway at the main association [[Abg. Dr. Khol: on the matter!]] However, you are not concerned by the government parties about matters, not about making orders according to competence, according to knowledge, but only about: Who's a red one – get away with him! Who is a blue one – in with him! [[Call the liberals: on the matter!]] That's your only criterion! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If I have to listen here, ladies and gentlemen, to the coalition parties, that you are talking about an "independent media authority" which should consist of 13 members, with ten members being elected by the Federal Government, I can only say: So stupid can no one be to believe that this has anything to do with independence, even if Blue Black please select ten out of 13 members! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, if you do not believe a Member of the Greens who doubts the democratic legitimacy of such an authority, perhaps at least university professors who have sent you, as well as us, opinions and opinions on your democratic policy ideas. [[Intervocations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] University professor Dr. Rill clearly writes – both you and colleagues from Blau-Schwarz, as well as us – that what the members of the media authority are about, not only about the issue of expertise, but of course also about the aspect of democracy policy, is not only about tasks that go far beyond the requirement of expertise – one of course should always have if one is sitting in such a body. It is also a question of touching very important social policy aspects. This is a two-class information society. This will make a difference for the future, whereby entire groups of society are threatened by being excluded, if they are, so to speak, in a bell of 13 ladies and gentlemen, with ten determined by blue-black and put in! No matter what: I do not agree with these future members on matters of competence, but the legitimacy of democracy on such essential issues as the design of our media society, to be actually and truly legitimate, to decide on them. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In order to make a few comments on the content: So please, nothing more than a comprehensive overall media package – as the blue-black government has promised. Of course: a comprehensive media package! And that was also the foreign exchange – but not a piece like what threatens to become law today. Where, ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary, Mr Bundeskanzler, is the question of free radios - also an important question of democracy policy - regulated in your overall media package?- Oh, my God! Where is the question of the minority radios of total democracy political?- Oh, my God! – Nothing of it is inside! It is not only formal reasons why these proposals should be put off from today's agenda, but also, above all, important arguments in terms of content. The fact that you do not take yourself seriously, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, shows the fact that an opinion is being commissioned, according to which national frequencies can be sought. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] This opinion will be delivered in March, but this draft law will be adopted today! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such a fool! This has nothing to do with the "KommAustria"! That's a fool!]] This is a policy of democracy and not a way of doing what we want.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6849	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. He too has a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6871	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the Green Group's objections are justified. The government groups want to install a media authority, which they call "independent", but which would not be really independent – not only in our opinion, but also in the opinion of university professors – and would be only in lack of democratic legitimacy. You need our votes for the approval of this authority. We won't give them to you. Our concern is that you will also do the whole thing to get the ORF fully in your influence to get more reporting to support black and blue. You of the Coalition Parties say in this debate: No, we don't! You're saying it's just about better regulation of audio-visual media and the telecommunications sector. – We say: If that's true, then change your proposal for the authority and put on the table what you really want in the ORF and in the private radio area! – You don't, you don't want to. They bring in the law today, a law for which a two-thirds majority is required. You know that you don't get it, but you still want to vote because you want to open a double mill for the opposition: We agree with the opposition, then you have what you want. – We don’t agree, then don’t use it to continue negotiating, but then take it as an excuse to try to establish an authority with a simple majority at the Federal Chancellor’s Office and then call us: It's all the blame! – We reject such a strategy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They from the government parties are about the ORF, about the political influence to the government influence – and therefore you do not want to continue to negotiate: not about the ideas of the ORF general intern, to remove government representatives from the board of trustees and to have less political influence in the ORF, not about the proposal of the "Kronen-Zeitung" on the stronger influence of the citizens and of the listeners and seers' representatives, even the listeners and seers as a whole, in place of the government influence. They want – ruck, tick! - Turn on now! This It's not all right to take action! They have told us – and rightly maintained – that my party has made mistakes in the past. – Yes, but we have seen these mistakes, and these are not an argument – yes, we see them – to now ask us to help you do something much, much more trouble, namely to put the independent, objective, Austrian broadcasting under the blue-black government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6925	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e6946	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about whether to delete items from the agenda and hear the question from the left side of this House: Why do you mean that? – Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say once again: ==References== October 2000 is known for this government template. "Hudeln" in this context means that only last week you were willing to talk about it at all, officially negotiating it with the government parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I believe that this accusation is really not justified. You had enough time to talk about it – today you have to decide. Point two, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: You're telling us you weren't sufficiently involved. . We have heard what you wanted to talk to us informally today, Mr Cap has said once again: about the ORF, about the posts, about the curators, about the President of this new authority. – She is interested in human occupation – and nothing else! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the point!]] But we are not at our disposal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sweamlein: (in the direction of the speaker) So young and so a real-life objector!]] [[Call to the ÖVP.]] Point three: Today we are dealing with a decision, and the question is: Is this house for an independent "KommAustria", which in future has to decide as a media authority for all alike and without government influence, who in competition gets this or that frequency, who comes about in competition there or there through a decision of this "KommAustria"? Are you for it or against it? That is the question today! Of course, it is clear to us that you would have liked to see this deleted from the agenda by the SPÖ, because you want to try again to build a junkim there or there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] However, you should always remember the following: Your influence on the ORF, which you had from the SPÖ in the past under your "glorious" Federal Chancellor climate, has not helped you either – these elections have been lost. [[Abg. That has nothing to do with it! Mr President, you are very weak.]] There is nothing left of climate in Austria – except his dog "Grolli", and this one is in Burgenland. You should think about this in the case of tried junkims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ:You are embarrassing!]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are for this independent media authority, which can work outside the administration system, without any influence from a minister. We are in favour of you revealing from the opposition today whether you are for or against independence.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7068	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. The same time, that is, five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7089	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At least it has now been spoken by the media authority. It was completely different at Petrovic. There were: BSE, Telekom, ÖIAG, ORF, and Cap "Taxi orange", the social partners and Sallymutter. It was really an absolute herb and beet salad. They have once again mixed everything and have tried to talk to the astounding public that it is a Wiener Schnitzel. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not succeed in bringing this over. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Very interesting was the contribution of colleague Schieder. He said in half a sentence: Yes, we made mistakes from social democracy. [[Abg. You don't make any natural!]] Now you have to ask – for the motto: name Ross and Reiter! –: What were these mistakes, Mr. Arbitrator? – The errors were that you occupied the curators in your time of government, namely the way you sent the Secretary of State as the recipient of command to the Küniglberg. And this mistake, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly not make this government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: After you don't do that...!]] We have sent independent experts to the ORF Curatorium, and therefore, because they have been re-sented by the current government as independents, they are all not "söldlings of the government" yet, but free, unbound and free from scepticism, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] This distinguishes us from your mistakes, Mr. Arbitrator, which you have admitted. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This debate on the agenda is therefore ridiculous – let us say it with caution. Because Cap meant that this government is "hudeling": Mr Cap, the time of the seven-slaughter government is over! This government is acting! The winter sleep in politics is over, ladies and gentlemen! It's about acting, it's about an independent ORF – and not about a red radio, ladies and gentlemen! This makes us different from you once again. [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] To you, Mr Cap – I have never seen "Taxi orange" – who obviously should sit in front of you very often, I now honour the "Taxi orange" leader's license, because you really deserve it with your speech today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, to you and your accusation "Postenschacher". It is really interesting, with which Creed voice Mrs. Stoisits and Mrs. Petrovic have denounced the "Postenschacher" here. When you come to the bottom, it becomes quite interesting to see what for which posts and pustles of high-ranking green functionaries even sell their soul. Thus happens recently in Salzburg, where the SPÖ/ÖVP coalition has made a special stop by giving four department heads and three department heads in the country a few days before Christmas: quickly, quickly, before the objectiveive law on 1st January. In January 2001 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. There it was quickly brought this thing over the stage, "independent" of course – the others are all "Parteisöldlings". In order for the Greens not to go empty either, Mr. Hüttinger, Klubobmann of the Greens in the municipal council of Salzburg, has negotiated another Supervisory Board chief. [[Call to the liberals and the ÖVP: Here look!]] He took it right away, ladies and gentlemen, because Christmas was. [[Abg. Sweamlein: How about the notary of the liberals, the Lord...?]] And what did Mr Hüttinger have to give for it? – He has made a "basic" – under quotations – of the Greens go overboard and gave his consent to the construction of a huge shopping center on the green meadow. As the Greens would say, pour concrete on the green meadow. In Salzburg, this list of citizens said: That's why we're here to get a Supervisory Board post! [[Call the Freeman: Interesting! Interesting!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you should go on your actions in sack and ashes! You are the post-achter – and this government is for objectivity!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7238	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7259	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haigermoser! Not all are as simple as you are in thinking. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] It's not that you agree somewhere because you get a post. This is not true in all political groups – but it is obvious that you do. [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I just remember, Mr Haigermoser, that the Freemans were the ones who, when the Telekom regulatory authority was set up, weathered "near government" through and through. And why? - Because they have received too few posts. Now, at the new regulatory authority "KommAustria", of course this is all different! Wonderful! I already admit: The liberals will probably not receive as many posts as the ÖVP. This is obviously the "territorium" of the ÖVP, but for that there is again something in the main association of social security funds and in the health insurance companies, where the liberals can then get a little stronger. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer said that the time of packing, mail chess and junkimating had passed. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Formal may be right. Now is not packed, but is now packed, finished. Go, go, go, go, go! We've seen my colleague, Sallmutter, how we're doing. The Council of Ministers is declared unlawful between door and Angel: By the way, Mr. Sallmutter, it's not you anymore! – It is obvious that there is no need to make a decision as is usual in a rule of law in order to get rid of my colleague, Mr Sallmutter, but there is only one whisperer who says: The Sallymutter is an evil boy who has made any decision there! – and an ennerved minister is already running out of the Council of Ministers and says: Get out of here with the Sallymutter! So the method of governing you is, if you don't do it this way and if you don't do it in the way of Mr. Intervention Engineer Westenthaler, because you are blaming yourself by the constant interventions in the ORF, because it becomes embarrassing when Mr. Westenthaler intervenes once over the canvas, once between the doors, once in front of the door, once behind the door, because Mr. Khol says to him: [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] You've got to take something back, Westenthaler. It's a little bit slow! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You should take something back too!]] Because you don't make it in this way and because it's not particularly reasonable, they install a "CommAustria" regulatory authority with which you want to suffocate the ORF via your middle men. That's why you're doing it! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The rest of self-government and independence that still exists in our country, you want to eliminate! And so far, there has been only insufficient!, but that is the only thing I am willing to admit to you that it has already been the case that party politics has played a role in self-government, in social insurance, that the proporz has also played a role in the ORF! – But what you do is much more immaculate, is much clearer, because you don’t even care about formal rules, as we have clearly pre-exceeded in the example of self-administration in social security. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] They don't make any sense that there are legal regulations! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Just don't come to me with the title "Objectivation process"! Yes, you said, even with the ORF, it is objective, at this regulatory authority. At the latest since Mr Stojan was appointed Head of the Carinthian Cultural Office and what Mr Stojan later said about it, we know how your kind of objectivity looks. If the person who was suffocated in there – and has admitted it – explains it publicly, then: Ruck, fuck, go, go to the psychiatry, with police intervention! That's how you get rid of people. [[Abg. Achatz: This is indescribable what you say! A scandal!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You are no longer taken seriously anyway!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If someone – this case of "objectivating" procedures – is clear enough – as Mr Stojan explains: Yes, Mr. Haider has previously explained to me that we are already dealing with this process of objectivity...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7382	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7397	If such a thing comes out, then real fear and fear for the few institutions in this republic that are still deprived of their influence is appropriate – and especially resistance.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7436	Mr Dr. Khol is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7463	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now that a lot of dust has been swirled up, I would like to explain to the listeners and spectators what it really is about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For years, we have wanted an independent, judicial authority that decides independently in disputes between the Monopolist ORF, listeners and listeners and private radios. [[Abg. Parnigoni: As with Sallmutter!]] This objective was firmly anchored in a government agreement that did not come about with the Social Democrats. Today we want to discuss it here in the National Council, we have a majority in the Committee for this objective – and we want to present to the public today whether the Social Democrats stand for the independence of control authorities or not. That's why it's happening today!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7519	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. It's his second word. Since a Member's overall speaking time in this debate is 5 minutes, and Mr Arbitrator has another 1 minute and 41 seconds of speaking time, I put the clock at 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7540	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Khol speak of independence, Mr Haigermoser speaks of independence and says that in the board of trustees of the ORF it would have been seen that, instead of the government representatives who were always only red-black – by the way, Mr Gredler was sitting inside, who was from the Freedom Party – independent professionals would have been employed. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Is that not true?]] These professionals are so "independent" that they go to your political groups. In the first vote, when the proposal was made, an accountant who was qualified and did not belong to any political group to replace Haider with a FPÖ proposal and confidant, they voted equally and especially in favour of the proposal to install the Haider confidant. They're not about independence! And when it comes to you, prove it! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Then don't put in place a law that is legistically bad, in terms of content wrong – at least partly in terms of content – democratic political concern, but make provisions that the media landscape in Austria receives, go from your goal to either equalize the ORF or break it down! This project is not only bad for freedom of expression, it will also be bad for Austria as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7585	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of Mrs Petrovic's amendments, that is, those who vote in favour of the item 2 to 6 being withdrawn from the agenda, show this by a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. It therefore remains with the agenda for today's sitting. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Red-Green in the National Council!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Red-Green is called Blockade!]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1420/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7636	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 1405/J by Dr Lichtenbergerer and comrades concerning the circumvention of the ecopoints regime in road freight transit by Austria, in particular by means of CEMT approvals, by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7666	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform the House that Mr Kostelka has requested the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to report on the motion for a resolution 18/A by Dr Kostelka and comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. ==References== In addition, MEPs have given Dr. Khol, Ing. Westenthaler and Comrades requested to report to the Constitutional Committee 98/A of Deputies Dr. Khol, Ing. Westenthaler and comrades concerning the amendment of electoral orders until 30. ==References== In both cases, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on the request for a deadline. The second brief debate will take place following the debate on the request for a deadline by Mr Kostelka. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the debate. Mr Oellinger also asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion 16/A of MEPs for a federal law aimed at ensuring democratic fundamental rights for non-Austrian citizens. ==References== Here too, there is a desire for a debate. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the previous deadline. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. In addition, Mr Kostelka has asked the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendments 67/A, 68/A, 81/A, 150/A, 169/A, 170/A and 329/A by Mr Kostelka and others, and on Amendment 333/A (E) by Mr Mag. Maier and comrades until 1. ==References== The motions for resolutions shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7712	In order to be able to negotiate items 7 and 8 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 7 and 8 are the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 350/A by Dr Kostelka, Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, Mag. Stoisits and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for the Victims of National Socialism (475 of the Supplements) as well as the report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law on the establishment of a general compensation fund for victims of National Socialism and on restitution measures (Reimbursement Fund Act) and amending the General Social Security Act and the Victims Protection Act (476 of the Supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is therefore unanimously decided. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e7746	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8130	It is proposed that the debate on points 4 to 6, 7 and 8 and 14 to 18 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Mr Oellinger spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8157	Mr President. They have previously pointed out that in the deadline application, oillingers, friends and friends of the "1". In May the Council adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, I would like to correct you, since you have obviously called this appointment mistaken: We have the 1st term. The EU Commission of Austria has also requested a decision on the passive right to vote with this date.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8187	In fact, in the application, the deadline is 1. ==References== – The execution in my template is very inadequate, and therefore I have 1. May read. It's 1. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Gradwell: And again the others are to blame!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Of course! The officials are to blame!]] Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8242	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 195, Freedom and ÖVP per 145 and Green 115 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG on the results of the Nice European Summit
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8282	We shall now proceed to item 1 of the agenda: Declaration by the Federal Chancellor on the results of the Nice European Summit. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8309	Mr President. High house! The days of the Nice European Council are a little behind. These were marathon negotiations, the longest European Council meeting. [[The SPÖ representatives shall keep tables with the title to the height: "Who is the next?" or "Who's next?"]] I can tell you who is next: the European Council in Stockholm. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I am pleased that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, will think of who will organize the next European Councils. Well, these days of Nice are a little behind. But I have taken the liberty – in agreement with the political groups – to inform you informally and to give you all the necessary arguments about what has been agreed there and where we stand. The Treaty will be signed by the Foreign Ministers at the end of February. After that he will be dressed in the Austrian legal language and will be available to you before the summer. This Treaty of Nice is also embedded in an Austrian history. Although it is not planned, but in fact no coincidence, I would say that today we are discussing the events and the results of Nice, on the day on which exactly one year ago 14 countries of the European Union proposed and also published sanctions against Austria. It's exactly the anniversary today. This is a meeting that is very important because it has made a very specific attitude visible, an attitude directed against the spirit of the European Treaties, which is not based on the ground of European law. And the nice thing now is that a joint, parallel Austrian-Belgian initiative has been launched in Nice – at our initiative – in order to never allow such events against a member country of the European Union to be made possible by a newly drafted Article 7. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I remember the starting position a year ago very precisely: I sat at a Vienna hotel at lunch with the then FPÖ-Obmann Jörg Haider and was called on the mobile phone – not as some diaries say – by Antonio Guterres, the Portuguese Prime Minister and Chairman of the Council, but by his Foreign Minister Jaime Gama, who told me – it was not very pleasant for him to deliver this message – that consultation has just given rise to these three unjustified measures: no more bilateral political contacts, which have reversed relations at technical level, no support for Austrian candidates wherever they begin and occur. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How usual!]] He was also told that this should not be published, but that should still be discussed with Austria. – You know how it actually came. At this point I would also like to say something that has personally touched me: I was shocked by this announcement, because there has never been anything like this in the history of Europe – and I really hope that such a thing will never happen again, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These sanctions were, of course, not against the government, but against the country. [[Contradict with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Who, ladies and gentlemen, represents an Austrian ambassador? - Not me! He is appointed by the Federal President, and it is his duty to represent the whole country: This is the basic law of Austrian diplomacy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For whom is an Austrian candidate who may have a completely different political attitude than the political parties who are currently supporting the Federal Government? – Of course, he stands for a country and for his person! Therefore, this measure has been deeply unfair, it has even affected the individual rights and opportunities of a European citizen – a profoundly anti-European violation that is to be complained of from our side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And the third, the consequences that led to the fact that at least for a time scientific contacts, student exchange, business relations were called into question, about media and political statements were just too problematic: Who, if not all of Austria, does this happen? Governments or ministers can probably be the easiest to "shake off", they can say: Okay, we're focusing on the "home work"! But the country as a whole has suffered. I also say openly that some people in Austria – even here in the High House – have taken a little longer until they understand that there is indeed a common, firm, determined attitude needed to defend all of Austria. And I thank those who understood it and always lived it quite naturally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But it is also thanks to those who have understood much earlier than their governments that this is actually a violation of European principles. I would like to quote alternate Helmut Schmidt, the former Social Democratic Party President and longtime German Chancellor, who has publicly declared these days: He, Schmidt, was not against these sanctions because he would suddenly sympathize with the FPÖ or with the ÖVP – not at all! – but because from the very beginning he had the feeling that there was a lime, a border, which was actually an inadmissible interference in the internal affairs of a member country of the European Union. – And Helmut Schmidt is right about that. I was sitting at the Bertelsmann Foundation last week next to Jacques Delors, the long-standing and highly esteemed EU President of the Social Democratic Commission. – By the way, so much on the subject of "isolation torture" that we meet today. – Jacques Delors was from the very beginning – and he confirmed this to me again in the private conversation – deeply opposed these sanctions, because as one of the few, he understood that this would cause damage to the European idea that it would take a long time to make up for it. [[Abg. May. Muttons: Don't turn off!]] Therefore, once again: Thanks to these two prominent social democrats, as well as the American ex-External Minister Henry Kissinger, who has also been at the Bertelsmann Forum, who expressed his disapproval of this interference in the internal affairs of a country as privately and publicly. It is also important – not to accuse someone now – to note here that together with the Austrian population we have gone a way, proving firmness, determination, but also flexibility. We have thus taken away the sanctions earlier than many believed and I have hoped. Therefore: Thank you, too, to the French who had the size in their presidency to end these sanctions, and without If and But. And I also respect the Belgians who have been very critical that they have fought shoulder to shoulder with us in Nice for a change within the European Union. The result can be seen: We have carried out all our ideas in hard negotiations: an early warning system within the Treaties, the European Parliament must agree – this is not a question of clarifying the Heads of Government in telephone contact with their consultants – a legal hearing at all stages of the process for all Member States, a requirement for grounds, a fairness of decisions, a regular duty to review and an audit by the European Court of Justice. We are satisfied with this result of Nice, and we can also be proud of the way Austria has gone last year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second one: Especially at European level, some concerns have been raised about an alleged alienation or distance from Austria from the European path. – The opposite was the case in these months, and Nice in particular has shown this dramatically. For example, in these months we have Europeanised the book anonymity. We have abolished them and replaced them with a better banking secret; we should have done so for a long time, we have resolved this failure relatively quickly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Edlinger didn't let that happen!]] A year ago, we heard massive criticism from the European Commission in terms of budget consolidation. – Now the Commission is talking about a spectacularly better budget by Karl-Heinz Grasser, the Finance Minister, and the entire government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Monetary Commissioner Pedro Solbes said: The budgetary situation has improved dramatically, and the Austrian Government has substantially strengthened its efforts to consolidate it; there is a great turn of events. – We have become European, ladies and gentlemen, not estranged or isolated! And this is what I would like to hold on to today, on this day when we are talking about Nice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But Nice, of course, marks a acidity, which I would like to express quite openly. Professor Weidenfeld has literally said this at the Bertelsmann Foundation – I think it's all right, and that's what it's all about: We are currently experiencing the quiet departure from the old Europe. We are in the midst of a historic acidity, which will introduce the beginning of a new epoch. As always, such a new start is linked to opportunities and risks. It is about these three major scenarios, which are now approaching, namely the introduction of the European currency in less than a year, enlargement in particular with regard to our neighbouring countries – at this point I also welcome some ambassadors here at the gallery – which will permanently change Europe and, in particular, Central Europe, but also the further development of Europe towards being not only an economic power and not only a civil power, but also a political power – with all instruments: from the currency and the economy to a secure European base of values, but also military or civil crisis management. This is a whole new situation, a whole new phase in which we are entering, but we also need to be careful that the European agenda does not become a "glass game" that citizens do not understand at all. I took with me a very exciting article, which appeared in December last year – just before Nice – in the "time". [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel keeps a page of a newspaper up to date.]] This article is from Tony Judd, one of those great intellectuals who sometimes deal with Europe's integration project very critically. But I think we should take so many criticisms seriously and also reflect. Tony Judd says: It must be possible to discuss such large differences also with Pro and Kontra, so that you can not describe everything with a moral cue as right and necessary, even just too alternatively and necessarily. And on top of that: No important decision is ever formulated today in Brussels as a dilemma, as a question of which advantages and disadvantages are balanced. It is always about the project as a moral fable and about the idea – in a misconceptional globalism – that one could almost abolish or weaken the nation states. Judd also says: Already around 1900, economists and political thinkers believed in Vienna and Budapest, the nation state and nationalism were anachronistic; Czechoslovakia or Austria, Hungary or Poland are merely reluctant demagogic promises at a time when the economies grew irreversibly. That's right: It is not a question of questioning, but of allowing questions and formulating them. And so I think the Nice Summit was an honest summit, because it also discussed the issues of power. The discussions were such that at times we have been struck up with different European concepts. I personally consider Nice to be a compromise – that is clear; what else if 15 countries sit around the table? – but a compromise which is not meant to be small, but which is to be taken seriously as a prerequisite for these changes – and now is to be ratified. The first important event, of course, is that Nice has created technical and institutional conditions for enlargement. For the first time in 40 years, in fact since the founding of the Union, we have made a lasting adjustment to the institutions of Europe. That was painful, not a question at all, but we did it. This allows our neighbours to enter this new Union, and they have the same rights and obligations. By the way, Austria was a lawyer of this equal rights of our neighbors and candidates. It seems important to me that we do not have members of two classes in the new Europe: the old members and those to be invited again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, on a proposal from the Commission, we have also decided on a specific negotiating timetable. Especially for the next 18 months, there are now very precise ideas about when to adopt which topic. There was even hope – a hope expressly formulated – that the first date for accession could be such that the most qualified candidates could already participate in the next European election. This is ambitious, but institutionally the way is open. Now it is up to the candidates to actually implement this in the negotiations. For the first time, we have also made it quite clear that there must be transitional periods, a certain flexibility to meet the candidates. There are currently more than 500 different transitional periods or transitional possibilities from the different countries, and there are a few areas that are also important to us. I would like to urge here, like Germany and the German Chancellor, we also discussed this in Nice, to include urgently the need for a transitional period, a seven-year transitional period from the accession for the liberalisation of the labour market and for cross-border services. It is only Germany and Austria with a common border of more than 1,000 kilometres each directly and directly affected by this question. I believe that now, according to these statements, the Commission will also work on such a reasonable plan. The Foreign Minister has some great ideas, which we now want to implement: on the one hand, to form strategic partnerships with neighbouring countries, but also Austrian forums for discussion and negotiation, as well as information platforms within, so that this project of enlargement can be believed and understood and adopted by the population. With the opportunities one must also see the risks of enlargement. We fear that problems can arise in border regions. In this respect, Nice was very important to us, because for the first time – on Austrian initiative – the Commission was commissioned by the Heads of State and Government to propose a programme to strengthen the economic competitiveness of the border regions. I wrote a letter to Commission President Prodi a few days ago and told him that we hope that this Commission proposal, already discussed in advance with Commissioner Verheugen, will be presented under Swedish Presidency, that the PHARE and INTERREG programmes will be better supported and that we will also provide an internal impetus for enlargement to become a real opportunity. - I hope you're going along. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, the most sensitive were the institutional issues, in particular - you know - concerning the European Commission. The French Presidency in particular wanted the reform to benefit from a massive reduction of the Commission to ten members. The idea of hierarchization was of course behind it: The large countries should have a more visible power within the Commission, sometimes alternatively, sometimes cumulatively. On the other hand, we have resisted massively, and I believe that I have achieved an important success with other small countries. Many national governments today have more than 20 members; Austria has one of the smallest European governments, and I think that is a good thing. But I think we should talk about the efficiency of the Commission. Above all, we should strengthen the President, and this has happened in Nice with the regulation of the resignation of a Commissioner when the confidence of the President and the College is lost. It must not be that there is, as it were, a political Pragmatization there – no matter what someone does. That was an Austrian initiative, and that has been implemented in this Treaty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Austrian representative – this is a fundamental principle for us – remains for a very long time in all European institutions – the Commission, the European Court of Justice, the European Court of Auditors. De facto will be effective immediately from the next enlargement of the relinquishing of the large countries to the second Commissioner, and then the principle of "one Commissioner to each country" will apply until the 27. Member will be a member. That will be a long time, I say quite openly here. ==References====External links== Member States will take a joint decision on what the new situation is to look like, with a very equal rotation already taking place. The most difficult area was the weighting of votes. That's a question of power. Of course, we have our national interests on the one hand, but above all the situation that Austria is a country which is a net payer and, of course, we want to preserve the present, better position of smaller and medium-sized countries on the other. We have entered into the contract: Any decision of the Union may not only have a majority of votes, it must also have the majority of states behind it. – This is a point that was partly fought violently by the major countries. I mean, we have achieved a very good result for ourselves. In the negotiation process, we first had eight, then nine, and at the end ten votes. That means our relationship remains well preserved. In the future, we have a 1.5 percent population, a 2.6 percent budget share and a vote weight of over 4 percent, and after the expansion of around 3 percent. I think we have done a good deal with this result. For "fine tip": It was planned by the larger countries that the six major ones should have 55 percent of the power in the Council after enlargement. After the negotiations, we calculated exactly where we stand, and see here: After this negotiation result, the small and medium-sized ones have a majority of 51 percent to 49 percent. So we didn't cut it off badly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, the mistake of beauty – you have to admit this openly – is that the threshold is too high for a qualified majority. There are actually three obstacles to a positive decision at all: the majority of the votes of all states, the majority of the votes of the states and a majority of the population. This is, of course, a point that is an absolute flaw of beauty. In turn, the greats have exerted their interests massively, fighting for them to have, so to speak, a veto position. I think we should change the way we think about it. In the European thought world, it must be more important to spend something than to want to block something. In sensitive questions, one must remain with unanimity anyway. I really cannot see why a decision taken by a majority vote should be less valuable from the outset than a decision taken in consensus. In principle, it is always better to have a consensus. But this is not always the case, as we know from the inside. The transition to a qualified majority will be a subject that the Foreign Minister will discuss in more detail. It has been important to me that the sensitive points remain fully preserved for us. Water, spatial planning and land use remain the subject of unanimity, that is, Austria alone has the say. This must remain so, not only now, but also in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There has to be unanimity on the issue of traffic, which concerns sensitive issues – fundamental issues, international negotiations. I believe that you will agree to me when I say that it was always a concern of all Austrian parties wherever they may stand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] – We have kept this up, Mrs Lichtenberger, and you can be quite unaware of it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Transit contract!]] With regard to asylum, migration and refugees, Austria has presented a relatively creative proposal, which was finally accepted. It's about the first right: If the European Union decides its right for the first time, this must be the case unanimously. Later amendments can be made by a majority. This seems to be very important because no one should issue a blank check on what such an asylum, refugee or migration policy will look like. We want to be sure that this will happen initially in consensus. This will be a very important issue in tomorrow's Europe. The fourth area, which will be entirely new and decisive and which will remove Europe far beyond the level of an economic or civil community, is the question of the Union of Defence and Security. There have been preparations, particularly in recent months. In November 2000, all 15 Member States went through credible and binding commitments to improve the European position in this civilian and military crisis management. The three bodies – the political, the military and the planning committee – have now been established permanently, permanently and efficiently. We have begun consultations with all possible partner organisations and neighbouring countries. What is still open is the part that brings a commitment not only to soldiers – Austria has committed itself to 3,500 soldiers that we can bring in at any time in the event of a crisis – but above all there must also be an area...
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8561	Mr Bundeskanzler, we agreed to a speaking time of 25 minutes at the President-in-Office's Conference, which you have now exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8582	Can I add two final sentences? – This is important because the question of police units – more than 5,000 are being considered – should be ended and clarified under Swedish Presidency. Fifthly, a debate on the future of Europe has been agreed in Nice. This should not only start at the level of the Heads of Government, but I would suggest that we in Austria, with Parliament, with the countries, with the scientists and with the public, also start a great discussion process with us to determine what contribution Austria will make to this discussion. I very much hope you will agree to this success of Nice. We'll deal with it even more in detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8618	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the speaking time and on the order of the speakers on Agenda item 1 as follows: In the first round, each speaker will have 15 minutes at his disposal per group. Ms. Vice-Chancellor followed with 15 minutes. According to Mrs Vice-Chancellor, one more speaker of each group will have a speaking time of 6 minutes. With regard to other speakers, there is no special agreement. As the first speaker, Mr Gusenbauer spoke.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8656	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for making it clear by quoting European social-democratic politicians that the imposition of sanctions was not a social-democratic conspiracy, but rather an initiative by his party colleagues Chirac and Aznar. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion I would also remind him of the fact that he is talking about the abolition... – Mr colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Is it too long for you yesterday? Are you unable to listen for two minutes? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We drank at least wine – and no champagne!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You have pointed out that the basis... [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Freedom and Deputies of the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's already under the subway with his level!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You would love to throw us out!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor pointed out, however, that the measures that have been repealed by the EU-14 have failed to refer to a context that is at least relevant in the political debate, namely the "wise" report, which is the basis for the repeal of these measures. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... all the transmission!]] After a few months, Federal Chancellor, I would remind you to read again in this "wise" report what is said there about the political character of your coalition partner. To this day, your coalition partner has not changed this character to the positive, but – as we notice daily – only to the negative. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have talked about the Europeanisation of Austrian domestic policy, using fiscal consolidation. They quoted Commissioner Pedro Solbes, but as so often, they did only half that. In his assessment, he pointed out that fiscal consolidation would only be sustainable if the one-off measures imposed so far were replaced by sustainable structural reforms and the government did not proceed again soon to make new additional expenditure in the sense of increasing transfer payments. [[Abg. Großruck: For example in the main association!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The praise you have quoted, you have only half reflected, because it has only been achieved half the way of budget consolidation! The second step still stands out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we now turn to the results of Nice and you have conjured liberality in this context, the discussion in alternatives and the non-festival position on an alternative position, I believe that this position you have presented here today stands in blatant contradiction to your own practice as head of government. They try – as before at the media debate – to present only what the government does every day as the only beautiful, true and good, and are not ready to discuss alternatives. What you want for Europe should you first practice in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Somehow, it gives the impression that in order to cover up the real government policy, there are always some images of enemies that are intended to be used to deceive over the real problem. They act as if the European Union were threatening Austrian waters, and they do not fear that it is in reality your government that threatens access to public water through the sale of the Federal Forests and their shares. That is the truth, which stands out internally, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, in the future, Austrians will have less access to the forest in the central areas, if part of the water will be sold to private individuals, then the European Union will not bear the responsibility for it, but your federal government with its wrong privatisation policy. You can't move that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have appreciated Nice's results positively, and you have said that the prerequisite for enlargement has been created. [[Abg. Großruck: Meriting is usually positive!]] I would restrict and say: The formal conditions for enlargement are now in place. They have been formalised by the changes in the institutions. But one question that moves everyone today who is dealing with Europe is the following: On the basis of the fact that there has been no simplification of the decision-making procedures and no extension of the majority decisions, the question arises whether a Europe of 20 or 27 in which it will be much more difficult than in the Europe of 15 to reach a consensus in all detail, whether this Europe of the future will really be a political, social and economic integrated Europe or whether Europe will fall back to the level of a free trade zone due to this poor preparation. [[Abg. Young: These are loud social democratic governments, Mr. Colleague!]] You know very well that this is the great challenge facing Europe and that has not yet been dealt with in Nice because the Heads of Government have not been able to agree on a procedure that makes Europe more decision-making and decision-making more effective. [[Abg. Young: Tell Blair!]] This is a very crucial question for Austria in particular, ladies and gentlemen, because small countries, especially in the centre of Europe, are much more dependent on an integrated Europe and not on a Europe that is characterised only by the cooperation of the states under the control of the large states. We have not only become a member of the European Union on the basis of our European political awareness, but also because we believe that the Austrians will have a better future in an integrated Europe than in a Europe of loose cooperation. This step – unfortunately, I say – has not succeeded in Nice. This step must first be taken by Europe, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are talking about the fact that Europe is not just in economic cooperation, I fully agree with you that it should not be so. But it must be possible to note that it was not possible to achieve substantial progress in Nice on issues of European social policy, taxation policy and internal policy. If we are talking about a Europe that is not just the subject of diplomats, but a Europe of people, of workers, of workers, it is the crucial question of the contribution of this Europe to ensure a peaceful, social and developed co-existence. The question to be asked is: Did Nice make a contribution to this? [[Abg. Grandruck: Comrade Schröder...!]] – I say: No, no, no, The Heads of State or Government have fulfilled the duty to achieve the formal requirements. But a step forward towards more quality of Europe, which ultimately brings Europe closer to people, unfortunately, this crucial step in Nice has not succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must, of course, ask ourselves this question when we discuss enlargement. I believe that every Central and Eastern European country has the natural right to participate in European integration. And I fully share the view that countries should not be divided into individual groups. But it is also clear that each country must meet the conditions for accession. Therefore, enlargement is not only a requirement for the European Union, for Austria, but also for those countries that want to join. These are not only economic requirements and not only social requirements, but also legal and democratic requirements. But it should be open to the door in the sense of extending the zone of peace and stability. If you share this perspective, you have to ask yourself the question of what Austria is doing in order to really promote this process, which Austria is contributing to the fact that it is no longer in the peripheral position of the European Union in the future, but it is geographically, politically and economically central to Europe. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to say quite openly to you: The policy of recent months with your statements to the Slovenian President, partly also with statements from other colleagues in the government towards Czech, Polish and Hungarian politicians, was not a contribution to strengthening the position of Austria's neighbours, but quite the opposite was the case, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It also raises the question of whether the Nice format, namely an Intergovernmental Conference, is appropriate to shape the future of Europe. If each of these Intergovernmental Conferences follows the logic of "What can I get out for myself?" This method is actually blocking common results, which means that Europe remains on the track. I therefore believe that the consideration is fully justified, which reads as follows: The future of Europe cannot be left to the Heads of State or Government alone, but it is a kind of convention, which also marked the preparation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, probably the better way to bring Europe's different interests in order to ensure that it is not always a struggle of government against the other, but rather the interests of citizens and thus the interests of Europe as a whole. I would be pleased, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if your announcement to hold a broad debate in Austria would result in the fact that Europe's further development is carried out by a convention and not by an intergovernmental conference, because this seems to me to be the better way for Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They pointed out that, in the course of the enlargement process, there are not only positive opportunities for Austria, but there are also dangers there and there, especially in the border regions. I would like to point out to you that, when we talk about Austrian border regions, we must bear in mind that we are talking about Austrian agglomerations, because both Linz and Vienna and Graz are close to those borders that will cover the enlargement areas. And we are talking about a living and economic area in which most of the Austrian population lives. Therefore, especially in Austria, it is important to prepare this enlargement significantly better than elsewhere, not only through transitional periods, but also through the provision of the appropriate infrastructure, which also promotes growth in these regions, not only through transitional periods, but also through a consistent fight against illegal employment today, and not only through the removal of the European Commission, which is now to make programmes, but through its own initiative by the Austrian Federal Government together with the federal states and the social partners. Enlargement will only be a success for the enlargement countries and for Austria if it is well prepared and the fears and interests of the Austrian population are taken seriously, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen! Listen! Gusenbauer reads from the SPÖ program!]] Since I am a full defender of the enlargement of the European Union because I believe that the project of peace and stability in Western Europe has proved successful and should therefore be made accessible to a larger Europe, as I am such a defender, I am interested in the fact that this enlargement is well prepared so that it will be a success for all concerned. We must assume this responsibility together!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8927	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e8948	Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost a year, quite exactly a year since the EU-14 imposed those measures on Austria that were later referred to as the "punishments". What's going on? – An example should be set on the example of Austria, a smaller country. Each middle-right government should immediately be struck with the fascism clause, with reference to European values, when communists and socialists are replaced by parties of the middle and the right. That was the goal, and this Target has failed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Greens, Mr Van der Bellen, and especially Mr Voggenhuber, have implemented and supported these sanctions. [[Abg. Murauer: I think so!]] They later became smarter, faster than the Social Democrats, as they are even faster than the Social Democrats, and then rejected the sanctions, not because they are unjust and unjust, but because they are not gruesome, non-effective and meet the wrong ones. But they were for it. Then I remember that the former German Chancellor climate on the 19th century. It has demonstrated vehemently against the government participation of the FPÖ. Resistance! Resistance!, he called. He blew the vibration pipe, with other prominent officials of the Social Democracy in Austria, at Heldenplatz. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That was the cast farmer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What do you think all these demonstrators thought of when they read on Sunday in the "Small Newspaper" that the Social Democrats – confirmed by Klubobmann Kostelka – have worked intensively for a government participation of the FPÖ under socialist leadership? Yes, what do you think the listeners thought of themselves when they were on the 29th. Januaryen in the ORF Eye-Witness News – that is, eyewitness reports – saw what Mr. Klima, Mr. Schlögl, Social Democracy, tried to bring the FPÖ to the government for two days? [[Abg. Edlinger: That's absurd!]] – Mr Edlinger! Maybe you don't know everything. Mr. Van der Bellen! How do you feel? Take a look at what I'm saying. They are going to demonstrate together with the Social Democrats on Heroes Square, against the government participation of FPÖ, and then a year later on television Mr Schlögl says: I did this! And then one comes to insist that a government assignment of the FPÖ first as a support of a minority government, later marriage possible, failed only because it was not given in writing. How can you explain such a thing? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] What do you think the Austrians think they have seen that the Social Democrats have been trying for two days for the liberals, but then, when the liberals form a government with the ÖVP, go to Heroic Square and "Resistance! Resistance!" Call? – I believe that you, Mr Gusenbauer, will have to explain this, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: This is false!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer: An untruth is not true by repetition!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The sanctions were unjust, they were wrong, but the worst is, they were stupid! And stupidity is immediately punished with ridiculousness in international politics. On the measures: I was called Vice Chancellor, who is now Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, at about 1.30 p.m., and there was explained to me – Wolfgang Schüssel told me –: Imagine Gama calling, there are three measures here, but that remains secret, that is still being negotiated! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: He shouldn't have talked to you at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am ashamed that I later had to learn that, three hours later, these sanctions were in the newspapers on Austrian invitation, in all media, because it was expected that pressure on the ÖVP could be exerted not to form this government. That's what happened from Austria, so it was said. If that's really true, I'm ashamed of it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a year later, the sanctions are gone. Our foreign policy has a new and successful basis, and Europe's policy has also been reformed. Smaller countries have shown their teeth, and smaller countries have not been overburdened at the Intergovernmental Conference. The smaller countries – and there we were Austrian leaders in it – have shown the bigger countries the teeth in the Nice Intergovernmental Conference. The Socialist International has also failed. If in Italy, Silvio Berlusconi and his coalition take over the government – that seems to be it – then he will be lucky that the Social Democrats have already experienced their international borders, and then this example that was tried on Austria will no longer be repeated for failure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At this point, I would like to thank the members of the government, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, Mr Bundeskanzler, for what a great attitude she had in international mubbing, for nothing else has survived, and that they have shown no effect as it is in the boxing language. They smiled, they endured with great attitude and dignity, they sat on the longer branch. Their patience was the cause, because in the end the story has given them justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The only really negative effect of the sanctions, apart from the major disturbance that these measures have caused domestically, which was only a really negative consequence of the failure of the euro project by this stupid action in Denmark, so that Sweden does not try and that Tony Blair, the UK wants to bring to the euro zone, has been thrown back into years. This is a serious negative consequence. Small causes – big effects. But by the way – ladies and gentlemen, you certainly know the saying: God also writes on curved lines – this action has had good effects. As positive I feel that the talk of the German-French engine of integration was once and for all degenerated as propaganda. Because it doesn't matter to the engine, it depends on the people who are there. A Schröder is not a Helmut Kohl, and a Jacques Chirac is not a François Mitterrand either. We've experienced it. So the German-French engine, which would of course have passed over us to say that in clear text, did not drive. We have defended our headquarters in the Commission, even though the Commission has not praised itself in this experience of sanctions. There's a lot to people, too. A Jacques Delors, a sincere social-democratic trade unionist, would not have supported the Commission, as was the case with Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We have achieved our goals in Nice. We have the seat in the Commission, we have a weight of votes that will secure us co-determination, there will be no French-German board, all states are the same. A procedure has been set up through the Austrian proposal that such an unjust, illegal sanction procedure can no longer happen to a Member State. Finally, the principle of unanimity has been maintained on very important issues, as far as water is concerned, with regard to the spatial planning of our nuclear energy freedom. All of this has been secured by our Federal Government in Nice. I am sure that this mobbing against Austria has helped because many smaller countries have said that there must no longer be any more in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer! I wanted to tell you: The purpose does not sanctify the means. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: No, that's interesting!]] You did not say that, but you did drink with Mr Pierre Moscovici Champagne at the time, and there you intervened on this occasion for the sanctions to take over Austria for a year and there was an international monitoring. I understand that you are suffering from the fact that you are no longer in the Federal Government, it is a legitimate purpose of you. You kept Taferl up here, too. But also in this case I must tell you that this actistic means of Taferl can apply Jörg Haider and the Greens better than you. They make nice Taferl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, you want to know who the next Federal Chancellor or the next Federal Chancellor will be. This is a legitimate purpose, but this purpose is not sanctified by the means that you support illegal means abroad, namely these sanctions, with non-friends of Austria. Act as a Patriot in the future! That should be your learning process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nice is the beginning of the development of a European Constitution. And I listened very closely to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany when he outlined this constitutional process. I also believe that we should replace this unclear work of the European Union with a constitutional treaty in which there are fundamental European rights, where there is a division of tasks between Brussels, the national states, the countries and the municipalities in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, where there is a precise system of how countries are more involved in the formation of will. I believe – and I listened to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I would like to strengthen that – that we should complement the procedure of the European Convention on Fundamental Rights. This was a fundamental right convention in which non-judicial experts, including politicians, also sat. As a result, this Charter of Fundamental Rights was not considered mandatory and correct by any of the major countries. That's not how it's going. This European constitutional development must involve the European Parliament as a Parliament, and the national parliaments, that is, our National Council and our Federal Council, must be involved in this European Constitutional Treaty. Mr Bundeskanzler, I expect your commitment to be implemented as well. Ladies and gentlemen! The Treaty of Nice continues. There's a trial after that. With the sanctions, the Austrian population has survived the storm, and I would also like to thank the Austrians for the support that has helped us to survive the storm. You know: If the wind blows sharp somewhere, then there's one who's looking for shelter and who's hiding. . But our Federal Government has helped this sharp wind to set sails to continue the ship Europe and Austria. [[Abg. Edlinger: At Heroesplatz! The government is buried underground!]] I thank her for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9153	Mr Kostelka spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please start by replaying the allegation to be corrected and by contrasting this claim with the right one.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9178	Mr Khol, as you have the right to do, the purpose does not justify the means and the participation of government does not justify the untruth. You said in your speech that I was negotiating with representatives of the liberals about a social-democratic-liberary government. – This is incorrect, and I know you know that this is wrong. True is rather – please read, ladies and gentlemen, in the "Small Newspaper"! –: ==References== In October 1999, there was a conversation between Schüssel and Haider, in which everything was agreed: this blue-black government. Three and a half months, ladies and gentlemen, were negotiated and probed – all chimary. Everything was already done, namely, the government of Schüssel – Haider, as it was still meant at the time.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9213	Mr Dr. Khol spoke on a personal reply.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9238	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was accused of untruth, so I was personally addressed that I had not said the truth. I'm clear: Mr Kostelka negotiated with Klubobmann Scheibner during a meeting of the Western European Union on support for a government formed by the SPÖ by the FPÖ in December. [[Abg. Ritsmer: No!]] This was confirmed in the "Small Newspaper". As far as Mr Schlögl and Mr. Klima are concerned, the "Report" was held on 29 October. Mr Schlögl's friends personally confirmed that such negotiations had taken place.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9273	Mr Dr. Gusenbauer. You know § 58 para. 2 GOG. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9298	Mr Khol said I had been drinking champagne with Mr Moscovici. - That's right. And I say that he has also tasted great, Mr Khol. However, Mr Khol has also claimed that I would have called for the sanctions against Austria to be extended. It is true that I spoke to Moscovici about how to find a way out of this situation. And by the way, I'd say: Whenever Parliamentary Khol feels affected because he is accused of untruth, this should not be an occasion for personal response, for he has used for himself: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not an actual correction!]] "The truth is a daughter of the time." – Mr Khol! That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9333	Mr Van der Bellen has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9355	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! All the ladies and gentlemen in the government! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I will say something about Nice and then go to the Heroes Square and the so-called Penalties – so you have a mirror on your structure, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Refer to the table of contents!]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel! Of course, the Treaty of Nice is not all bad. That's out of question. It is also very good that the procedure, which facilitates the election of the President of the Commission, has been simplified. In particular, we think it is very good that the rights of the President of the Commission have been strengthened, in particular the right to release another Commissioner. And there are some other points. But since my time is limited, I'm only going to look at what we consider to be particularly critical. First of all, this is the lack of democratisation, the lack of steps in the democratisation of the Union, and secondly the question of whether the EU has really made itself more effective in terms of enlargement. That's the big question of price. As far as democratization is concerned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council or Mr Khol, you will agree with me, as I believe, that was practically not the subject of this summit. Nothing has gone on, including with regard to additional rights, essential additional rights of the EU Parliament. That was just not on the agenda. That was not the subject of this summit. In this context, which seems to have not been the main issue, the division of violence within the EU, as we have been saying for decades at national level – it has been exaggerating for centuries – has been known for decades, the separation between legislative, executive and judicial systems, and what this looks like at EU level, primarily with the domination of the Council. There has been no change in the Council's domination in Nice, in Nice. That is why I was very happy to hear from Chancellor Schüssel today that he is also supporting a post-nizza process, for example in a process close to the Convention as it was implemented in the development of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. That's a very important idea. If, in the coming months, it becomes clear that there will be a serious post-Nizza process, a constitutional process, a process that is seriously concerned with the issue of competences between the EU and the individual Member States, this is not irrelevant to the issue of our ratification of the Nice Treaty. I'll say it that way. At present, the signs do not stand for approval. The second major problem is the ability to act, the efficiency, if you want to, of decision-making in the EU. Federal Chancellor Schüssel himself dealt with the question that the decision-making by qualified majority was by far not extended to that extent, as should have been the case, with regard to the 15, let alone 20 or 27 members of the Union. But not just that. The decision-making has not only been simplified, but has been made more difficult by this third requirement of the majority of the population in certain decisions. So with an increase in block-minorities in decision-making in the EU, enlargement will certainly not really be possible. Certain technical requirements were met in Nice: Vote weighting in the Council, seats of the new Member States in the EU Parliament, but beyond that, is not solved, and this is particularly disappointing to us, because we are supporters of enlargement. We think this is a historic project, a project of historical scale. Nice has somehow remained in the national interests. The great vision has been missing, including with regard to enlargement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I'm going to the heroic square, but Klubobmann Khol has come away from me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on the slightly distant Abg. There he is!]] Okay, thank you. Would have been a pity, Mr. Khol. So first of all: At Heroes Square there were 200 000 to 300,000 people at that time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 150!]] They say it was 150,000. I don't think you, Mr. Khol, have personally counted there, or have you been incognito there? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The police said that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Have you also demonstrated? - I don't think so. So hundreds of thousands of people were there. That wasn't a SPÖ demonstration, it wasn't a green demonstration, it was a demonstration of civil associations that organized it. Everyone knows. I was there too. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't negotiate with the FPÖ!]] Sure. But it wasn't a green event. Do you think we're gonna get 300,000 people to the heroic square? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 150 000 either!]] - Not without any further information. Not yet, Mr. Khol! Not yet! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Climate and FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't negotiate with the FPÖ, but the climate has it!]] I didn't negotiate with the FPÖ. First of all, I wanted to say that. I was not a member of the SPÖ negotiating team. That is why, of course, I cannot say very much about this question. But everyone knew that there are, for example, Mr Bartenstein on the side of the ÖVP, who has good contacts with the FPÖ, and on the side of the SPÖ there were also certain politicians – I don't need to name any names – who have maintained such contacts over the years. What I can only say myself is: When the whole thing was over, so when the government negotiations between SPÖ and ÖVP were over and the idea of a minority government climate, as they say, stood in space, I have already wondered: A minority government must be tolerated for a while. The Greens are not yet enough – I am not your opinion – to tolerate a SPÖ government. [[Abg. Böhacker: Will never be enough!]] The ÖVP had just been disputed. So the suspicion was obvious that there is someone in the SPÖ who is concerned about whether the FPÖ and under what conditions et cetera, et cetera would be willing to tolerate a climate government for a few months. This is a technical consideration of a political interested person. The anniversary of the so-called sanctions. [[Call at the ÖVP: Then the climate would still be here, and the "Grolli" would not be alone!]] – That really hit me deeply. That was the worst news this week. The poor dog! So you really don't deal with dogs, that has to be said at this point. [[Congratulation with the Greens, the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] On the so-called sanctions. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Khol! It is good that Article 7 has been reformed. I do not think that is the yellow of the egg yet, but it is a first reform of Article 7 of the EU Treaty. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has said that these measures of the EU-14 have violated the spirit of the European Treaties. – What spirit is that? – I see at least two ghosts there: The one spirit, which I believe was actually hurt – and I made that quite clear last year, also relatively soon – is the missing legal basis for improvisation of the EU-14; so it cannot be. The other spirit, however, was the motive behind that – and this is clear from the three "wise" report – the question – I express myself very carefully – of the possible violation of Article 6, not Article 7. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 6, yes!]] With regard to Article 6 – democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and everything related to them – there were concerns. I mean, as far as the suspicion of the violation of Article 6 is concerned, this is not a interference in the internal affairs of an EU country. It was not in the case of Austria, and it will hopefully not be with other countries, if, for example, the Flemish Bloc or the Lega Nord are in a national government. This type of interference with regard to Article 6 is necessary and legitimate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is precisely the identity of the European Union. I hope so. What else, if not these famous European values admitted in Article 6 – admitted: only sketches; but after all! - can be found. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But democracy is also a fundamental value! The choice!]] Yeah, yeah. And that's what I'm measuring you, Mr. Khol. There is the report of the "three wise men". A three "wise" report will be possible in the future. Article 7 explicitly provides that independent personalities may be requested by the Council to submit a report within a time limit and so on. A three- "wise" report, second edition, about any country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is not defined what "Wise" are!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, "Independent personalities," it says. Now I'm asking: Have you read the three "wise" report and drawn any consequences from it? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Yeah, really? "One can only conclude from this" (point 103), "that the systematic use of insult procedures to suppress criticism of ambiguous statements gives rise to serious concern about the political debate led by the FPÖ in Austria". That's still the case. Still, there are intimidation attempts at all levels, waves of complaints against all those who dare to criticize either the government or the FPÖ in particular – nothing has changed! – until the attempt to intimidate the ORF. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Petrovic]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] – My mood never improves when I think of the FPÖ, Mr Schweitzer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer is the only minister under massive attack in this three-way report. What about bad can one say about a minister than that he has violated his duties as a state body? – Consequences: Several ministers have resigned, but not Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He won't!]] He's still a member of your federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He remains!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You may have learned from this that this has gone a little too far to try to arrest opposition representatives and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: No one wants that either!]] That is why other methods are considered. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The sources of money turn around to bring irrevocable organizations to the Raeson in this way, up to Mr. Sallmutter, where you are trying to stop people unlawfully. [[==References====External links== Dr. Ofner]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that's not the worst thing at all. The worst thing is – I can remind you – the FPÖ as a "right-wing populist party with extremist expression" – this characterization does not come from me, but from the "three wise ones". Point 92 – Read! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] There is a very simple, small party member who has recently publicly said: [[Abg. May. Swiss: Blank nonsense!]] The young Schimanek is sentenced and imprisoned in Austria because he has participated in a military exercise. [[Call to the liberals: Eight years!]] - That was Jörg Haider. Skill Do you remember what this practice of sports was, Mr. Khol? – This "sporting practice" was, among other things, because these young people were taught how to cut the throat of others. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That was the practice! – This was a clearly neo-national socialist event! [[Call the Freeman:Joschka Fischer!]] And with those people who make such statements publicly, Mr. Khol, you are in a coalition! That's your partner! – This is not Article 6, which covers such statements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9724	The next speaker is Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9759	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen has done it again or has tried – he rarely succeeds anyway – to make a bit of vortex, and has criticized statements. Mr Van der Bellen, as long as you are not here to distance yourself from this speaker's seat or anywhere else in the public once and for a time clearly and clearly from your German comrade, from your comrade Joschka Fischer and his violent acts, you are totally unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They were the ones who drove to Mr Fischer during the time of the sanctions and held press conferences with him – against Austria – and also encouraged and represented the sanctions. They were the ones who, in the end, acted with Mr Fischer in sad opposition to Austria, Mr Van der Bellen. You can't strip this off today, no more than the constant accusations against Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger]] Unfortunately, I say now from your point of view, during your speech – you cannot therefore know – the latest report from Mr Ludwig Adamovich has come in – you know him, he is the President of the Constitutional Court. Today, Adamovich, in a significant speech to the Graz Legal Society, has found that not only the sanctions were "indiscriminate by international law" but also – and this is very interesting; he is concerned about what the three so-called ways in the report on the Minister of Justice - the accusations against Bohemian in the "wise" report are clearly "too strict" because they refer to the behaviour – I add: to non-wrong conduct – of the Minister in his past as a lawyer and therefore are not legitimate. That's a real analysis. We can fully support this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is what the President of the Constitutional Court of Justice has said, Mr Van der Bellen, you should take note of that. [[Abg. Edlinger: As a minister, he's supposed to defend the Haider, that's great!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Edlinger, listen!]] I would just like to add one sentence to the debate, as it really was at the time: Of course, it was true that the then party-president climate in his despair, in which he was probably at the time, because he did not establish a government, made a number of offers in a four-eye conversation with Jörg Haider. I do not reveal a secret because it has already been said in many publications when I say: Of course he said: Come on, support a minority government, then you'll get four ministers! – Only: With the FPÖ, such a business cannot be done. Climate didn't want a written agreement yet. So he wanted to make us an immoral offer, and we did not accept this, but rejected it – from today's point of view, it is good, because that is what today's government has achieved. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] ==References== January 2000, that is, exactly today a year ago, has actually missed the events. It was an incredible, also media interesting day: eight velocities – I looked at it – sent the APA. It was a day when other events took place hourly. It started at 11.46: That was a rather uninteresting report. The SPÖ has announced that there is a new Federal Managing Director: Gusenbauer replaces Rudas, the message was at 11.46. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] This was at the beginning, was even more uninteresting, was also not an Eult message, but a normal report that there is thus a new Federal Managing Director. And then it went on: At 12.34: Belgium's Foreign Minister is considering the appointment of the Belgian Ambassador. At 1:54 p.m.: EU countries are voting in response to FPÖ participation. At 15.50 p.m.: EU Presidency announces Austria's declaration. At 5:15 p.m.: France is delegating all EU ambassadors to the discussion. EU explicitly warns Austria against taking FPÖ into the government. At 5:45 a.m. – that was not an Eult message, but already an alarm message, higher priority, comes in red over the screen –: EU: no bilateral contacts with FPÖ government. At 5:56 p.m.: Ambassador contacts are restricted. At 18.26: The EU threatens Austria with the toughest measures in the area of coalition with FPÖ. To this end, we need to know that this increase in the threat from the Sanctionsians and the European Union has taken place at the time when the decisive round of negotiations between FPÖ and ÖVP took place to form the government. The beautiful thing about this day is that he also ended up with an Oil Message: At 21.36: FP-VP negotiations: Agreed on the budget. And that's the good thing: We have worked, we have acted, we have formed a government, and we have not been influenced by these threats, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But that confirms what Klubobmann Khol also did: Until the end, bending and breaking with many telephone calls and to Austria was trying to prevent this government – alone, it has not succeeded. What happened in the next few days on the part of the Austrian opposition together with the Sanctionaries, the Austrians still have in the best bad memory: The opposition further heated up the debate about the sanctions, and it began this inconceivable tourism of the then party chairman Gusenbauer. Mr Gusenbauer, I have to correct you, because once again you have only said half the truth: Well, of course, in May in Berlin, you asked for the following – I have it here –: Gusenbauer calls for sanctions to last for at least one year! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – You have called for a one year extension of sanctions in Berlin! You have made a joint declaration with the Socialist International, in which you are fully behind the sanctions. They held a party meeting where the seniors and representatives from there were allowed to get a stage and act against Austria. They agreed with the Belgians. And you're gonna have to do something about yourself today: You have, of course, taken it away with me, because I also put it here about a year ago – the Sanctioners, with the French, you have said it yourself, drink good champagne. [[the speaker places a photo on the speaker's desk]] He also tasted you when you started. Today, on the anniversary, I think you should put a special gesture. Unfortunately, they have not yet said – people may be interested in this – what a good drop that was. Was it Dom Perignon, was it Veuve Cliquot or was it perhaps Moët & Chandon? – I don’t know, you didn’t say it, but we’ve been thinking about something that should also be related to your current and then statements and also to the sanctions – because these sanctions and many statements were a special holler. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf brings a bottle of wine to the speaker's desk.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's why we're giving you a good drop today: really Austrian Hollersect, which you're getting from us today, Mr. Gusenbauer. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I hope that today, a year later, you can enjoy these drops well, but also go a little bit – and I'll come back to the seriousness of the matter again – when you let this good drop down, because I think you have missed a very big opportunity today. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf presents Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer the bottle of Hollersect.]] On the anniversary of the exclamation of sanctions you have missed a great opportunity: With one year's distance, you should have had the size of admitting this mistake here today and apologizing to the fact that you did damage to Austria at the time. That would have been right, but not circulations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! What you painted on the wall did not happen, but you have always tried to raise awareness and make this government worse internationally. We know what role you have played in the sanctions through your travels to different countries. Even in November of last year, when a large OSCE conference took place in Austria, you have also tried to make this government worse internationally, by talking to several media in a "press hour" and then that this government is not democratically legitimate. In this context too, a word of regret would not have been too much today. Finally, I say to you: You're still going to do that. Mr Gusenbauer, you spoke yesterday at a press conference, i.e. around this anniversary of sanctions, of all serious that this government or a party of that government should impose political death sentences on party days, which will then be executed by individual ministers in the days thereafter. Mr Gusenbauer, you really did not understand democracy. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] It is an immense derailment that you should take back! That's what we want from you and nothing else! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Nice, it is quite clear that Europe has also learned and, of course, has learned. And if anything was good, then the procedure under Article 7 which was now at least initiated in a first step, so that such absurd night and fog actions, as they were clear, are no longer possible. The Chancellor has said that, of course, the rule of law is being gradually strengthened and improved by Article 7 procedure, because there can no longer be arbitrary actions, because there are early mechanisms, because the European Parliament must also agree to such sanctions, because there is also a legal hearing, a hearing on all procedural issues – also a point that was deeply contrary to us, namely that Austria has not even been heard. Furthermore, there is a duty to state reasons, and ultimately decisions must also be appropriate – which was certainly not the case. There is also a regular review obligation. If there is a single little positive aspect of these sanctions, then those who have now come as a partial result of Nice to this procedure, which we naturally welcome, which has long been necessary and which was ultimately initiated by proposals by free politicians there. This is a success we would like to take note of. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The reactions to the Nice Summit were, of course, inconvenient. One has spoken of the greatest summit in history, the other of failure and setback. The truth is in the middle as so often. I believe that a point has to be highlighted in particular, namely that at the beginning of this summit and even in the days before, there has been a very large contrast between the large and small countries, which was initially very clear at the summit. I say this quite openly: Some large countries have behaved very, very small, but small ones have behaved great. This must also be said if one considers the outcome, because some of the great people simply wanted to forget the existing structural principles that shape the European Union, namely that in the Union itself the relationship of the peoples cannot be changed for their benefit, that is, for the benefit of the great ones. They forget the fundamental equality of all states. That is the very principle that exists, the principle of balance between the population-rich, the so-called large, and the small Member States. Every step of reform, every reform in the European Union, must maintain this balance. And that was simply ignored at the beginning of many big ones. At the end, however, it turned out again – and this is ultimately a good result of Nice – that this balance could be kept both in the co-determination and in other areas. This is also a success of the Austrian Federal Government at this summit, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Much has already been mentioned: the basically good effects that Austria's interests have been imposed on a sustainable basis, and the Austrian possibilities of influence have not, of course, been worsened. The attempt to make an axle formation of France – Germany, a so-called gravity center, a hierarchy that should be set up in Europe, was ultimately brought to nothing, did not come about. This is also a good thing with regard to possible changes in majority and unanimity decisions. It is simply important for us, for the whole of Austria, for this government, that unanimity has been maintained in central areas, such as asylum issues, water management, spatial and soil regulations and also on the most important transport issues. It should also be said to the Austrian people that it was green and red politicians who, for example, voted for the abolition of unanimity on asylum issues, and that it was especially green politicians who voted in favour of the abolition of unanimity in the water economy, which would have brought serious disadvantages for Austria. We do not want to pursue this policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] On Easter enlargement, two sentences: Of course, it is up to the candidate countries themselves – in which I give you the right – how they meet the criteria. But I am also very pleased that the Austrian Chancellor and many others in Europe have already found that there must be long transitional arrangements for the labour market – seven years, that has already been mentioned. We must continue this discussion because there are many, many areas of problem – bordering nuclear power plants, we know the injustice decrees: Avnoj and Beneš; all these points are on the table. Also the internal security, the issue of financialability and ultimately the area of income differences between Austria and the candidate countries. I think it is necessary to minimise the risks in the context of the preparation of enlargement, but also to say quite clearly and again and again, to stress that we are very likely to look at the development of our Eastern European neighbours, but that this enlargement must not go to the expense of Austria and its citizens. And this government will also work for it! We can give this insurance. In the post-Nizza process, it is also clear – I like this as an Austrian parliamentarian – that there should also be a stronger involvement of national parliaments in the EU decision-making process. It is right to return to greater involvement of national parliaments in many areas, including in current areas of agriculture. Demarcation of competence between the European Union and national parliaments is important, is correct and should be deepened. At the end of my remarks, I would like to thank the members of the main committee, the "Fire Defense Committee", who was in contact with the government in Nice on Sunday; unfortunately, the socialist representative was not present. But Parliament has strength, has shown flag, and thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e9959	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-passer.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10006	Mr President. High house! It was in this debate today about the results of the Nice Summit and everything that has to do with it or is supposed to have to do with it, very often talking about European values. I think that's the term that probably used the most inflationary and most misinterpreted last year. European values have been cited as a reason for the sanctions imposed against Austria – which has already been said many times today – and there is a need for information on how these sanctions have been imposed. There are also several publications that have appeared in recent days and weeks, which contain some very interesting aspects. One of these aspects has already been addressed today, namely the participation from Austria or the suggestion from Austria, which has existed in this context. In this respect too, I believe, there is an urgent need for information. I should also like to make a small contribution to historical truth today, because it has been referred to more often and because it is important to explain this, namely the question of government in Austria and the various facets that have existed, and also to the question of any support for a SPÖ minority government by the Freedom Party. I would like to say quite clearly here – I have said this several times; it has also remained unanswered because it is the truth –: Of course, this offer has been made to the FPÖ. It has not only been sent to us by Mr Schlögl, but the first one who has made this offer or approach to us was the mayor of Vienna Michael Häupl, who meant that it was in the interest of the country to support such a minority government of SPÖ, to send three or four persons felt by the liberals as confidants to such a government, and then, after some time, to form a joint government, to form a coalition if, as was said at the time, the SPÖ had until then a bit polished up the international image of FPÖ and no longer opposed to it. [[Intervocations between the liberals and the ÖVP]] This offer by Michael Häupl was repeated a few days later by the then German Chancellor Klima and explained again more clearly and in more detail. At the very end, after the hope was already in a state of swing, the then Minister of the Interior Schlögl again approached us in this regard. That is why I am saying this because I simply do not accept that you, Mr Gusenbauer, are producing yourself there and making a sort of change of history. That's the truth, and that's what you're supposed to say. That's how it's been and no different. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At least as important as the question of how these sanctions came about and who was involved is for me also the question of why these sanctions came about. [[Abg. Jäger: Why?]] - That's why I'll tell you right away. The sanctions were based on the fact that it was said that European values must be defended. European values are for me: Solidarity, the rule of law, equality between Member States, the safeguarding of democratic principles. But all of these European values have been seriously violated by the imposition of sanctions. On the one hand, the principle was violated, which says: The Sovereign is the people. Every nation in each Member State has the right to determine its own government, and there is no over-instance there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm shows a poster with the inscription "Who's next?"]] Thus, the EU-14 have called on a power that is not at all there, namely, that they are, so to speak, a kind of moral over-instance over democratically legitimate governments in the Member States. [[Abg. Silhavy also shows a poster with the inscription: "Who's next?"]] There is, of course, no such thing, nor will there be any such thing in the European Union in the future. And to put it another way, Mrs Colleague: The king in this case was quite naked, split fibres naked in the case of the EU-14. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who has already been quoted several times, has made quite clear the real reason for these sanctions. He said at the time: The Austrians – well noticed: He did not say "the Austrian government", but "the Austrians"! –, Joschka Fischer said, a lesson has to be given! [[Ah-noise with the liberals.]] . And that was actually the real reason that it was said that there are some powerful people in the European Union who want to use the right for themselves to influence what is happening in the individual governments of the Member States and who are allowed to rule. But the lesson was given to God, thanks to others. However, I doubt because of today's debate that they have all really learned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you had learned the lesson, Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen, you would not be able to philosophise whether there are different types of violence – good and bad, better, more dangerous and less dangerous, left and right-wing violence; for example, your statements were. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's what you're telling us!]] Violence is always to be condemned, whether it comes from left or right. There are no moral qualifications, but there is a need for everyone to distance themselves from violence. I'm very sorry you didn't. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Jäger, Mag. More recently, worms and helicopters show posters with the inscription: "Who's next?"]] I would like to say to you who is next, Mrs Colleague: The next one on the list of speakers is Mr Eine! – This is a free service of the government, as no speakers were obviously distributed in the Socialist Group. So: Next is Caspar One. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! I understand, of course, the pain that moves you to stop being in power after 30 years of government. This pain is particularly bitter when one has meant that the country belongs to the party. And that's how you've understood it in the last 30 years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have believed that this country belongs to you and thus to all the positions to be occupied in that country. However, this is not the case. It's not a party, it's not about whether someone's red, it's about whether someone's willing to reform. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It also doesn't matter whether someone is black, but whether someone is best qualified. It doesn't matter whether someone is blue, but whether someone is responsible. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Nor does it matter whether a person is green, but it depends on whether a person is opposed to party policy. – And only and exclusively according to these criteria will this Federal Government make its personnel decisions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another effect of these sanctions is – I would like to say this – that Austria as a whole and also this Federal Government have understood that it is important to represent Austrian interests towards the partners in the European Union self-confidently. The outcome of Nice, I believe, has shown that this federal government has done the same. Mr Gusenbauer, who left the plenary just as he did shortly after his speech, said in today's speech that Nice's outcome is a negative one because the great throw was not successful. . I would just like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, to inform Mr Gusenbauer that, if he already expresses this criticism, he should also present it at the next meeting of the Social Democratic Heads of Government in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We are not agents of fulfillment!]] The majority of the Heads of Government who have negotiated in Nice are Social Democratic Heads of Government and members of the Socialist International. Its criticism should therefore be addressed in the first place! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What Austria has achieved at this Nice summit is something that is important and forward-looking not only for Austria, but also for the European Union as a whole, namely that there will also be equal Commissioners in the future, that there is an individual responsibility of the Commissioners, and that unanimity on key issues, such as own resources decisions and water, soil and space regulations, remains, including the choice of energy sources and asylum, immigration and refugee policy. This has been a central concern of Austria and is also of great importance for the European Union and the smaller Member States, including for the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For me, however, the so-called post-nizza agenda is particularly important: what is going to be in Nice, what will be on the agenda in the future. The main issues are the strengthening of the rights of national parliaments, not only by making national parliaments an enforcement body of decisions at EU level, but also by involving national parliaments in the legislative process, as well as the clear separation of competences between Member States and the European Union. I think this is at all the central question, namely the clarification of the relationship between the European Union and the national states, but not in the sense of power-political interests, but of the criteria of subsidiarity. All decisions are to be made as close as possible to the citizens. This is one of the central points not only for Austria but also for many other Member States. This is diametrically opposed to that attitude, which, unfortunately, in recent months has also been experienced by friends of Mr. Gusenbauer, with his party friends, who feel like a kind of avant-garde in Europe. This so-called avant-garde of Europe does not exist, but there are equal Member States, whether large or small, and so it will be in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Our vision of Europe is not a vision of cultural and political unification and equality, but a vision of unity in diversity, and this must also be the basis of our future decisions. Integration policy cannot compete according to the motto "How quickly do we do something?" or, "Let's make something as fast as we can!" integration is also a question of quality. And on the pursuit of the progress of integration, one must definitely not stay on the road, namely the people, the citizens of this Europe. I believe that the development of recent years has gone beyond this core question in many areas. We have just had to experience in the last few weeks that rapid integration and too little thought-out integration, such as that of the common agricultural policy, have a serious impact on people in Europe. What we are experiencing today about BSE or the feed scandals is the result of a policy that simply has not been taken into account that people's interest in life must be at the centre, not mass production and the most cheap production, as it was. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Today, in a comment from an Austrian daily on this issue, I have read the term "high-performance cows", and I have to say that this has made me very concerned because it is a trend in Europe that is aimed at looking at all the more according to the criteria of production volume, production as fast as possible and the cheapest price as possible. There are high-performance engines, high-performance turbines and all the possibilities of this kind, but we don't want to breed "high-performance animals"! This cannot be the future of Europe, which leads to disastrous effects, as we have seen, and it will be the special task of Austria to make it clear within the European Union that political wisdom and wisdom can and must also exist in it, if one has recognized a way as an error. And the common agricultural policy is a mistake of the European Union! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This means that integration policy cannot be as quickly as possible, but must be done as well as possible. This also applies to Easter enlargement; good preparation is an essential point. Compliance with the rules of the game of all, including those who want to join the Union, is an essential prerequisite. The commitment to values such as human rights is a central issue in particular with regard to the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ decisions, and of course also the commitment to a good neighborhood. I say this today, especially with regard to temelin, because in this respect it is discussed that the Czech Republic must ensure compliance with the Milk Agreement. This is a very important question of loyalty to the contract. In a European Community, loyalty to the contract must be the basis for joint action, and this must also be required by all partners. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that it is crucial for Austria that we acknowledge that we play an active role in this European Union, that we do not want to be a small wheel, but to make a decisive contribution to the European Union's journey route, and that, if necessary, we also take part in the steering wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10229	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Ein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10295	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, you have just explained in detail, among other things, how important it would be for you not to pay particular attention to speed, but to ensure that you achieve the quality and that, with all those concerned, they may be large or small, you have said, you also have the appropriate communication. – I would like to see the principles that you apply in the field of internal policy, not just as a moral sermon. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol, in his speech, said that there had been negotiations by SPÖs aimed at establishing a government together with the liberals. – Deputies! You know that is not the case, you should therefore not claim it either. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Abg. Großruck: But there were conversations, didn't it?]] There has never been any SPÖ negotiations aimed at forming a government together with the liberals, and there will be no such negotiations with these liberals, and you can rely on them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Are you still part of SPÖ or not?]] It is also true, however, that to my great astonishment, the Federal Chancellor also said in his statements on what he likes to call sanctions things that he cannot even believe in himself. – Mr Bundeskanzler! I don't think that's really decent: You know that you have presented things that are not, and I think you should not think the Austrians are stupid. You're not stupid! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They know exactly where their interests lie. It has therefore also surprised me, Federal Chancellor, that you have not lost a single word on the Charter of Fundamental Rights: that in Nice, among other things, the creation of fundamental rights for people in Europe, for citizens, has also been discussed. But the rights of people in Europe were not even worth your word. I think that's remarkable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, know exactly where their interests lie. For years Austrians have been very interested in the fact that it is socially fair in this country that fairness exists between employers and employees and that social security is true. That was with a reason why for 30 years the Social Democrats have put the Federal Chancellor, and that is why the Social Democrats are still the strongest party. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What Austrians are missing from Europe is that this social dimension, which strengthens the dimension of social security in Europe against the effects of globalisation, and stresses that employment in Europe is an essential policy area. What you have not told us about today is the question of how people's everyday interests in Austria and in Europe should be pursued. You have told us about some formal questions, you have told us that the Austrian Federal Government has found that a Commissioner of its own is important, but there has been no mention of people's everyday issues, and that is why the EU is so relatively bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Following the communication strategy of the Freemans, the government has built up a ghost on the question of the protection of Austrian water in order to be able to fight it "manly". – There has never been a threat to Austrian drinking water, which it would have been necessary to save! What there is is every day is an listing of state companies or private companies that are bragging about where they want to sell their water. And what is going on is the intention of this Federal Government to sell the Federal Forests and essential parts of it, along with the water reserves! – This endangers the interests of the people of the Austrian drinking water! Ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time does not allow you to address the aspects of the common European security and defence policy, but also in this regard, Federal Chancellor, you should tell people in Austria at times where you want to go. Do you want to go the way, which Solana last described in Vienna, and which leads to the creation of a European great military power, which, if necessary, is also pursuing its interests by force anywhere in the world, just as the United States does? Do you want to go the way, for example, that Austrian soldiers march into Somalia and die? Or do you want to go the way we have gone so far: the path that is oriented towards self-defense, which is to defend ourselves when we are attacked, even with military means, but which does not lead us to start dreaming of great-power dreams? – I would like to hear your answer, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Nice has not brought any great success, not for Austria and especially for Europe. The only real success is that it has succeeded in creating the formal conditions for the accession of new members. I can only ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, that you now create conditions for this accession to be successful for the people of this country, and we are willing to go with you if you take these interests seriously and not just talk about you wanting transitional periods. In this period, something has to happen, and we would like to hear the signals from you at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10429	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10459	Mr President. I shall begin with the case to be corrected. It has been claimed that I know that it is the untruth that social democracy has negotiated with the liberals for a government participation. The corrected facts are as follows: I know that social democracy has negotiated with the liberals for a government participation – and for the support of a minority government, led by Viktor Klima, who left his dog in the Burgenland alone.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10498	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10519	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr. One, I can well understand that it is a painful process for you to hear today and to receive confirmation from a wide variety of mouths, which your party leadership would not have done everything to ensure the price of power to remain in the government. It would have received all constellations, only to be able to continue ruling in Austria. And it is indeed painful if one has to take note of this today as a social democracy, which is obviously not of this opinion. But this process of reprocessing does not save you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Nice's outcome has brought forward what this Union will bring, namely that it has been found to be capable of enlargement. This is also very important for us Austrians, because this enlargement process, which will take place in the coming years, has required this formal decision of the European Union, so that it is now and in the near future possible and necessary for the candidate countries to meet their requirements. But that it is this decision "The Union is Expandable", which brings forward the development for the next few years, and that is a good thing. Second point. As for the detailed arrangements, I think that we can not only be satisfied as an Austrian. The debate in the European Union was a discussion of a great deal against small people. And we, as a small country, have contributed to the fact that the European Union's small and medium-sized countries now and in the enlarged Union retain their importance. It was therefore important to have a Commissioner and to be represented in every institution: Because it is not only for us, but because it is necessary for every Member State to obtain information, to help shape it in the sense that one can make proposals. And we do not believe that this can be avoided from a candidate for accession – our neighbouring countries, for example. That is why it was right for every country to remain represented in every institution, and it is also a success for our negotiators that this has gone through. The theme was the weighting of votes. If we will have ten votes instead of four in the future, and the big ones will have instead of ten votes in the future 29, this shows that the rule that smaller countries have a relatively stronger weight than larger, nothing has changed. This too is good for the small and medium-sized countries. There has been a relatively stronger weight in the European Union for the smaller ones since the beginning, and this should remain the case. This too was a success that was not easy to achieve. The question on which there should continue to be unanimity and what there will be majority voting was probably the biggest obstacle for Austria. What is being said today, for example, it would have been quite clear that water resources are still by no means unanimous! Ladies and gentlemen! They themselves have seen in the discussions in the main committee what proposals – for example, from the French Presidency – are on the table to introduce the majority vote. In my opinion, this is probably the biggest success of Wolfgang Schüssel as Austria's chief negotiator: the question of water resources still needs unanimity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a member of the main committee, I would also like to say that I am proud that what we have worked out there in meetings has been implemented by this Federal Government at the Nice Summit. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the opposition has been included in this is their problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have worked constructively on this, and I am proud that this federal government has fulfilled what we as Parliament have given it. Finally, a few words on security policy, ladies and gentlemen. From my point of view, it is clear that the development that Europe itself wants to build a willing force for crisis management must, of course, be supported by us. Ladies and gentlemen: Whoever believes in this Europe that this European Union should not only become an economic and customs union, but also a peace union, must participate in it in solidarity, and Austria, like all other countries, must also make a credible contribution to dealing with troops if necessary. From my point of view, you simply have to take note of this away from all taboos and away from all historical relics and open up to this process. And it would also be a good process for the opposition to think intensively about it, and we invite you to join us in the security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore think that Nice has been a great success for Austria, but also, as I believe, for the small and medium-sized countries in the future, it has ensured a participation in the entire process of this future European integration. After this year 2000, when we have experienced sanctions, we can say today, as I say, that we have been strengthened, because we are probably stronger in foreign policy than ever before, we have found a self-confidence in foreign policy, and as Austrians we are also ready for this enlarged Union, our next, great goal. I would also like to thank the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Chancellor, who has lived this credible, with serenity and professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10609	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10633	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger has repeatedly stated to me that it must be painful for the SPÖ members to hear from several people who claimed this, that there was indeed negotiations between the SPÖ and the Freeman to form a common government. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's right, too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Don't correct that it wasn't painful!]] This claim, Mr Spindelegger, is wrong. – It is true that it is only one thing that is painful for us, namely that several have said the untruth on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10701	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10723	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned in the last few hours since Mr Bundeskanzler's presentation on the European Summit in Nice, that Nice has helped to ensure the European Union's capacity for enlargement. He even meant that individual countries of accession might be possible before the next European elections. We would very much like that, but I think that this prospect is very euphoric if you look closely at the results of Nice. In addition, in recent weeks there have been statements by very important people in this area, such as Commissioner Verheugen, who has tried to slow down the Swedish Presidency a little because he thought this was a little too fast. The enlargement officer of the Austrian Federal Government, Dr. Busek, also meant how this should actually be done, he did not really see, because if you look at the budget of the European Union, then the prospect that enlargement should take place within the next three years is not really realistic. So there are still massive things to do that do not allow rapid enlargement at present. In addition, a number of points have been decided in Nice, such as the fact that the two-fold majority decision-making process has become a lot more complicated. This, too, does not really make it easier to include the new countries. The Commissioner's solution has also been postponed, but not really solved. One has now agreed on something, but in ten years – or whenever – one has to renegotiate the whole thing. A solution can't really be that; neither can Austria play an important role in. Mr Klubobmann Khol meant – he referred to the time after the sanctions, probably also to Austria’s role in Nice – that our foreign policy now has a new and successful basis. - I don't see that! I'd rather notice that the opposite is the case. In addition to what has been said here, what you presented in Nice, I have not seen any of Austria's own initiatives. In the past of the past, the Foreign Minister has presented great ideas about a strategic partnership, a "Austrian platform". Where'd they stay? – This has apparently been done in the internal debates about the Security and Defence Doctrine over the last few weeks. Yesterday in the "Report" mission, Austrian Commissioner Fischler also said that Austria should finally become an initiative in terms of enlargement. – Ms. Minister! I haven't heard from you in this respect. We now have almost February, and it will probably be time for something to happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What should happen? Where is the qualification offensive for the people at the borders? - I didn't hear about it. It is more likely that a liberal in Lower Austria, Mrs Rosenkranz, will once again call for a popular survey on EU-East enlargement. – Have fun with the internal coalition consultations! But where is the "Austria platform"? Where is this strategic partnership? – The only thing I've heard in the last few weeks was the military strategic considerations about the security and defence doctrine. By the way, this was not properly presented to us, we were sent sometime. First, the Federal Government wanted to anchor the assistance guarantee in the EU. At the latest in Nice, however, it has been found that this will not work, and now you try differently. Now we are trying to do so through the Security and Defence Doctrine, with which Austria gives up any right to an independent foreign policy. Mr Spindelegger said earlier that this is a peace policy. I ask you whether the answer to the threats in the Security Doctrine is no longer the military threats, but things like human rights and democracy violations, environmental problems, international crime, energy and nutrition issues, which is to solve these threats via NATO. About a military alliance, do you want to solve it? – This is probably not the right way! - I guess it's inside. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: It's not inside at all!]] In this doctrine, threat scenarios are presented – these are broadly voted – and as a solution is then pleaded – very shamefully said – for the Euroatlantic Security Association. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: We are already in the NATO "Partnership for Peace"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes, sir!]] What you are doing here is that you want to sell the Austrians that neutrality is absolute, one is limited to the freedom of alliance, which is a very important part of neutrality – but not the only one, well aware! No permanent military stationing and no participation in wars, this also belongs to it. Now, however, we want the freedom of alliance, and you secretly say: We're going to the Euroatlantic Security Association. Do you know what you're doing? – You try to sell this freedom of alliance to the Austrians as a Trojan horse, and you hope that the Austrians do not notice it. If it is finally so far that neutrality will be abolished – because that is your goal! – then the way to NATO is free. Since we see that you are drawing the wrong conclusions – and I would very much demand a peace policy-oriented foreign policy that is subordinate to defence policy and not vice versa; that is exactly what you are doing – for this reason I now propose a motion for a resolution on the need to maintain that you continue to insist on neutrality and that you do not intend to speak with this Trojan horse of alliance freedom to the Austrians that we no longer need neutrality. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10816	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, is also in a material context with regard to the current item on the agenda and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10840	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lunacek, the "Austria platform" you rightly mentioned will certainly take shape in the next few days. I can tell you that in the border country of Burgenland the "Burgenland platform" has already spoken, but your party colleague Krojer preferred not to participate in this joint work. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: At the invitation of the liberals?]] In this way, your group has been reserved to exclude itself from a joint work and not to introduce ideas in the interests of the particularly concerned Burgenland, when it comes to making the accession of the Eastern European countries quite possible for the border countries concerned. This has been reserved for your group alone. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have already received several proofs today that it was particularly the opposition leaders Gusenbauer and Van der Bellen who have tried intensively to talk about this federal government – especially abroad – very negatively in order to make it impossible for this government to be formed – that has not yet been mentioned – by some printing media, especially from weekly journalists who have not just been friendly about this federal government and have just developed a distortion of this federal government and the Republic of Austria. Of course, this miscarriage of foreign media was taken gratefully and sometimes even further developed into a horror scenario. Ladies and gentlemen! But with this – and we should still note this today – the basis for the imposition of sanctions was also provided, the foundations which were then taken up gratefully by some European statesmen, because they were also better able to pursue very personal interests. In the weekend edition of the "Presse" an excellent article was read by Andreas Schwarz, in which he provided an excellent analysis in this regard. For example, he writes that Chirac was not the only opportunist in these days. I quote black: "Aznar was also one of the spearheads against the new government in Austria – and when he was again elected, he was one of the spearheads for the abolition of sanctions." - Quote. It was always the question of whether a European statesman was right before elections, or whether the elections were already over. As a result, the position of Austria also looked like. This list can be continued with Mr d’Alema or with the Belgian Foreign Minister, but above all with the German friends of the Greens and the Social Democrats. There are politicians of that generation at work, who, as Black says, I quote: "the insomnia of insomnia is always sold as a program and can always be found free from all the vernacular darkness, where the wind seems to blow into the back – a right-left scheme, a "reactionary versus Gutmensch" seemed to him" – Schröder, your friend – "a death-proof popularity agent, only population and German media did not thank him: His attitude towards Austria was rejected." - Quote. And the attitude you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy and of the Greens, have been just as rejected by our people. The cast builder’s and Van der Bellen’s nesting protection action, which has already been presented several times today, has not really occurred, at least not as did you imagine it. Only the tireless commitment – and this has to be said today – of the government representative of our two parties is due to the fact that the Austrian position in Europe today is a strengthened one that Austria has for the first time really contributed to European decisions, as it shows the outcome of Nice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] This result of Nice also bears an Austrian manuscript. This has already been made clear once or twice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an Austrian manuscript you didn't work with. They have even shown interest in selling Austrian interests. Mrs Lichtenberger! Since I no longer had the opportunity to do so in the "ZiB 3" discussion, in which you told the truth in ice cold, – the untruth has really come to your lips more and more easily – I am telling you today: [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Such a bad luck!]] You have worked quite massively against maintaining unanimity, for example in the water question, and you have opposed it and have shownly voted against it several times here in this House. The amendments and your voting behaviour are to be read in the Minutes, Mrs Lichtenberger! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: prove this once!]] To say the untruth belongs with you to the program – there is also colleague Van der Bellen not excluded, and the "Anpilzler" is not up there anyway. He is then disproved by the course of time. However, another time, Mr Pilz, we are talking about the many additions that you have made and which have proved to be unstoppable. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: There we were still on our feet!]] But that's your method. However, this method will not lead you to the desired goal, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have moved the shorter in this nest protection action, and you will also pull the shorter in your other "Anpilzl" actions. Believe me!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10966	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Ferrero-Waldner, speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e10987	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. ==References== February I will sign the European Treaty of Nice on behalf of Austria. That is enough reason for me to thank once again the Committee on the Ad hoc Committee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the really good cooperation during the long and very difficult negotiations in Nice. I should also like to add a few general comments. Of course, the Nice European Treaty is a great compromise. That is to say, it is not all that one would have wanted in Europe and whatever we wanted. But for Austria, we have achieved all that we have done. In fact, as an Austrian Member of Parliament, we should definitely be very satisfied with this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Furthermore, this has been said many times today in this debate: The essential thing was actually to make the European Union a candidate for new countries. We have also succeeded in this – and enlargement is now the next big goal. Before addressing this enlargement and the related strategic partnership, Mrs Lunacek, I wanted to put forward two more issues that may not have been discussed in today's debate. One issue is the issue of voting weighting, particularly the vote by qualified majority. I would like to say once again: Austria would have gone much further on the two main issues, namely social policy, but also tax policy, but in most cases it was Great Britain, Denmark and Sweden, as well as other social democratic governments that did not go along with this. Therefore, the criticism must actually be applied to these states and certainly not to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second issue, which has not been addressed today, is the whole question of enhanced cooperation. You know that for a long time the question of a possible core Europe, an avant-garde, of a pioneer group was in conversation. In this respect, it became clear – and this is also a great Austrian merit, together with other middle and smaller countries with which we have formed alliances alike – that there is now a possibility of working together, but only under certain conditions. At least eight Member States must always participate, a qualified majority must approve enhanced cooperation, and enhanced cooperation must always be open to all Member States wishing to do so, taking into account the objectives and acquis of the Union as well as the rights of non-participating Member States. It was argued by the honourable Member that there was too little democratization. Obviously, he does not know those decisions that say that wherever the qualified majority is introduced – and this is the case with 30 provisions – there is, of course, also a co-decision right of the European Parliament. That too is an important point. Now let me talk about enlargement. The essential thing was to bring about this capacity for expansion. That is exactly what I am doing, Mrs Lunacek, is actually putting into practice what I have promised. My house works very intensively on this strategic partnership. The concept will be completed in a few days. Secondly, The "Austria platform" is already being built up, and, as Mr Schweitzer said, the question of border regions is already at work. That is, you have to create a small structure. You have to prepare this. I've never said anything that I don't put into practice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Not even the Lower Austrian Freedommen?- Oh, my God!]] In this regard, you can be quite calm, there we are on the best way. And around the 1st. April, as soon as it allows my time, I will also introduce this platform. Another important point in the debate is the so-called post-nizza process. I would ask that we should talk about the future of the Union right from the start and not call it a post-nizza process. We should think more about the future. It is indeed true that we have also learned from the last debate and from the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which I very much address here, that it was certain that there was such a convention. But, unlike the debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, this debate should, of course, end up in an Intergovernmental Conference, because otherwise the debate would end up. Finally, national governments must agree. The main topics are: the role of national parliaments, the question of whether there will once be a second chamber – that has to be discussed – but also the question – very important! – the sharing of competences, which is an essential concern for us and in which we can bring a lot of our own experience. Of course, it is also important to search through the wild growth of the Treaties, to achieve simplification of the Treaties, because we really have to be much closer to the citizen. To the Charter of Fundamental Rights. You didn't have to stress this again and again, we said this: For us, the Charter of Fundamental Rights was and is essential, and we would have wished – and could have done – that the Charter of Fundamental Rights be transferred to a binding catalogue. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the most essential points I wanted to raise, and I would very much ask that we enter into an open discussion here together. I'm of the opinion: It is actually at stake with the future Union. And I'm asking: What is more interesting – and that is what I would like to say – than a significant, powerful, strong Europe, which can, of course, claim to be against the other powerful forces? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11043	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11064	Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has used his statement and most of the speakers of the government parties' debates to reflect the last year's actions of the EU-14 in the course of the debate, the Federal Chancellor's report on the outcome of Nice. I cannot fail to see that a certain lustful, high-end, nostalgic view of this situation, which is unique to Austria, was to be felt. They have repacked the Sanctions Rehearsing of Spring. This Sanctionary Retoric was at the time and still belongs to the fact that you want to explain the Sanctions fairy tale that the sanctions against the country have been imposed, although you know very well that the sanctions against a federal government have been held, which belongs to a right-wing populist party with radical elements, as described in the "Wise" report. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's right, too!]] They did not say that the main reason for recommending the repeal of the EU-14 measures was as follows: The effect of the sanctions on the inside, by the nature of the presentation of these measures on the inside, increased national feelings were aroused in the country, and one wanted to put an end to this. If we look forward to last spring, then it is clear that whenever you were politically in distress, if you had to report burdens in Parliament, you would always be in the form of the debate on the measures of the EU-14, as you have tried again today. That is why I ask myself the question: Why Try Today you are again drawing this fog curtain in front of the current policy? – It is obvious that you have reasons for this, because this week – in all media and public discussions – is marked by the record of one year of your policy, over a year of turning policy. We have to ask ourselves what happened this year and how your policy would be assessed in a "wise" report today. What as a balance sheet Its policy remains this year, is a merciless noise of power, a policy that makes the poor poor poorer and the rich richer, socio-political backsliding, conscious division of society as an instrument of politics and much staging. A few days ago, we had to observe a merciless noise of power at a spooky event in Oberlaa, where Mrs. Riess-Passer called for the head of Mr. Sallmutter in a martial way. [[Abg. Achatz: (on empty SPÖ banking lines) Your speech does not even interest your own colleagues! Your shakes don't even interest your own colleagues!]] I want the head of Mr. Sallmutter, I want to see a victim, she said. [[Call the SPÖ: Listen!]] [[Abg. Achatz: All empty at the SPÖ!]] I believe that this is all unpleasant to you, but it simply describes the reality, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Achatz: Nobody cares, not even their own colleagues!]] – I will not let you take the floor just because you are not interested. You can leave the hall if you are not interested in what I would regret, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Achatz: I just wanted to make you aware!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Give a rest!]] They are making a policy with which the poor are made poorer. I remember the package on social security. [[Abg. May. Posch holds a board with the inscription "Who's next?" to the height.]] [[Abg. Achatz: Who's next?]] So far, we have understood in this country that "social security" is being thought about how those who especially need state support really get it. Since you rule, we know that "Treffsicherheit" means to meet those who are worst on it. Social policy retreats, conscious division of society – read the comments of the newspapers! For a year, climate change has been discussed in this country in particular. For the first time, we had to experience that representatives of a political party in this country have systematically built up a tickling system and all those in police and justice who were assigned to expose, threaten and intimidate this chiefity. "Intimidation" is at all an important word in connection with your policy. There is widespread action against all those who dare to think differently, with different, often structural violence. Mrs. Vice chancellor! You forgot to mention that in your list: structural violence – this is a piano you like to play on. And intimidation is an essential element. What role does the Federal Chancellor play? I'd like to talk about this too. – Mr Bundeskanzler! They made a promise a year ago to tame the FPÖ. Let us also draw a short interim balance, who has tamed! You, Federal Chancellor, are now present as the moderator of the liberal power noise. If Mrs. Vice-Chancellor in Oberlaa calls after Mr. Sallmutter's head, then in the next few days you'll be glad to see why that must be.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11213	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would just like to make very careful mention of the fact that the current item on the agenda is about the European Summit of Nice and the statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Please address these issues more closely.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11237	I refer to the words of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about the sanctions to which he has devoted wide space, and I reflect why he clearly considers it necessary to reheat this issue today. Federal Chancellor! They are labeled as "the silent chancellor". Of course, the question is: Why Get Do you have this label? Why are you silent? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very smart!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Sometimes silence is better than talking!]] Is it true that you have nothing to say about the incidents that I cannot mention in detail because of the limited speaking time? - I don't assume that. Or is it, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you have less and less to talk about? The question is: Mr. Federal Chancellor, who tamed who?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11289	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11310	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! After this polemic of my previous speaker, I will try to get back to content. In my short debate, I would like to highlight the importance of Nice's decisions for Austria's economic location. [[Abg. May. Posch: For policy...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only the determination of enlargement capacity, the building blocks laid down for the enlargement of the European Union, for the design of the enlargement process, for the calendar of dates, for the continuation of European integration have a major importance for Austria's economic location. Entrepreneurs, the whole economy therefore welcomes the results of Nice. We also welcome them, ladies and gentlemen, because we have always considered the opportunities to be greater than the risks – nothing in life is without risk, but the risk dimension is much greater. We must look at the economic development and the importance of Austria's economic location since the disappearance of the Iron curtains: These last ten years were, above all, a single success story for our economy. Let me mention just a few figures to support this. In the last ten years, Austria's exports to Eastern Europe have more than tripled from 38 billion Schilling to 123 billion Schilling. And the share of Eastern Europe exports in total exports rose from 10 percent to 16 percent. Do you know what that means? – That means that exports to Eastern Europe alone secured about 50 000 jobs in Austria ten years ago, but now our exports to Eastern Europe guarantee 120 000 jobs! Ladies and gentlemen! If we had the lowest trade deficit in this country in the previous year, in 2000, since 1945, this was also a success in expanding our businesses to the Eastern European countries. And if we are in the situation today – just to mention a single example – that the export market in Slovenia is as important as Japan and China together – Japan and China together are 15 billion Schilling exports, only Slovenia is also 15 billion exports! – or if today Hungary is Austria’s fourth most important trading country after Germany, Italy and Switzerland, this shows the incredible opportunities we have strategic when we expand the European Union towards the east. As a representative of a border region, let me say something very clearly. Believe me, I know the concerns and fears of our citizens in the border regions, but I am very grateful that there are now also concrete figures on the table. A few days ago, the Institute for Spatial Planning presented a series of figures for the last ten years, resulting in the following: In Austria, 25 political districts are bordering the candidate countries of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia. Of these 25 political districts, including districts from my constituency, 22 districts had a greater employment dynamic than the Austrian average. This also shows the immense dimension of this opportunity. If 25 districts are bordering four candidate countries, 22 of which have had a higher employment increase in these ten years than the Austrian average, this also shows the employment opportunities arising from an east enlargement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the future is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, only three points are mentioned. Firstly, I believe that the decision to make a differentiated procedure for the candidate countries, depending on the progress they have in their development, is very positive. Second positive – the Federal Chancellor mentioned it today –: We need flexible transitional arrangements for the labour market, free movement of persons and also services. No question, we need that, and seven years are probably a very reasonable period. Third point: I am very happy about this, Mr Federal Chancellor, and would also like to thank, on behalf of my border region, Waldviertel for this initiative, which was launched by the Federal Chancellor – he has already mentioned it today – with President Prodi in order to establish a corresponding programme to maintain and safeguard the competitiveness of the border regions. Even though the opportunities are far-reaching, we must say: For a transitional period, we must strengthen these border regions. Only then, when these candidate countries have become members of the European Union will it be fairness in competition, because then it will no longer be possible to come to the cost of labour, which is partly one sixth of the Austrians, to environmental costs, which constitute a fraction of those we have in Austria, i.e. with such cheap imports to Austria. Only then is fair competition possible! I am grateful for the negotiation of the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister and the Vice-Chancellor, and I am pleased that this government has made its contribution to this historic European agreement in Nice.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11357	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11378	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke about the direction-setting idea in Nice, about the great decisions that have been made there. Now, at least in the speaking time I have, I would like to deal with what has happened to the people of these direction-setting decisions. I took advantage of the opportunity and discussed a lot with people – with younger people, with older ones – just to see: What was the message with them? What did they get from Nice? Do you know what they came from Nice? – And unfortunately Austria does not differ from many other European countries and countries in this respect! – People say: Brussels is Babylon, the whole is complicated, the European Parliament is not worth anything, and every representative of a national state comes back and does not see its main achievement in what is happening in Europe in the future, in which future cooperation has taken place, but the main achievement is clear and clear that self-interest has been safeguarded – which is also important, I do not want to dispute. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But to communicate only that, that is, that it has succeeded to carry out this, that and that interest and to attack the other national states in order to act equally, does not leave anything left of a new European spirit by European policy. The euro will not be sufficient to create European identity, in order to create a European spirit of departure that is necessary for this process of enlargement. [[Abg. Großruck: But he's helping with it!]] As long as we make fundamental mistakes, such as putting the European Parliament in the corner, push ever further into the corner, and give the non-directly elected Council of Ministers all the power, we will not bring this image of "Brussels is like Babylon", "Brussels is impenetrable" and "Brussels makes all that is against us" out of the minds of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! We're not going to get on with this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was particularly proud to note that, for example, one could maintain unanimity on transport issues. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you have all heard and read – the people have it – the news that has come through the rampage before and after in this area, the news that you have kept the unanimity, but that the European Commission does not, of course, care about the transit agreement and the ceiling of the eco-points in it, not at all, which will suffocate West Austria, but increasingly East Austria under a traffic link! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No one has mentioned that the whole unanimity does not benefit us at all if, in the so-called COREPER, the Austrian representation is in favour of taking decisions against the Austrian vote! But what has been particularly evident in the population is the subordination of European foreign policy under military policy. And the fears – I am telling you in all clarity – that Austria is hiding under the ceiling of NATO, are very strong in the population. In my opinion, they underestimate what it would be like if the Minister of Defence of the Government felt that it was unhappiness to have at last an argument to be able to buy interception hunters. Otherwise, it would have been really difficult to argue about burdening people with such budget expenditure in savings periods. That was clearly visible! And many people have referred to me that this government obviously is looking for only one argument for militarization and that it is very much in favour of certain European processes, which have been very praised, in militarization. It's used! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I should like to say a word about Mr Schweitzer, who has now clearly had to remove himself. [[Abg. Boy: Yes, he has to go to Sweden!]] – I don't know, does he have to drink wine up there? I don't know what he's doing. [[Abg. Young: No, there you drink something else! He's working there! On behalf of Parliament!]] He can't let it put things that are so obviously false that it would have to hurt him if he still had this feeling for it. [[Abg. Boy: No, you can't leave it!]] If he could only remember more precisely, I would be pleased because, especially in water policy, it is about the greatest caution and accuracy at European level, but also at home. If the ceiling is pulled down, you can see what comes out: To the outside, it is a great thing to say that we have protected our water from European robbers. But that we want to sell it on bang and case, or that Molterer wants it and that the Greens will work against it, you can rely on it! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Romansquelle sells already, Gasteiner sells already!]] This shows the true spirit behind water policy: Privatising devils comes out in order to weaken the standards that still guarantee high quality in Austria in this area today, and thus put at risk the consumers who need water, its quality and access, including cost-effective access to it in the long term! The main thing is, we can sell ourselves. That seems to be the key to this government's action. But it does not benefit ecology, it does not benefit consumers, nor does it benefit Austrians if water is exposed to privatised competition. We've already experienced in England how it works out. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! If you were to strip off your hypocrisy here, you would have my respect!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11530	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11552	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! Mr Gusenbauer has previously passed an destructive judgment on Nice and asked: Has Nice made a positive contribution to the EU? – His answer was: No, no, no, He asked: Has Nice brought more quality to the EU? – His answer was: No, no, no, On some points he was quite right to do so, they are true. But for whom? They are true for those who wanted to strengthen the Commission, for those who wanted more rights for the European Parliament and for those who wanted to restrict national rights and, above all, veto opportunities. These members were disappointed. It wasn't us! For example, Germany, which hoped to get out of it first with fewer contributions, was disappointed and, secondly, to maintain a stronger position within the framework of Parliament as a result of its increased population size. France, the alleged axle partner, has taken a line through his account. Germany was disappointed. However, France was disappointed as the organizer who wanted to abuse this conference as a brilliant start for the presidential election campaign. She just passed the fiasco. We were not disappointed by the results of the conference. Not disappointed were other countries, such as the United Kingdom, which enforced its interests, or Belgium, in terms of the location of the conference, or Spain, for example, in terms of contributions. These states have brutally enforced their own interests, and there was no mention of European ideals at all. Nevertheless, or precisely because of this, these states left the negotiating table satisfied. Selfishism made itself paid as almost always in the so-called community. And what about Austria? – We liberals see foreign policy as a real policy. At the Nice Conference, we were particularly concerned with the implementation of the following points: We were concerned not to assign vital rights to the Brussels bureaucracy, especially in the transit area, from which already too much has gone to Brussels. We did not want a board of the Great, in which two or three states alone can determine the direction. We wanted and do not want to intervene, Mrs Lichtenberger, in the power of disposal over the water. I still remember very well the EU election campaign when we liberals – and this has happened to me several times in discussions – were mocked and ridiculed because we warned of the danger of selling out water rights, of our main raw material. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But sell yourself!]] We have been, and this is also clearly said, smiled at by those who today want to attach the defense of the water castle Austria to their own flag. That too must be said clearly once again! [[As a result of this, it is not possible to find a solution to this problem. Murauer.]] We were also opposed to a substantial restriction of veto law, the last bastion of small states. This meant that we wanted to keep foreign, asylum and refugee policy in Austrian hands, and ultimately it was also about preventing an abuse of Article 7 with which we had so bad experiences at the beginning of the year. And we were not disappointed, we have enforced ourselves in these points – not from the point of departure, not from arbitrary or party interest, but for Austria and for its people. An important lesson we have to learn from this process is that Parliament must change its way of working. On the one hand, and in this respect the Foreign Ministry is also required, but we also need to consider better ways of getting the information from Brussels about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into this House more quickly, on the other hand, we also have a debt of hold, and in this respect it would be the medium of the Internet, which offers us Members much more opportunities than we really use at the moment. In order to achieve a level playing field with the Brussels institutions, we must at least consider how we want to do so and how we can do it. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to give a good witness to this government's foreign policy, which has been working for almost a year. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: No!]] We have been successful, essentially thanks to your work, Mrs Minister, and the foreign country has now understood – Mr Kostelka, by the way, your club seems to be making a club meeting without the clubman, you should be careful! – that this government, Mr Kostelka, was elected by the Austrian voters, can only be re-elected by them – not by pressure, not by dubious help from abroad! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka:... this is your practice!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is also clearly noted on the current occasion in the direction of Russia, whose important role in Europe we recognise, but which can and should not be accepted in Austrian politics – and should not be accepted by any party in this House, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrian does not need advice from abroad. Our citizens expect this from us and expect us to be common and closed on these issues. Family disputes are conducted internally and not with foreign help! This conference was successful for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11638	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11659	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If one has listened to the speeches of the colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ, one has to find out: Nice and the European Union have not really been interested in it. It was important to celebrate the first anniversary of government education and the interpreters in connection with the sanctions. But there were also other things included in these speeches. As was the case with your speakers last year, Austria was a country that lived in poverty and dictatorship until February 2000. – The exact opposite is true! And the Austrians know that. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Very right!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: No applause!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Against this background, it was really exciting, Mr. Federal Chancellor, to listen to you. Your comments, which we have heard now, more than a month after the decisions in Nice, are contrary to all the discussions that have taken place in the meantime, and also to the reactions that have taken place immediately thereafter from the ranks of your coalition partner. At that time, Haider – I can remind you – was still talking about the "limitless competence of stupidity" in this Council. He also meant that you were hanging on the short line of the vice chancellor. Mr. Federal Chancellor, what is true now? Was it a victory for Austria and for bowls? Or has the limitless competence of the stupidity of the European Union been kept limited only because you are hanging on the short line of your vice chancellor? But let me take these results seriously. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, know that the main committee has taken a decision with the votes of ÖVP and FPÖ, just a few days before you flew to Nice, which clearly lists the Austrian negotiating positions. One of the most important positions was that the Commissioner should continue to maintain the small countries, including Austria. – Conclusion: He's gone! Although not now, it is the date of the accession of the 27th century. The EU country, from which Austria and a number of other Member States of the European Union no longer have a Commissioner, has already been established. The same has happened in connection with the weighting of votes. Ladies and gentlemen, you are celebrating that Austria will have four mandates at the next EU election and that in the Councils, the vote will be reduced from 4.59 percent to 4.2 percent and only more than 2.9 percent for the EU-27. Austria is no longer involved in the blocking minority with 15.38 percent, but with 14.5 percent. Austria has become weaker in the European Union. The small countries have become weaker. And you will have to explain to the majority of the middle and small states that will join the European Union why they too will enter the European Union with a weaker position. The worst thing was left to us, ladies and gentlemen, because ÖVP and FPÖ even agreed to a resolution in the European Parliament, after which Austria would have only ten mandates in the European Parliament at all. And that would have been the "Super-GAU" at all. The decision-making capacity within the European Union has not really increased, it has become even more complicated by new majority. In this context, there has also been virtually no further development of decision-making capacity by reducing the number of unanimity decisions, and the EU Parliament has not been strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, enlargement capacity was only formally realized, "formally" because of the fixing of the votes with which these candidate countries will enter the European Union. But functionally, the result is exactly the opposite: Decisions have now become more difficult and will be even more difficult after Eastern European accessions. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has also adapted the security policy. Let me address some of the current discussions in this context. Austrian security policy continues to be based on the Neutrality Act, whether you want it or not. Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, Mrs Bundesminister, you are committed to this Constitution, and as long as it applies – and it will ensure social democracy – you will also have to stand on this ground! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The content of the Neutrality Act is that Austria does not participate in wars, that there are no foreign troops on Austrian territory, and that thirdly, accession to a military pact is not permitted. – Your discussion of an alliance freedom in this context is an intelligent but transparent find. And what does it mean, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler? – It means that you choose one of these three terms arbitrarily and say: Accession to a military alliance is not sought. But what you say with it – argumentum e contrario – is also: We want to wage war! We want troops on Austrian territory! Ladies and gentlemen, I can prove that to you. The Force Residence Act, which you have under review, is a legal basis for foreign troops – systematically – on Austrian territory. And according to international law, the intention to engage in war conflicts, in measures to impose sanctions without UN mandates is, moreover, to lead wars. This is the case in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! We say no to a NATO accession, because we are convinced that NATO is not Europe's future security concept. What we need is a European security consensus, and this includes more than the approval of 17, 18, 19, or no matter how many states. We repeat at the beginning of the 21st century. It was not the faults of polarization that had to be made in Europe after 1945. We are more freer today and should also look forward to the future as an Austrian.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11731	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11756	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schweitzer of the Liberals has previously claimed that the Green Countryman Grete Krojer in Burgenland would not have accepted an invitation or an invitation to participate in the "Austria Platform" or an "Austrian Platform" session in Burgenland. It is true that Mrs Landtagsreitte Krojer has received an invitation from Mr Schweitzer from the liberals to a "Burgenland platform" – not one of the Federal Government or the Foreign Minister. And that a Member of the Greens does not comply with an invitation from a liberal MP whose party is known to plead for a referendum against enlargement, to hate foreigners, and also to want to bring people, on the other hand and beyond the border, into dialogue, but against each other – that a Green Member does not go there is only logical! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You hate! We're not doing this, you're horrifying us!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11794	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e11816	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ is very hard today. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Not just today!]] The Nice Summit – should it be a failure or a success? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What about the Spittel scandal, Mr. Colleague?]] On the one hand, the majority of EU countries are still run by social-democratic Heads of Government, but on the other hand you want to represent the Nice Summit as a European failure. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But not for long!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why don't you talk about BSE? That's much more sensible!]] If Member Kostelka here claims that we already knew that we would no longer have a Commissioner in enlargement, then he really knows very badly, because in reality it is the case that the larger countries will lose the second Commissioner they still have, and only when we have more than 27 countries in the European Union – and that will take a very long time – will have to find a new regime. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: From 27th!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Why don't you talk about BSE? That would be more reasonable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Then he's gone!]] But that does not mean that we can no longer ask a Commissioner at all. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You will probably not be taken seriously by your own group, because when you went to the floor, all six SPÖ representatives were in the room, and only during your speech were up to about a quarter of your Members present. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's not that full with you either!]] – If our clubman speaks, our ranks are always closed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you explain that Austria wants to wage wars, this is really on its hair! Have you forgotten that climate was the one that made the decision in Berlin that troops are being deployed in Kosovo? So here was this German Chancellor climate – or has he already been excluded from SPÖ in the meantime? I haven't heard anything about that yet. But now on the real topic: The Nice Summit was a prerequisite for the European Common House to be further built and developed. It was essential that there should first be a decision on how the bodies are to be composed and also on the weighting of the votes of the candidate countries. In this respect, a compromise could be reached. If the executive Klubobmann Kostelka has pointed out here that in the main committee we or the two government parties have demanded this and that, then I can only say: What the two government parties called for in the main committee, our Federal Chancellor, during the negotiations in Nice, has also been able to fully enforce. Here the interests of Austria have been safeguarded! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I was already somewhat disappointed at the fact that SPÖ-Obmann Gusenbauer goes down to such a low level to say that if the Federal Forest sells 15 000 hectares of its 860 000 hectares that are at risk of water resources in Austria. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is his level! He's got no other one!]] – This is half a percent of our forestlands as a whole! He also claimed that the opening of the forest was in danger: Currently, 82 percent of all forest areas in Austria are in private hands, and the opening of the forest is not in danger, and if half a percent more in private hands, it is no more in danger! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Obviously, the party president Gusenbauer is not informed by his members, because last week Minister Molterer in the Agriculture Committee reported that 0.2 percent of the forest area is, so to speak, blocked by the Forestry Act and another 0.8 percent is based on the hunting laws, which are areas for feeding, wild-gattering and similar areas. So this is about 1 percent of 850 000 hectares. In view of the fact that the free movement of the forest is at risk, it is really very cool – or Gusenbauer really does not know. One last thing, on my real topic: No other area is as common in the European Union as agriculture. All market regulations, all quotas are fixed there. For these reasons, we also have the greatest interest in protecting not only workers with transitional periods during enlargement negotiations, but also in protecting agriculture with measures. One thing we definitely demand: That the same quality standards and the same hygiene requirements can also be met by these countries before they join. [[Assured by Mr Stadler and Mr Hornek.]] Everything else can only be defined in transitional arrangements. Something else, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen: The current biggest crisis for agriculture in Europe is BSE, but not the EU alone, as Switzerland is not a member of the European Union and, in terms of its size, has the highest share of BSE-positive cattle in England and Portugal. Austria, Finland and Sweden have not yet had a BSE case, thank God. Although there have already been more than 15,000 massacres in which tests have been carried out, all results have so far been negative. One reason for this is that we have already started the eco-social agricultural policy in 1987 and that we have never tried to... – This is a drug scandal, and here I have to say, Member of Parliament: [[Abg. Dispensers: But with the pigs it seems not to be!]] Please don't generalize! We have 82,000 pig farmers in Austria, and if 40 or 50 cases of abuse are found, then the whole industry must not be affected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Everyone is too much!]] We too will not say that all of Vienna is drug-drug because there may be more drug dealers here than elsewhere. Here, too, one cannot generalize, but one must fight every particular case. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] It has therefore been shown, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria has been a pioneer within the EU with its agricultural policy. We are also in favour of introducing a degression in market organisation payments before enlargement. I hope that the German Chancellor Schröder has not only briefly become a Paul from Saul, for when he made his decision on Agenda 2000, he has still stated: The Schrebergarten agriculture in the Alpine countries will have no future, and agriculture will also have to industrialize. We have always opposed industrialisation and will continue to do so, including in an enlarged European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12023	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12050	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I was surprised to see: For our spokespersons, you have advised: "To the point!", on the other hand, you have failed to do so with the speaker of your group. But don't worry: I'll talk about the matter. [[Call the ÖVP: Can you do this?]] The problem at summits, as in Nice, is the same for the governments of all countries: You make yourself strong in advance; there you have to see what you are spending; and if you come home, you have to sell the little one you have achieved for internal political reasons and for your own image care as a great victory. I believe that, for this reason, the consideration that Dr. Gusenbauer has made here today, namely that, beyond the circle of the Heads of Government, one should consider a Convention character and try to involve various forces in a country and also to find a larger democratic basis for decisions and for the preparation of decisions, is a right one. This would be good for the European Union, and this could also be a new foreign and security policy, a new international policy: Not to pursue foreign policy and international policy, just as in the past, just from a government and from an external office, not just in the diplomatic field, but also to strengthen the parliamentary dimension, and also to involve society itself more closely in the NGOs and their institutions. This would be a good thing for the EU, and I believe that it would also be beneficial for individual countries to take the step towards a new form of foreign policy, international policy, especially in the EU. This is also reflected in the individual questions: When it comes to strengthening Parliament, for example at the expense of governments, of course a representative of the government or a head of government in the circle of his colleagues is difficult to really "flee" for Parliament and give up on their own rights. In this circle, in this atmosphere, the one who doesn't approve of Parliament is more than the one who says: I want to limit my competences and I am interested in Parliament getting more rights. – All the more, it would be right to find a new form here. I have also missed a little in the report that the question of strengthening Parliaments is being addressed in detail. I am glad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs then mentioned increased cooperation – an essential result of Nice. I have missed explanations from the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. It would be interesting to hear: What's Austria doing here? Are there any preliminary talks? How do we intend to use the new instrument of enhanced cooperation for our country? What are some considerations about this? Some things have also been said about the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but I remember the main committee meeting: We have warned against the creation of a double track record with the Convention on Human Rights or even the establishment of a standard under which the Convention on Human Rights is based. Even here we haven't heard: What has happened, what can happen, how will one take steps here for the future to avoid a false, bad dual conduct? I also lack more explanations about the strategic partnership. If it is true for our country that we are trying to have an enhanced partnership with the candidate countries of our part of Europe, we must see that the one who has spoken and works for this enlargement in the Union is Germany and not Austria in particular, and that the accession of these countries, particularly Poland, in the respective country and in the EU, is more linked to the Federal Republic of Germany than to our country. I also wonder if it is possible to clarify the question of the Beneš decrees and the AVNOJ provisions – although I believe that there should be clear statements from these countries so that there is a question of the past – from our point of view, to link with the accession of these countries to the EU. That this will help us if we want to build a stronger partnership with these countries, I doubt! I have also missed the answers to the questions – or only references in this context – as in Nice, that enlargement of the EU to Europe as a whole will continue to take generations, how to imagine this transitional period, whether it will be enough to wait for the third or fourth group candidates, or whether one should not find ways and means to strengthen their involvement – including democratic involvement – in Europe. For example, measures and steps could be taken in this direction by expanding the Council of Europe – and not by erodement. The OSCE could also play a role in this. Above all, we should consider making the Council of Europe the organ also for this question and filling it with life again. Consideration should also be given to relations between the EU and the UN. The EU will only be able to be strong if there is appropriate cooperation at global level. Consideration should also be given to strengthening the United Nations, not only in Austrian but also in European interest. I believe that this debate – and I have listened very closely to all the statements made by the government – has suffered a bit from the fact that you have made it more than one anniversary celebration and that the real issues that have arisen in Nice have only been on the verge or not at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12092	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12114	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I make a clear commitment to the European Union. I believe that the European Union is an opportunity for youth, and I believe that the European Union is an opportunity for the future. It is therefore also good if development continues when institutional reform is discussed. It is about bringing more democracy into the European Union, it is about developing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights, but then – and here, Mr Schieder, I am giving you the right to be equipped with legal power and legal commitment. But it is also true – I am sure – that this development must be considered and prepared. It is not possible to ignore politics here in an excessive euphoria, reason and far-sighted view, but it is a matter of moving forward these reforms with a purposeful, reasonable approach. The best example here is the upcoming Easter enlargement: Here we have to be careful. It is necessary that we also safeguard Austrian interests that we also maintain the interests of Austrian workers in particular. It is therefore also necessary and will be necessary to establish and establish transitional periods on the labour market. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we also demand a partnership between our potential future partners in the European Union. When I hear that in the question of Temelin the Czech government the atomic lobbyists may have prevailed when I consider the superiority with which arrogance the Czech government with the concerns – the legitimate concern! – the Austrian population and, in particular, the Mühlviertler population, this is the behaviour of a Czech government that wants to be partners in a common Europe, which is not eligible and is not a partner. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The same is true of Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions. Here again, clarifications are necessary, too, it is necessary for the Czech and Slovenian Governments, that these states clearly distance themselves from these standards of injustice, that they not only distance themselves from them, but also remove these standards of injustice. It is therefore also necessary for this Federal Government to insist that possible accession is linked to the repeal of these provisions. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, the European Union has also lost credibility. The unfair and unfoundable sanctions have weakened confidence in Europe. The sanctions were illegal in the EU, they were undoubtedly a violation of the European spirit, and they were undoubtedly an inadmissible intervention into the national sovereignty of a Member State. This can and must not be tolerated in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was simply the attempt of the Socialist International to establish here an example: that cannot be what must not be that a middle-right government cannot replace a socialist government. This attempt has failed to thank God, and I hope that it has also been an example for many other countries so that the European Union can be truly democratised. On the contrary, it was quite the contrary that – and this has been demonstrated in the meantime – your European comrades immediately committed sanctions on call from Austria, from climate, from Rudas and from others of your colleagues, without giving legal hearing to the defendant. These unworthy sanctions were imposed in agreement with the Socialist International. Then Mr. Gusenbauer – which has been mentioned several times today – journeyed champagne through Europe, the Greens have mobilized their left-left allies and friends from abroad, and it was a Mr. Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer – and this is just too grotesque – who is now being pictured as police officers in Europe’s newspapers and who has a more than inconspicuous relationship with left-wing terrorists, it was this Joschka Fischer who was fully involved in these sanctions, who so broke the staff over Austria. But you, ladies and gentlemen, did not help to defend Austria at the time. You have betrayed Austria in this difficult situation to serve your own political interests. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore good that the current Federal Government is negotiating for the Austrians, as this Federal Government will ensure that reforms and further development of the European Union are carried forward in a moderate, proper and well-prepared manner. However, this Federal Government will also ensure that the European Union becomes democratically mature so that such political amoks, as they have happened in the matter of sanctions, can no longer come about in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12205	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12226	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Of course, the Nice Summit was successful, of course our representation by the Austrian Federal Government was successful! If I think only of the security aspects, I congratulate the fact that the security policy has been mentioned by name here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Austria has become aware of EU enlargement. Of course, we also have a strategic interest here, ladies and gentlemen, but enlargement takes account of the European Union's founding idea by setting peace and freedom as a basis for stability and security, including for the new states, and by seeing human rights, social security, environmental responsibility and prosperity as the basis for stability and security. Whoever closes this, does not act Europeanally, does not act in the sense of Nice, does not act in the sense of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Austria has also been successful, because the smaller Member States, in particular, have expressed their interest in this summit, and because important steps have also been taken towards a common European security and defence policy. We have had a changed situation in Europe since 1990, and Europe's and Austria's security policies have taken this into account. I would remind you that in the SPÖ/ÖVP coalition under Chancellor's climate the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Petersburg tasks have been signed – right, Mr Schieder, you are right: [[Abg. Arbitrator: Peters Berger, not -burger!]] Peters Berger; we agree, as often as possible, here too – and it has been established in this context and it is reason that one wants to play a peace-keeping and peace-making role, yes – in our interest – to participate! Nice has taken further steps or reliefs along this path and has defined a binding commitment also for national contributions with targeted military resources. I can already mention that Austria has agreed to participate in international operations in the context of European crisis management, to provide forces to help secure peace in a Europe of enlargement. The Swedish Presidency has the task of developing mechanisms to further deepen the cooperation sought between the European Union and NATO. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Government has also taken account of the discussion document, with the presentation of the security and defence doctrine of this new situation, and has taken a next step here in the course of this fundamental change in European security policy. What is it about in Europe's security policy? – The security situation has essentially three zones: the stablely integrated states in Europe and NATO countries, then those States that have an EU and NATO perspective, and finally those countries that have not yet joined the stability core. However, we will continue to be intensively committed to the organisations that offer us security, such as UN, OSCE, European Union and NATO. The vital interests of Austria are the guarantee of territorial integrity, the protection of the rule of law, the democratic constitution and the internal security, the safeguarding of economic interests and our fundamental values and the exercise of Austrian interests in the European Union. I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that a key point above all is a headline: Security is certainly not everything, but without it, everything is nothing!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12285	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12306	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Nice Intergovernmental Conference will be assessed differently – and this is now in the nature of the matter – always depends on its own position, on its own position of interest, but also on the outcome of the negotiations that could be achieved in Nice. For example, the French President – as we all know, a "special friend" of Austria – celebrated this summit as the great success of the French Presidency; other politicians who were not in the internal political clutter like Chirac were already somewhat more cautious, and the media have also published cautiously critical reports. From an Austrian point of view – and this should deal with us here in the National Council above all – we can be quite satisfied with the results of the negotiations of our government representatives, because they represented the interests of our country and its population very successfully in Nice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This concerns, ladies and gentlemen, the careful extension of majority decisions in those areas where this was useful, but at the same time the principle of unanimity was preserved in sensitive areas such as immigration policy, asylum and refugee policy. It has also succeeded in effectively protecting the vital Austrian interests on the important issue of water management, spatial planning and land use. If, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of the left-wing opposition – the Social Democrats and also the Greens – had not been achieved, then this outcome of the negotiations would not have been achieved, for they were in favour of the principle of unanimity that they had delivered our water to European majority voting, and they would have gone far beyond the borders in asylum policy as in the years before. – So it was the government parties who, by insisting on the veto possibility, turned away damage from our country. As a special success in Austria, the revision of Article 7, which Mrs Vice-Chanceller has already mentioned, is certainly to be assessed in the EU Treaty. A change of this provision could be achieved against the resistance of France. We remember: With reference to Article 7 last February, sanctions against Austria had been imposed by 14 EU Member States, without us having been able to comment on the absurd accusations. This is now no longer possible, according to Nice, because the hearing law has been enshrined. Moreover, such a procedure is in place in the future, as we know, the control of the European Court of Justice. However, an important goal has also been achieved in the reform of the EU Commission. The individual responsibility of the Commissioners was finally enforced. This means that, like Santer at the time, the whole Commission must not withdraw if individual Commissioners are to be blamed. The President of the Commission is now able to release unable or corrupt Commissioners individually. The occasion for the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice was the necessary institutional reform that the European Union should be able to include more countries as members from a certain date. The way to go, ladies and gentlemen, is undoubtedly still far, because it is now up to the candidate countries themselves to implement quickly those reforms they need in order to meet the accession criteria. It will depend on these states, and I hope that they will depend on them alone when they can comply with Community law. The eligibility – and no one should be deceived about this – will not exist until the conditions for it are objectively met and there is a certainty that Community law is actually being applied. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] An overhaste – and I am thus at the end – poorly prepared East and South East enlargement does not benefit either the European Union or the candidate countries. However, I am convinced that the Austrian Federal Government will be as successful in the so-called post-Nizza process as before the government summit. It is important to continue to represent the interests of the Austrian population as strongly as before.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12370	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Lunacek and comrades on neutrality, security doctrine and common foreign and security policy of the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – I note that this is the minority and thus rejected. 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (400 of the Supplements): Federal Act establishing a Federal Constitutional Act on the establishment of an independent regulatory authority in the fields of audiovisual media and telecommunications, a Federal Act on the establishment of the "Communications Commission Austria" ("KommAustria") as well as the Federal Constitutional Act, the Cable and Satellite Radio Law, the Broadcast Act, the Television Signal Act, the Telecommunications Act, the Access Control Act, the Cartel Act and the Signature Act (468 and 468 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12417	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. I assume that there is no oral reporting, and we are therefore immediately entering the debate. As the first speaker, Mr Cap spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12444	High house! We have the opportunity here today to discuss the media authority a second time in more detail. I would like to say something about the history of the whole and explain why, in my opinion, the two government parties are so quick about this matter, why we have dealt with it very quickly in the Constitutional Committee and why we want to discuss this again very quickly in plenary. I am incomprehensible because in September of last year Klubobmann Khol announced that there will be a presentation of the media laws in a media package at the said panel discussion. He still has – almost as a "crumpus package" – the 5th. ==References== And, of course, with this announcement, he was right: That really belongs to everything together, a summary is really justified. It is all the more incomprehensible to me why this project has been abandoned. We are now trying with all our violence to construct a media authority in which everything is supposed to be integrated. This should not only address infrastructure issues or competition issues, but of course also deal with issues relating to private radio, private television, Internet, and of course the ORF should also be dealt with – and probably sometime also the promotion of publicity and the special promotion of the press. This is then an institution which is not insignificant to the further development of the media landscape in Austria and which is not insignificant also - I say it quite openly - power-political reasons. Of course, one wants to have some gratitude when there is a licensing in the private radio area, and perhaps another gratitude when there is a licensing in the private television area. That's not a question! But the dispute we've always had was the following: The construction of the media authority, as you present it and for which you also need a two-thirds majority and also want to call it independent, is in the final effect politically not an independent media authority. You have to know. This is not because the proposal for the occupation of the Commissions has to be made by the Federal Government, and you have in fact not defined any qualification requirements for the so-called experts. This can be in the final effect then almost anyone, the main thing – and I believe that is political Quintessence – he or she is loyal to the two government parties. And this is due to the ordering mode of all three commissions, of course also the Managing Director, the Vice-President and the President. What we have always called into question was the need that you said there was a President and a Vice-President. And what are three commissions for? Why not find out with two commissions and therefore with only two managing directors? – You have not been able to answer this question until today. The advantage of our model, which we have now presented, is that it is cheaper by 17 million schilling. However, I have not yet expected that in our model, the management of the Telekom Control, which you want to dissolve and merge constantly, will not have to walk with highly paid terms. In fact, a few "millions" are added.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12484	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! While it is gratifying that around this time of day the plenary room is so well filled, I have to record a whole series of individual talks that make it really difficult for the speaker to hear. I therefore ask you, if there is an urgent need to discuss things outside the plenary room and give the speaker a fair chance! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12499	Above all, one should give a media authority a fair opportunity, and of course it does not have it, because this proposal now before us is anything but proof of a proposal for an independent media authority, which of course does not give it any chance of giving it the consent. And that's not subjective, that's objective, and if you look at it carefully, you can understand that it's exactly that way. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You don't say what's objective!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Cap sets out what is objective!]] The problem is that, in the telecommunications sector, you give in to the efforts of those to whom Deutsche Telekom's control was in fact far too competitive. Despite high market shares, real difficulties, for example in the mobile phone market, can also be realized. That's where you really want to break down competition. And the problem is that with this large construction you also create many posts, which cost a lot of money. I am surprised that your Minister of Finance, Grasser, has not yet spoken, because the whole thing would cost 17 million Schillings in your model. Explain to me what you need a President, Vice-President and three Managing Directors, and, and, what! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where?]] We're just talking about the media authority. You might have been mentally somewhere else. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, they are all depressed except you!]] The media authority is now on the agenda, and this point is now to be dealt with, because you wanted it to come on the agenda. So that, I think, is the problem with this, and we just have a different idea. The second is that you want to get the ORF under control on several levels, including by allowing the media commission to judge the objectivity. Klubobmann Westenthaler may then be more comfortable with his complaints, because this is then a body that he co-occupies with, unlike the Commission for the Protection of the Broadcasting Act, in which eight of nine judges are laymen and where it is really difficult to enforce party-political initiatives. It may then be possible to discuss the advertising times, the decisions of the Executive Board in this body and, above all, and especially, to judge what is public-law and what is not public-law. That's exactly what you want with this media authority! You cannot demand a democratic opposition to such a proposal. Let's sum up: It eventually becomes more expensive for mobile users because you want to reduce the competition. There will no longer be such an objective reporting for the ORF audience because you want to influence what is objective and not objective. There may also be no longer certain formats of broadcasting, for example "Taxi orange", because such a thing may no longer correspond to your public-law ideas. It is becoming more expensive for taxpayers because this model is more expensive by 17 million schillings than the proposal made by the Social Democrats. And this body is above all not sufficiently democratically legitimate, but it is a government-dependent media authority, because all the occupations of the functions in this media authority can propose to the Federal Government, which, of course, restores the total party-political influence of ÖVP and FPÖ in this media authority. That is why we reject this proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For years you intervened in the ORF, and yet you are in opposition!]] Now you have to go back to the start and rethink whether you really are staying with this model, and I believe that there are forces in you who do not want this model in the form of the constitutional provisions, but who really want the media authority to be integrated and subordinated to the Federal Chancellor's Office. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is what you want! You wanted this!]] That's your real goal, and you're just looking for someone to help you. You will also be wrong, because we will explain to the Austrians exactly what your true goal and your true desire are.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12615	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12636	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to take a brief look at my very valued previous speakers. The longer I listen to you on questions from the media authority and the questions of the "KommAustria", the more I come to the very certain conviction that you have not actually read our law at all, Mr Cap. It has also already shown the debate today – and if the discussion is still so emotional and loud – that it is really only about people and posts. It's not about content at all. To my great regret, I have missed a contentious discussion of the structures of this law. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Then use your speaking time and explain this to us!]] There has been no media policy in Austria for 15 years. I am pleased to say that Mr Schieder has also admitted that SPÖ has made mistakes here. And now I mean, honourable Member: Don't make mistakes again! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Did the ÖVP do anything in this republic in the last decades, or did it sleep in the pendulum watch?]] [[Abg. Murauer: A lot of reasonable things, Mr. Cot!]] On the question of media policy, I would like to quote Gerd Bacher, probably one of the most professional on media policy issues, from the "Press", who writes: "What's lying about these fate-related questions of our media democracy, which is being hypocritical and proclaimed to ignorance, is all the more fatal as it is 'only' about how Austria will be informed or disinformed in the future..." Another quote from Mr. Danninger from the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" "In the possession of the media-political innocence, which is almost immemorial by the SP, the SP is certainly not. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You've read that before! You have already given this speech today!]] After seeing for decades media policy in the occupation of top posts in the ORF, in intervention and in second counting, it now blocks initiatives that are not brought about by jux and tollery, but by top judges. The SP rejects the establishment of a non-cooperational media authority. It does this in the knowledge that the construction presented by the government meets the demands of its own media experts." - Quote. Why actually a "KommAustria"? It's also very easy to explain. I would also like to bring a quote from Kurt Horwitz from the "Vorarlberger Nachrichten": In a time of networked media and the ever-growing technologies of print, online, electronic media and communications providers – keyword: alternative telephone operators and internet providers – the merger of the media authorities that have previously acted separately makes sense. The government is on the right track with this plan. - Quote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And that's her too, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to explain the content very briefly. As you all know, it is planned to set up three Commissions, a Media, an Infrastructure, a Competition Commission, and a strengthened Commission for common issues. In these commissions, the chairman is mainly responsible and two more – at the Media Commission five – are working on a secondary job. To the allegation made by the opposition that we would send only dependent non-independent experts to these commissions, it must be said that the Media Commission – and this is probably yours – which is a strengthened Commission and consists of six members, a proposal, namely the chairman, drawn up by the Federal Government, further the four parliamentary parties are members and a country representative is inside. That is to say, it is the plurality that has been realized in Parliament, which is also realized in the Media Commission, and it is not possible to correct subsequent results of elections through laws. It's just impossible. Very briefly on the negotiations. Here again, I would like to quote Gerd Bacher, and that is what really hurts me personally. Mr Cap has also found very clear words for Mr Bacher: "In the SPÖ, the story of Cap is in conflict with its better knowledge than Mullah of media policy." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As pleasant as it is to have a personal conversation with Mr Cap, I would like to ask you very urgently: Conjugation You are not Austrian media policy, honourable Member! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to make one more quote, including this time from the SPÖ. If you remember, an independent federalasylsenate was formed in June 1997, and this is the now proposed independent Federal Communications Senate, so it is a completely identical construction. And then Mrs Hlavac von der SPÖ found the following words on the Bundesasylsenat: "In particular, it seems to me to be the creation of an independent federal asylsenate as a second instance. ... I think that this will ensure a great deal of independence in the decisions of asylum law." – We are also of this opinion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to highlight: Today's discussion is particularly regrettable, because all experts – and of course, experts will be sent to these commissions, because this is a future issue of the Austrians – are subject by all opposition parties to the fact that they are nothing but the hands of the Party's policy. And these ladies and gentlemen didn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12741	The next speaker would be Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. But it is only a minute's time since a short debate is scheduled at 3 p.m. I am therefore interrupting the meeting by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12765	Ladies and gentlemen! At 3 p.m., I will resume the very brief session of the National Council. Short debate on the reply to the question 1420/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12796	We arrive at the short debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology with the order number 1420/AB. The answer to the question has been distributed to all the members of the House so that a reading by a writer or a writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw the attention of the first speaker, Mrs Lichtenberger, to the fact that she has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. The opinion of a member of the Federal Government is also limited to 10 minutes. The other speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. In this sense, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Lichtenberger.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12833	Ladies and gentlemen! I have made this answer to the question of the so-called CEMT quotas – we will certainly still be in the debate on what is behind it – because this is a question, a problem that is urgently a matter for the further action to be taken before April 2001 in order to be able at least to slow down gross and even larger problems with regard to the load from transitory trucks in Austria. The European Commission's report on the success of the restrictions within the transit agreement has been the starting point for the request I have put forward and which has been discussed today, which has been very comprehensively answered, but with little data. In this context, the Commission has found that the Ecopoints Regulation has made a major step towards environmental discharge and that the ceiling set in the transit agreement could therefore be exceeded. I do not want to address the details of the transit system now, but this report by the Commission mentions prominently the results of the evaluation that one of the major factors in the field of transport pollution is also the so-called CEMT quotas. CEMT quotas are quotas which have already been exempted from the ecopoints duty in the transit contract and which – and this is particularly remarkable – have also experienced a special growth rate. CEMT quotas are quotas allowing trucks to pass through Austria, even if they do not have ecopoints to pass through Austria. CEMT quotas are – and this is the special thing that should wake up all of us, including the small and medium-sized enterprises in the transport sector – a distortion of competition, which is unacceptablely favouring the large ones in the market. The rules for the award of CEMT quotas clearly state that they are to be given to those who are particularly able to drive a lot and drive a lot. That's the rulework inside. This was created in 1974 and was made by the Commission with the intention of promoting liberalisation – I say: centralisation – on the freight market in Europe. Now to the question. The answer to the question I have received from the Minister for Foreign Affairs is only a small one in the dark of a regulation that urgently needs to be changed. In essence, Mrs Minister, you can only tell me that nothing can be said about the details of these so-called CEMT quotas, with the help of which the greats in the market are not allowed and distorting competition: There are no figures on transits, there are no details; although you know about the tonne kilometres that are being driven, the data that land in Paris at the headquarters are not evaluated. You, Mrs Minister, also write in this reply to the question that it would be an undue extra effort to deal with this question. Here, Mrs. Minister, I have to contradict you. In view of the threatening debate on the issue of the departure of the ceiling in transit traffic, which will be speeding up in April and which, contrary to all the statements on unanimity, will be so decided by the Commission with the greatest probability against the will of Austria, one must immediately bring light into the dark not only in Austria but at European level. At European level, there is a process that is crucial not only for the much quoted West Austria and the transit valleys, but also for Eastern Austria in particular. It is already true today that the large companies from Austria, but above all from the Netherlands and Luxembourg, buy up the so-called CEMT quotas, i.e. the free letter of transit, which will become free in the Central and Eastern European countries. This creates huge structures that can undermine any treaty that can break down any transit regime in Europe. These CEMT quotas – and here I see at European level a so-called Window of Opportunity – must now, and immediately, be addressed, Mrs Minister. You now have the task of seeking, at European level, alliance partners – and you will find them safe with SMEs – at last controlling and questioning these CEMT quotas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] While you write in your answer that within Austria the CEMT quotas only go to the particularly "clean" trucks, the control of this is completely lacking. We don't know a hint about it – no addition! – how "clean" they really are and how often these "clean" trucks pass through and, by many rides, of course, overcompensate the reduction of pollutants again. Mrs. Minister! The solution to this question is important because we need a follow-up to the transit agreement after 2003 and because we already have to start with the debate on the fact that a free letter, a free ticket for the greats on the market, can neither fit into a European logic of transport nor into a European logic of competition, and at all – and that in the last place – can fit into a European environmental policy. You must now question these quotas, Mrs Minister, and you must now control them. The following makes me thinkful: I experience a Mr. Weingartner, who always mutates as a transit fighter in Tyrol when there is a great weather, but then refuses to declare punishment if there is a crime. But I also know the letter from the Chamber of Commerce, which clearly and clearly states that it wants zero restrictions in transit after 2003. I would have liked to ask Mr. stupidly – if he were there – once again how all this fits together. Is it really the clear line of the new coalition to remove any restrictions in the transit agreement and not to seek a successor to the transit agreement for the period after 2003? If this line prevails, then we do not need to discuss this question. I think it is high time to question these quotas, to control them, and not just to call upon them – and this is my demand for you, Mrs Minister – to ensure that it is an undue effort. We will have to make this effort, you will have to carry it out in the interests of the transit-plaged Austrians in order to be able to stand argumentatively against the EU Transport Commission if it tells you: Forget the transit contract, the CEMT rules are much more important anyway! The information you have communicated to me in part is clear: From 1996 to 1998 there was a doubling of the tonne-kilometres that were driven with the help of these quotas. A doubling in two years – this must be an alarm signal of first rank! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need these data at European level, and we need concerted action against these CEMT quotas. They will have to seek and find alliance partners at European level in order to carry out what transport logistics in Europe finally transforms into environmental protection and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12926	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e12948	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ecopoints regime, violations of ecopoints obligations, a more than bizarre dispute about the punishment of ecopoints sinners between the head of state Weingartner and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, transit burden, road pricing, CEMT approval and so on – these are the many concerns and burdens of an increasingly affected population that we are discussing with you here in the High House on every occasion. However, all these points have not yet been resolved from your side, from the side of the government parties, unfortunately – not even close! .................................................................................................. These concerns of the most serious people affected by transit, namely the population of Tyrol, are obviously no matter to you by the black and blue government, because we have had a zero transport policy of free ministers since the change of government a year ago. Her predecessor, Mrs. Minister, Minister of Short-term Schmid, and you, too, have in your term – as the Tyrolean press writes – received the call of an "anti-Tyrol Minister". Ladies and gentlemen! Our country is suffocating in traffic, but you have not been able to get close to the transit problem. They were unable at European level to regulate the ecopoints obligation to address the ecopoints problem in favour of Austria. Unfortunately, we must also fear that the Ecopoints limit of 108 percent will fall base value. In respect of transit contracts, you announced on 14 March. On 20 December 2000, after a first meeting with Commissioner for Transport de Palacio, the Ecopoints system will continue to run until 2003, but the Commissioner for Transport made a positive start on 20 December 2000. It is clear to the public on December 2000, that restrictions on the quantity of trucks in Austria are to be removed in the transit contract. It is not clear what the Ecopoints Regulation will continue after the new quantity exceeding 2000 or what the transit contract scheme will look like beyond 2003. What's going to be Do you take action against the new overrun of the Ecopoints quota in 2000? Have you requested consequences in Brussels? Will you ensure that a revision procedure is initiated? If so, until when do we have a decision on this? What happens, for example, to the Brennermaut complaint? How will you decide, Mrs. Federal Minister? What do you say about the toll stretching in the Unterinntal? When are there decisions in this regard? The reduction of the Brennermaut is not a transport policy alternative, especially since the 1st century. In January 2001, Switzerland collects a heavy traffic tax and we expect to see a stronger transit through our country. You have so far remained guilty of the answer to what you will do regarding the extension of the transit agreement after 2003. How will you continue to negotiate with the EU in this matter? Another question: What happens to the saved ecopoints? Will these be deducted in the future? Or: What happens to the nutritious ecopoint probes, to those who repeatedly exceed their quota? Will there be consequences from your side? We call for the strictest punishment of these notorious ecopoints probes, that is to say, up to the execution of a commercial withdrawal procedure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Will you co-negotiate the circumvention of the ecopoints regime in road freight transit by Austria by means of CEMT approval in the light of EU enlargement? In the course of the enlargement of the EU, the journeys of the East-West transit must also be negotiated. Here is the opportunity to re-arrange the CEMT rides. Up to date, every fifth transit journey is a journey with CEMT approval. This must be regulated in the context of the enlargement negotiations in the transit agreement. In other words, CEMT approvals must be recorded under the Ecopoints system in the future, which means extending the Ecopoints system to all new accession countries. The technical standard of the countries' vehicles outside the ecopoint system is considered to be worse than that of the trucks operating in the ecopoint system. The accession negotiations offer the opportunity to negotiate this system. Mrs. Federal Minister! A clear legal clarity can finally be reached in the fight against ecopoint sinners with the head of state Weingartner. Weingartner continues to criticize the legal quality of your letter. Clearly, he does not feel your letter as an instruction, therefore also the clear question: Did you give Tirol's head of state Weingartner an instruction in this regard? Does your letter also contain the word "wisdom"?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13002	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13017	Ladies and gentlemen! We have today tabled a motion for a resolution on ecopoints controls and have been distributed to the transport speakers. We invite you to join this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13048	Mr Reheis! I assume that this is a self-employed motion for a resolution which is assigned to the Committee, because only requests can be made in this debate to take note of or not to take note of the reply to the question. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: No! The request will come later!]] - Good. Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13090	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Members of the House! Mr Reheis, your criticism is very comprehensive, especially with regard to the current government, but I believe that many of these points you have raised would be more likely to address those who have worked before us, and in particular those who have negotiated the position of transit and the transport strategy in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This leads to a very important point: For the first time, a government is really going on consistently! I have said from the beginning that this is a credible position, and the credible position also belongs to us doing our homework. For a long time, the discussion – and you have taken it up again today – lasted on the question: Are our laws sufficient to deal with abuses of regulations that are an important part of the transit agreement? - We didn't make it easy. Federal Minister Schmid has already commissioned two opinions, and both of them clearly point out that there is criminality and that no further regulations are possible with a change in the legal situation, including one proposed by you. You know that very well. Therefore, the accusation that we are not committed to the country of Tyrol cannot really be accepted. On the contrary! For the first time, too! It may already be when it comes to one's own country and the companies get through, which is sometimes not so pleasant, but we have to do everything we can to show from our side that this is important to us. I am therefore on a general issue, since we can also take part in the issue of CEMT quotas. The fact is that these derogations were also part of the Treaty. Overall – and I have done this in the answer to the question – 22 percent of all journeys are not analysed in detail; I can tell you that too, Mrs Lichtenberger. But you know very well that this amount does not only result from the CEMT quotas, but also from a wealth of other points. The fact is that we cannot water down now by discussing possible derogations that we already have in the EU Treaty, in order to allow the other countries to continue to have their argumentation that our Treaties are not good, namely not good, which are enforceable, which can be easily controlled and can also be executed. I do not think it is good for us in Austria to criticise a system now – at a time when you are very conscious of the fact that we have to insist on our system in bilateral agreements in order to get a proper solution for 2003. Everyone is discussing the need to maintain the ecopoints solution, but internally in Austria we are discussing the fact that we also have gaps in control – how should we be strengthened in the EU? Unfortunately, their arguments are counterproductive, even if they are professional, and I say that quite clearly to you, right. We have gaps! We have gaps, which unfortunately cannot be closed by our national laws. It is therefore essential that we do everything we can in control and in executionability. So my activities can be understood. That's the consequence. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is also the consequence with which we must act so that we have a strong negotiating position. It is a question of ensuring that the regulations are complied with in the other countries as part of official assistance. This leads me back to the change of law. We cannot do anything with the rules we have in our national law. It has been negotiated that there is an official assistance, i.e. assistance in exploring illegal ecopoint drivers, and that is what we need to support. If we do not act strongly, we do not represent our country! With an internal discussion on what laws should be adapted so that we have excuses for extending something, we certainly cannot strengthen our position. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13159	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13180	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lichtenberger, I have already read your request with some strangers, and I am not going to be able to say straightaway that thank God not everything you personally have no knowledge of – "had" one has to say, because you have now been enlightened – is like a grey zone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to take a very brief look at what we are actually talking about. We are talking about an agreement concluded under the CEMT, which is the Austrian Transport Ministerial Conference, at a time when Austria was not yet a member of the European Union; an agreement on multilateral quotas for road transport. At that time, when there was no ecopoints regulation, and at that time, when restrictions on international, multilateral, were still much more difficult for Austria outside the EU than they are today, an agreement was concluded which provided for restrictions of the type to allow transit goods travel through Austria under certain conditions that were precisely standardised. In this respect, other European countries have gone a different way than Austria at the time and under the CEMT since then. In fact, other countries do not limit these quotas at all, whereas Austria has attached certain conditions to the granting of these quotas. On the one hand, this very clear, legal framework sets out a precisely limited maximum number of trucks that are allowed to drive. Any State that is a member of this Agreement may choose: either 16 approvals for conventional trucks – those are not particularly quiet and not particularly low in exhaust gas – or twice as many, i.e. 32 approvals for "green" trucks that have to comply with mandatory noise and exhaust regulations, or twice as many, namely 64 permits for "supergreen and safe" trucks with even stricter exhaust regulations and additional mandatory safety regulations. It is therefore still true that it has been agreed through Austrian pressure that both the licences for "green" and "supergreen" trucks and the CEMT approval must be carried even on each journey. That is why I cannot understand if it is said here that nothing is checked and nothing can be checked either. Of course, if, for example, a truck is rolling through Tyrol and the ecopoints are controlled and this truck has no ecopoints, it must be checked, which is why this vehicle is allowed to drive through Austria. And for this purpose, the ID cards are according to CEMT. The CEMT approvals were taken into account when the transit contract was concluded in the Ecopoints Regulation. I give you the right – in which, I believe, all the parties have now agreed – that this ecopoints rule was not successful, has huge gaps and that unfortunately this still has an effect. However, this is the CEMT agreement, I must say with regret. Of 2.3 million transit journeys, almost 80 percent are ecopointable, but the reverse connection is not allowed to be a CEMT truck for that reason. – Mr Reheis has said that before, and I would like to say that correctly. It is rather true that there are other bilateral agreements with other countries which are not CEMT members. As far as the volume of these CEMT journeys is concerned, we know that in 1999, for example, 1.57 million tonnes were transported per licence. If we calculate this once, Mrs. Lichtenberger, for example, on the Kufstein–Wörgl route, this would mean that 400 journeys between Kufstein and Brenner are expected to travel to and fro – and this every year! This means that, on average, a little more than a single transit journey would be possible on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13225	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13241	Indeed, we have much greater concerns in Tyrol than this CEMT agreement. So something makes me very happy: that three Tyroleans have spoken here today and that the Federal Minister and the entire House have certainly become aware that the situation with us in Tyrol is a special one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13271	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Speaking time: 5 minutes. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13292	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a problem if, as the two first speakers have proved, you do not make yourself very smart about matter. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What?]] I am grateful to Mr Hakl for providing very material information here. Ladies and gentlemen! Here, in the political discussion of representatives of the opposition parties, things are always inadmissibly mixed. One, Mrs Lichtenberger, I must say to you: Austria has historically entered into a number of contracts. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You can change everyone!]] Whether these Treaties are good or not is good is another question, but one must already pay tribute to a principle as a democratic party, which means: "Pacta sunt servanda". [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This also applies to the transit contract!]] If the contracts are not good, Mrs Lichtenberger, d’accord, then we have to talk thoroughly about how we get out, and we do, this ministry does. I think it's a big joke if you put in question 14 or 15 in your question: What has the Federal Ministry done since 1993?- Oh, my God! I can tell you that you should have formulated the question differently. You should have written: From 1993 to 2000, nothing was done, and from 2000/2001 on, what the Minister has just said is done. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So your question, Mrs Lichtenberger, was, once again, green, left, tendentious, and this, ladies and gentlemen, we reject! Ladies and gentlemen! There are three points that have already been tailor-made: first, the CEMT rule, which essentially dates back to 1974 – please listen carefully to: 1974! – resulting in different adaptations for multilateral journeys, second, bilateral agreements and thirdly in 1994, when the transit agreement was negotiated, this reduction, but it was clear that this was taken into account. Now we know – and this has already been said in the debate today – that the ecopoints system is not only problematic from the outcome of the negotiations, but – I would like to go a step further – that: The eco-drives also include a system-technical error. Think, Mrs Lichtenberger: If today a truck with a CEMT licence, which also carries the caster for ecopoints rides, comes from Hungary across the border to Austria and leaves Passau Austria again, this truck has a time window of 6 or 7 hours. He does not press a ride for this, so no debit because he has the CEMT approval, a valid approval. However, the ecopoint system captures it when it enters the border and also when the border exits, within the time window, and it is booked as a black driver. – There is a system mistake, Mrs Colleague, you have to understand! We must do everything we can to facilitate the debate in this policy-making process, and we must not simply shoot and say: That's a brat, the minister didn't do anything! - That, please, we're not enough. Get used to discussing matters with us! The same also applies to regular transit journeys, there is also a system error. If we are looking for a way to correct such mistakes, you can also talk to us reasonablely. It is only a question of asking for an answer, so that you in Tyrol may be able to create a bit of a whirlwind again and say that the Minister would not have "functioned again", just as it fits you politically, which, Mrs Lichtenberger and also Mr Reheis, is truly too little for us. They must be more creative and constructive in order to jump on this train.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13366	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Speaking time: 5 minutes. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13387	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear young people and listeners at the gallery! That the transit theme now burns and will stand in bright flames in 2003, I believe, is clear to everyone. Everyone keeps track of the reports that show: the increase in journeys, the increase in environmental pollution in the most sensitive regions, namely in the Alpine regions, in those regions where the ecosystem is also most sensitive and people are most suffering. It is now time – and therefore, Mrs Minister, you understand our discussion of your answer to your question as a signal – to perceive all possible instruments and means in order to complement or replace the resulting transit agreement with a follow-up arrangement, or to have measures, instruments available, so that we do not finally fall home to the transitmoloch. That's how it's understood. A part of the transit, namely 22 percent, and half of it, quite correctly said, also applies to quotas negotiated under the CEMT Treaty in 1974. Now you could discuss CEMT on the subject, then you will certainly agree in the fact and in the assessment that CEMT is a free letter for transit journeys because it is a means of liberalising transit journeys. And so I consider it to be your objective, Mrs Minister, in the sense of continuing a transit contract, in the sense of limiting travel through the Alps in your specialist bodies, in the Council of Ministers discussions, in the various negotiations, whether in Brussels or elsewhere, to argue with "hard facts". That is why it is so dangerous that you cannot accurately record this grey zone, which represents approximately 200 000 journeys within the CEMT. Since 1992 in particular, your predecessors have not noticed any activity going on, illuminating this grey zone and collecting hard facts. This is your task here and now, and that is why we have called for this question to be answered today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now and today, this has to go out massively as a signal: They take it seriously, we take it seriously, that 2003 must not end with restrictions, but 2003 must be a replacement system, because the growth rates within this grey area of CEMT were at least 5 250 tonnes in 1998. This is a doubling compared to 1994! And these are numbers and "hard facts" with them. You have to argue, data that you need to ask even more closely at the Secretariat in Paris. The answer of your employees to this detailed question on our part conveys a clear message: We know too little, and this too little knowledge limits our argumentation base! – That is the case, and we want you to act here in particular, and this discussion today serves to strengthen your backbone in this direction. Two more comments on my previous speakers. Mrs. Hakl! On the basis of your first speech you gave here – a dedicated speech in the sense of the impact of the population in Tyrol, in the sense of the impact of the population on other transit routes – I would have expected you to continue this line of concern, but you are diverted to a line of milling lobby, I would almost say, at least I have got this impression. In my opinion, this is very worrying if a dedicated colleague within the EIA – no six months – suddenly becomes a turning point in this sensitive chapter of transit policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They've exchanged a lot of things. I don't want to teach you school now, but: In 1974 the European Council of Ministers was at work and not the Austrian. You also have to hold on to this as a small Bonmot. To my other previous speaker: It is certainly a question of changing the Treaties, as bad as they are, Mr Firlinger. We don't have to take them in full, but it's important to change them, and you're doing too little to make them change. I am certainly of your opinion that we need to take note of them, what is it useful?, but the knowledge taking on the other side of the medal has the active counter-attacks and the active-initiation, that it will be better and that the local population will not suffer from this massive increase in transit. All directions in this development point to this terrible future perspective, especially in view of the fact that we will now be given an even stronger East-West transit to the North-South transit.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13447	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13463	It was already discussed in the morning that the east opening, the east extension will bring more traffic, including within the framework of the CEMT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13493	I conclude the short debate on the answer to the question, in which all four political groups have spoken. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13514	The next item is the short debate on the request by Mr Kostelka, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Mr Kostelka's motion for a resolution (Doc. 18/A) and Mr Kostelka's motion for a resolution on the reform of the Rules of Procedure. ==References== After the end of the debate, the vote will be taken on this request for a deadline. We are going into the debate. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes, all the other speakers have such a speaking time of 5 minutes. – Mr Dr Kostelka, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13545	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The EIA's proposed deadline today shows that this government is based on a very one-dimensional concept of democracy: Constitutional development seems to be exclusively the implementation of the FPÖ/ÖVP governance programme and its party programmes. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, you will have to take note: That won't happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol addressed me in a letter and informed me that we should finally start working in the Constitutional Committee. In a press release, he said that his motion for a resolution is nothing but an emergency right against a chairman who does not comply with his duties. Mr Khol! This is white chuzpe! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: word choice! Language of violence!]] This is a distortion of the facts! A refusal of work has come from your side. In this context, I should like to remind you that there were 35 presidents in total and that in each of these presidential sessions we wished to discuss these constitutional problems. You've agreed! You said no! You do not want a democratic package worthy of this name! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Endless applause!]] For you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, the democratic package consists of two parts: the request for the election of letters and the request for a referendum for a large popular desire. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: On the matter, Mr President! He is speaking on the next request for a deadline!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it must be said that there is a unity in terms of the Rules of Procedure and constitutional provisions relating to the Rules of Procedure. It is also part of the creation of a minority right to set up a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now he's getting to the point! It's useful!]] We believe that the Constitution is a unity, and we, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Khol, Professor Khol, do not artificially separate between Article 56 and Article 26. It is dubious democracy that you want to create in this context! As an example, I would like to mention your request for a referendum. We have looked closely at this, ladies and gentlemen: Democracy is proclaimed, but no popular desire of the total of 24 people – since 1945 – would have led to a referendum. That's hell of a democracy! They lead the citizen just as much around us – at least try it – because nothing else does it mean to introduce the chewings you are looking for. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You did that! That was your time!]] They say: Of course, according to a popular desire, a referendum takes place if the National Council does not comply with that, but it must not be affected in this context by constitutional law, not be affected by Community law, no obligations under international law, and financial additional burdens must not take place. That's hell of a democracy! This is because you are in fact creating a right that would not have been effective in 24 popular desires since 1945. This is your policy, namely to say in the window: We want to communicate democracy! but to your own party officials: We don't do that anyway, because it's too dangerous! – This is your “righteousness” in this context! Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that there must be a unity of constitutional reform. I have proposed several dates to you. – Mr Khol, you wrote a long letter stating that I had rejected dates. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your own group does not believe that!]] Please tell me a single date that my group has rejected in connection with the Constitutional Committee. In this letter you do not even have the right in your final sentence. In this letter, you will write in the final sentence that I will also give you for the 2nd. Proposals have been made on February and it is significant that no single EIA and FPÖ proposal appears on this proposal. That's right! And you know why? Because we have proposed that we first start discussions on our requests to allocate them to the constitutional subcommittees set up, and then to hold a discussion on everything together. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! You have not even discussed our requests in the Constitutional Committee so far. You have set up subcommittees on your requests, but you do not set dates for them either, because you do not want to discuss them in principle. Mr Khol! Have you ever agreed to an appointment to the Subcommittee on a Animal Protection Template? Hundreds of dates were proposed to you, but no one was possible. The same is true of economic and social fundamental rights. The exact same is the case with your request concerning the democratic package. There has been no deadline proposals on your part. They basically didn't want to work either. What you want is hell democracy! The real reason for this discussion, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, is relatively easy to guess when reading the documents from your congress in Alpbach. In this chapter, 'democracy', there is no word of what you refer to as a priority in this context. The only thing in this is to read about the civil society, which all Austrians already know until the neck hangs out. Because you yourself have noticed that it is not likely that you will not come to the media, you have invented this request. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, is, however, an act of dishonesty because it is intended to hide inactivity in this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! What I require from you is simply and simply that you implement your own statements. ==References== December 1999 in the Subcommittee and in the Committee expressly stated that you are ready for a constitutional change and will give a qualified minority a right to set up investigative committees. They have also said that there will be further constitutional rights. But you seem to have forgotten this in the meantime. You don't want to know anything about a comprehensive objectiveion law anymore. I understand that, in fact, because with the policy you are making, you can't be for objectivation. Furthermore, you don't want to know anything more about additional rights for the People's Procuratorate. You only want show in this context! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You will have to note that you cannot treat the members of the Constitutional Committee as Mr Sallmutter did. They will have to note that a majority of 54 percent is not a two-thirds majority. They will also have to note that social democracy has to participate in every constitutional law and will ensure that the blue-black trees do not grow in heaven. In all seriousness: You have a fair, open interlocutors in us – then if you really want to talk about the Constitution if you really want to talk about the further development of the Constitution! But you won't find a cooperation partner in us when it comes to your embarrassment Gags at your congresses in Alpbach!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13765	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13786	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that following what Klubobmann Kostelka has just said, it is really worth saying – and this is addressed to your address, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups – that democracy in understanding, not only the teaching, but also our contribution, not only means that the simple majority decides, but also that democracy means a system in which, among other things, as many interests of the population are properly taken into account. That is why we are holding this debate today on a deadline request. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, seem to see this differently. In your coalition pact, you have agreed to do certain things, such as to introduce the choice of letters and under certain conditions to provide for the referendum if a popular desire has reached many votes. But you will also need our approval for some measure. We are now ready to be available as an interlocutors about things you consider important, we are ready to conduct a discussion with you and, if necessary, to come to a conclusion, but, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, which will not go so smoothly, is that you realize the idea that you have a little more than the absolute majority anyway and therefore make those constitutional changes you want, and think we will somehow already agree, but simply do not treat those changes that we consider necessary, such as the creation of a minority right to set up an investigation committee. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! You've also gotten used to us when we say: We are not available for every wish and demand that you talk to us about certain things! to accuse that would be junkimierery or the old packaging you had approved of. With no exception, you have agreed that you are just not willing to take note that there are interests of people in this Republic that you have not chosen and whose interests we represent and whose interests can and must also be legitimately represented here. The other thing is that you should also see: The two-thirds requirement in the Constitution has not been introduced so as to make it harder to decide, but therefore to ensure that most of the population is represented by the decisions made. That is why it is worthwhile to make an effort, and that is what we expect of you. In this sense, we not only appeal, but also point out clearly: You will refer us to constitutional provisions which you decide in the government or elsewhere, saying: Fresh bird or dead!, do not find as a partner because this is not a democratic method of changing our common state. It's not Your government on the basis of your majority of 54 percent, but it is the state of all Austrians, and we will either bear joint responsibility for it, or you will not be able to enforce your drafts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13856	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13881	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ein! You have meant that the debate on democracy is about taking as many interests as possible into account. Does the Wiener know that too? Does this also know Mr. Häupl? – In contrast to the Vienna Landtag, there has been the possibility here in the National Council for decades to set up investigative committees, but you act as if democracy would suddenly go down the stream. [[Abg. Dr. One: Vienna has it as a minority right!]] For about 13 years, the discussions have even been open to the media, and in 1997 – remember? – a separate Rules of Procedure for Investigation Committees has been installed in agreement with SPÖ and the Greens. This Rules of Procedure is currently being tested in the "Euroteam" investigative committee. This committee did not start or start its work until a few months ago. And I have to say that for the first time in ten years, a committee of inquiry has been set up. In the 1990s, you, the SPÖ, repeatedly prevented the setting up of investigation committees. We want this investigation committee to work in peace and to gain knowledge from it. This committee is committed to enormous capacity of the club, and I can remind you that, in order to cope with it, the government parties have even agreed to oppose requests for additional budget resources in the Budget Committee. That is to say, the opposition has required additional resources, and we have agreed. It has always been our view that we should not intervene in a ongoing procedure, and we therefore want to wait for the experience gained from the ongoing investigation committee. However, if the need for an improvement arises, we are of course very willing by the ÖVP to enter into intensive and serious discussions about it. A minority right to set up committees of inquiry, which you so strongly mount, is unknown in Europe, with the exception of Germany. [[Abg. Dr. One: And Vienna!]] But even the alleged minority right in the German Bundestag is actually only a theoretical one, because, contrary to our Parliament, in this body there is a high culture of consensus, which is easy to establish, and there the investigation order is generally defined by common agreement. In addition, German constitutional law knows the organ complaint unknown in Austrian law, which would have to be examined in comparison with Germany also in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] By the way, the Austrian Parliament is in fact the top class in Europe in equipment with minority rights. For example, the German Bundestag has no possibility, compared to Austria, to order special audits of the Court of Auditors and the like. All in all, therefore, we see no need from the ÖVP to agree to the SPÖ's request for deadlines.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13948	The next speaker was Mr Graf. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e13969	Mr President. High house! It is always interesting to observe how to change the position with the location, what you always notice at SPÖ when it suddenly discovers democracy as the current opposition party – I can quote what you have called for – when it discovers the Constitution when it discovers the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I have already called for this as a representative of the government party!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Did I do this or not?]] It is precisely with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kostelka, that you are most on the foot of the war. You cannot even make a proper request, as we have noticed. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is slightly primitive!]] Learn the rules of procedure that you yourself have decided! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: What pattern do you follow? Whenever you get into distress, attack! According to pattern 378! Always the same! Unique!]] It is very interesting that you suddenly discover the topic of "popular desire" and say that 24 people's desires had not resulted. That's where I ask you: Who ruled then? Products not classified within You in the government at the time? Or have you forgotten? Of course that's worrying! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Of course, this House is also here to ask questions. Or is this suddenly forbidden? I say to you, Mr Kostelka: I can quote your statements on this subject from 1999 and also those of President Fischer, as he has pointed out on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Are you doing what you said, or are you not doing it?]] At that time, President Fischer, he did not say the following: "If one constructs this minority right, however, one will have unbelievable problems. One could agree on this," he continued, "that an investigation committee, if possible, should be set up on the basis of a consensus on a current case." Do you know what consensus means? – Consensus ultimately means unanimity. That's going to be Don't be strange to them. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You are not looking for unanimity!]] Consensus certainly does not mean a minority right. President Dr. Fischer at the time, at best, saw this as "subsidiary law", as he then continued to carry out. From this abundance of the problems that exist, experience reports have been collected, experts and foreign parliamentarians have been heard. We've got all this behind us. We have heard a lot of points of view, and now – and that is the decisive thing; even in the debate in December 1999, which was not long ago, it was agreed that one should test this new instrument once at a trial or event, and we are right here – there is an investigation committee, and we are looking at the results of the proceedings. In a committee of inquiry – that should be a minority right, as we still think it is unbroken – it does not matter as much whether the establishment of a committee of inquiry is a majority or minority right. That is also essential, not a question, but much more essential, how the Rules of Procedure are lived, how the decisions taken in the Committee take place, where the Committee demarcates between majority and minority decisions. If one solves it in the way it has now solved the Vienna Landtag – and essentially in a Ho-ruck action – that, although one allows the establishment of an investigation committee for the first time, in the Committee itself, however, everything is so strictly normed that in the end it is hardly possible for the minority to exercise control, then it has nothing to do with democracy. That's not how we want to solve it! If in the package, as the Social Democrats have done in Vienna, opposition rights are also circumcised by restricting extraordinary plenary sessions and the like, then one shoots beyond the goal, then one has actually weakened the opposition. We don't want that! We have been in opposition long enough and have all recognized these problems. It depends on the living content. And there is always a different opinion between the Social Democrats, whether they are in the opposition series or on the government side. It can't be like that! They themselves are in constant regret with the Greens, on almost every plenary day, that the Rules of Procedure are restrictive. These Rules of Procedure have been decided by you and the Greens, together with the ÖVP, against the will of the liberals. Today, you live relatively badly with this Rules of Procedure, but you have decided to do so. I have already said from this speaker's point of view: Decision You have this Rules of Procedure in full consciousness, you may also be in opposition! You did not take this advice from me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And now it's ready!]] Now it's ready. And you will have to understand that the two government parties are now acting in this House in accordance with the Rules of Procedure you have adopted.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14098	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14113	This must and will be acceptable, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14143	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Same speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14165	Mr President. High house! The oppositional desire to set up a committee of inquiry as the right of a qualified minority has always been discussed in this House for a very long time. It has been said here that the respective position determines the attitude. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Stand ort!]] That may be true, but I remember, Dr. Khol, very well, that commitments have been made, and I regret that these have become forgotten so quickly, beyond the views of the government or opposition party. There were also you, Dr. Khol, who said, at the time – I remember well – that we were sitting in local VII – if there were rights of protection for witnesses and if there is a new Rules of Procedure, then there is nothing in principle against the possibility of setting up investigation committees at the request of the minority. Since then, much has happened, in which the public is very interested: Scandale, incidents that have not been resolved to date; from the political backgrounds of the Kurds murder to the interrelationships in the banking sector, which have resulted in the Praschak suicide, to Lassing up to now, to the interrelationships in the agricultural sector, to the drug scandals, where it is obvious that there is Konnexe in politics, which hopefully is not relevant to criminal law, but probably politically. You promised, but this promise has been broken by you. We take note of this, but one thing you will also have to take note of: that we will not let go of it and ask questions for so long until you are made so loud by the public that you will have to set up these investigation committees. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You won't succeed!]] We'll see! There are a few questions that you try to get under the carpet with great effort, but the public interest can not be dizzy so easily. This is not as easy to achieve as you seem to break given promises. At the end of this short debate, however, it is still important for me to make a brief comment on the style of the previous short debate. There Mr Firlinger said to my colleague Eva Lichtenberger that, when she put forward this request, she had not made herself sufficiently smart, and he said, when he then came to the speaker's desk, that it should now come back to a compromise. We know from men this way of having discussions with women enough. [[Ah-noise with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] From the kind of argumentation, beyond your good right, to be different opinion, democracy lives, and of it also lives the debate in this House, but especially at the address of a very competent woman, who has been working on these issues for a very long time, to use such words, that is a kind of political mobbing, that is sexistic, that is impertinent, that is plump, displaced and absolutely unnecessary – and there I am still very polite. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] This way you will get used to yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14256	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude this short debate. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting, and we are voting on the request for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to report on the motion for a resolution 18/A by Dr Kostelka and Comrades to be put to the vote. May this year to sit. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a deadline to give a sign in this regard. – The request did not find the necessary majority. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14292	The third short debate concerns the request made by Mr Dr. Khol and Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 98/A by Dr. Khol and Ing. ==References====External links== ==References== We shall now hold the debate and vote after the end of the debate. We are going into the debate. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Please, Mr. Dr. Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14322	Ladies and gentlemen! Cicero's speeches – one of the most famous starts with "Quousque teeth... Catilina...". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] How long, Mr Kostelka, will you take our patience? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Accept an appointment!]] So I compared Catilina to Kostelka, and that's very honorable for him. Chairman of the Constitutional Committee: How Long to Be You use our patience and our requests from the 1. Do not put the Constitutional Committee's agenda on March 2000? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is the untruth of the system!]] ==References== We have made these requests on March 2000, and they are not on the agenda until today. Today, we have requested a deadline to be set for the Constitutional Committee: ==References== In June he will report otherwise, Mr Kostelka, we will vote here in plenary without your report, because our patience is over. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References== In September 2000, at the presidential meeting, we suggested that all the important constitutional bodies be ordered by baskets and then used subcommittees. Mr Kostelka has said that he is the 11th. He's going to present this on October. The mill I hear well, only I see’ no flour. We still do not have these proposals! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: On 1. October you got the letter!]] ==References== I once again discussed the questions on October 2000. As a result, discussions at the level of the political groups were initiated by the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka leaves the meeting room.]] - Well, he can't listen to the list of his misdeeds. He's fleeing the Walstatt! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References====External links== In December, I made a number of comments on this issue again. Mr Kostelka then said that he was going to have talks with the leader of the group Dr Baumgartner. The talks were still not started, we didn't get any dates. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not allow important demands on our federal constitution to be curtailed with less important and committee deliberations to take place only if we accept these junkims. We won't allow that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: And you determine what's important?- Oh, my God!]] The Italians have a saying: Quando il sol’ tramonta l’asino s’impunta! Translated, in German: In the evening the sloth will be diligent! It is only when we have announced this deadline request that Mr Kostelka has suddenly become diligent, and today he has put forward requests for deadlines on the agenda which would otherwise have never been on the agenda. Only these differ from ours: His will be rejected, and ours will be accepted. That's the difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also suddenly received a letter that a meeting of the Constitutional Committee could be held on 2 October. February, so tomorrow. "If the sun is between the mountains, the donkey will be diligent!" – that is the Italian proverb. By the end of the week, we're supposed to do this. Suddenly, there are dates, because of course one is afraid of the light of the public. – That’s not how it will be played! ==References== On 1 March 2000 applications were submitted which had the following content: We want popular desire, supported by 15 percent of the electorate, to lead to a referendum. Actually, we wanted 10 percent. But when we agreed to this with the Social Democrats for a common government programme at the time, the Social Democrats said: 10 percent – that is not possible at all. We can only make 15 percent. – Well, we said that if we get the constitutional majority, 15 percent. I also have to say that the larger people's desire, of course, had all led to the referendum, because in about 5 million right-wings there are 750 000 signatures; the women's people's desire, the animal welfare people's desire, the nuclear people's desire, a whole series of popular desires would have led to a referendum. President Fischer and Mr Gusenbauer have also become supporters of direct democracy. The last suggestions for referendums came from these two gentlemen on the issue of the budget accompanying laws. If you are here for direct democracy, please always and everywhere – and not only if you are sure that your own proposal – hopefully, thank God! – is anyway rejected. That's what it was! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second proposal was the introduction of the letter election. Of course, we urgently need the choice of letters to be introduced by a Constitutional Act, because the Constitutional Court has established that this must be the case. Austria is one of the very few countries that do not know the choice of letters. In other countries you can already vote by e-mail, and we're still going with the post-coach. That's incredible! And why? – Because the Social Democrats told me: That costs us a mandate. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No!]] – Two, do you think, Mr. Arbitrator? I don't know. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, not at all!]] I wouldn't be so pessimistic in your place. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Make sure you switch to e-mail immediately!]] But this cannot really depend on whether it brings a mandate or not, but it must be tried to ensure that as many people as possible can make use of their basic democratic right. Therefore, we will stand for the choice of letters, with everything we can. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Sure! No problem at all!]] We'll see! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: If you can see, you will see!]] ==References== In June we will have voted on the letter election, and then I will see Mr Gusenbauer whether you agree to the introduction of the letter-election right or not. It is also interesting that this deadline debate was first discussed by the Investigation Committee. Please: We do not have the choice of letters, but we have a committee of inquiry, a good committee of inquiry, he works well. No one talked about it. They all talked about the democratic package. That is, of course, the important question. It is also interesting that the Social Democracy has called for a debate on a deadline request on the Rules of Procedure, but not on a second motion for a deadline! This is the time-limit for animal welfare. And here, I think, this time the leadership of the Social Democracy has acted wisely. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I understand: poor "Grolli"!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Totally depleted!]] When I look at what's in the newspapers, what's in "NEWS" saying that the so-called First Dog "Grolli", which has become famous in this Republic, for months alone in a farm in the south of Burgenland, has had to go without a reference person – an eye is bleeding, he probably has flea, and a foreign person brings him once on the day Frolic or dry food or as that means everything – I have to say: Whoever preaches water and drinks wine is unbelievable! [[Abg. Silhavy: Congratulations on your "level"!]] Whoever demands animal protection and treats a dog like this – no, that's not right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I grew up with animals, I'm for animal protection. I'm in favour of protecting the pets better. But this is done by keeping the animals better – and not by making deadlines. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Was that an offer now? Take the "Grolli"?]] That's the difference. One makes applications, which they know will not be accepted – and the others act. We believe that it is better to treat animals well than to make requests for deadlines.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14622	Under the Rules of Procedure, a group cannot hold two debates on requests for deadlines at one meeting. The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14646	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the theses of the spanner of the Constitutional Arch, the clubman Khol – most of which he could not have meant seriously what he said – back to the downfalls of practice. Get away, Mr Klubobmann Khol, from your theses to the omissions and actions of you here in Parliament! If you believe that with a little Latin, a little Italian and a little English you can bet about reality, then you are mistaken. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where democracy actually develops, I will now give you some examples: Today, for example, Mrs Baumgartner complains in connection with the ORF Disput that the SPÖ is not supposed to be ready for appointment. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, who has not been willing since April 2000 to agree to an appointment for a meeting of the Subcommittee on Animal Health? Who, then, prevents week by week, month by month, even a year of this appointment? Isn't it the same woman Dr. Baumgartner with the help of Klubobmann Khol? Mein Ladies and gentlemen! You call for meetings where it suits you, and you block meetings where you do not fit, namely on the subject of animal welfare, where they are more urgent than ever. And you want to further develop democracy? Mr. Klubobmann Khol! How does it look at government level? In the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vice-Chancellor introduced a law on the promotion of sports, without any consideration, without contacting those concerned. Getting Now They say: This is legally permissible. Only, ladies and gentlemen, is it legitimate for the President of the Committee Grollitsch of the FPÖ to praise this draft in terms of content, despite the fact that members of the opposition have not seen this draft at all? [[Call the SPÖ: "Grolli!"]] Is it legitimate for the government groups to receive the documents, but not the opposition? And it is significant that Mrs. Vice-Chancellor meant: Yeah, what do you want, that's known for a long time that I'm coming with it. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a further development of democracy that the government fractions receive documents, but the opposition does not? Do you know what Mrs. Vice chancellor said here today? – The policy of the matter lies in the way of party politics. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly self-evident! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To do Klubobmann Khol another favor: Let us talk about the Committee of Inquiry. The Presidency was chaired by the Head of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. It is, of course, not a political democracy without a government politician presiding over a control area. Of course, all concerns were wiped away. We have always been told in shams of how he is imagining democracy in particular. We all remember these words. He has explained to us how he is imagining democracy. And now as Minister? Ladies and gentlemen! Now he's shown his true face. He's exposed as a very brutal power politician. Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Brutal power politician"?]] But it's even better: Who followed after that in the investigation committee? An opposition politician? Somebody from the SPÖ? Someone from the greens? No, ladies and gentlemen, the campaigner Partik-Pablé is the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. You have to imagine that! What's going on? Do you do there? It will hold the presidency, suing, commenting, judging, condemning. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Inquisition!]] – Inquisition in pure culture, ladies and gentlemen! The only positive thing is that the caricatureists in Austria currently have a high level of economic activity. But that is always a bad sign for democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also a lot of political substance in Cabarets. But this too is usually a forerunner of dark times. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You ask for approval of your plans as regards the takeover of power in the ORF as regards the appearance of democracy with your application, and at the same time you deny the opposition the right to set up an investigation committee, a completely elementary right. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We have a committee of inquiry!]] And I would draw your attention, Mr Klubobmann Khol, to everyone's understanding that control in a state should not take care of the powerful themselves, but the opposition. They demand the choice of letters. This is quite controversial, there is still a lot to discuss: personal right to vote, secret right to vote and much more. And not even criminal provisions are in the draft, ladies and gentlemen! Where is the Minister of Justice? Let me also say this: This was a democratically-political piece, which you listed here, that you sent party-independent Minister Michalek to the desert and placed the party attorney of the FPÖ on the government bank. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of all of this, should the SPÖ have confidence in sensitive legal issues to be clarified in connection with electoral rights? Ladies and gentlemen! There can be no consent to your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14777	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14798	Mr President. High house! A small supplement to my clubman Dr. Khol on the matter of "Grolli". It should be mentioned in the middle of the good order: If climate already makes the "Grolli" grow up in Limbach alone, at least the black village governor has been obliged to care for "Grolli". This is coalitional harmony, as was the case once, in the example of a poor dog. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Free of charge!]] - And that's what he does for free. No, the truth needs to be done enough, our local leader makes it free: out of pure love for this animal. But it's up to you. The previous speaker said once in Bausch and Bogen on the issue of "Electing Letters": That's nothing, it doesn't fit, it won't. I do not know what contacts my colleague Kostelka and also colleague have herbs with the basic functionaries in the SPÖ. Wherever I talked to officials, party officers, mayors, vice-presidents at the base, for example in Burgenland, for example, with the new head of state of the SPÖ, when he was still mayor, it has always been exactly the same as we said in the ÖVP: We need the choice of letters because it is that instrument that guarantees that all Austrians, all eligible citizens can exercise their right to vote on the election day if they are not at home. [[Abg. Bures: How were the elections in Burgenland?]] And we believe that this letter-selection proposal is exactly what we're going to hit in this notch. I assume that you no longer have your ear up there in Vienna where the base argues. [[Abg. Bures: The results of the elections in Burgenland speak another language!]] I am convinced that, for example, when the colleagues from the Burgenland spoke about this issue, they would support me in my argument. In fact, it's like this: Seniors who are doing well travel on Sundays. These trips were planned weeks and months before. They cannot vote, either in national elections or in federal elections, or in country elections, let alone in municipal elections. And entrepreneurs, for example, who are at fairs abroad – no, they have no right to vote on these days. And, for example, what about people who are in the hospital? Of course, if they are in Vienna in the AKH, they cannot exercise their right as a municipal citizen in a municipal council election. And, of course, it is not possible for private people to travel on vacation, somewhere in the wide world – and we allow them to do well – to exercise their right to vote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] With the argument that this is democracy, a Kostelka demasks itself, demasking itself a SPÖ, for that is anything but seem democratic. That's basic democratic! That is what the citizen wants from us, and that is the right to vote, as we also want to give it to the citizen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] So we want to argue three positions in the right to vote in letter. We will join you in the talks, and we are confident that those representing the basic functionaries will vote in our direction. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You shouldn't be fooled!]] We want no Austrian, no Austrian – whether in the event of a federal election, a national election or a municipal council election – to miss her or his right to vote on the grounds that we do not have a right to receive a letter. Second, we want the Austrian electoral right, which is a relatively complicated one, to be absent, and thirdly, we want the election results to be declared final on the election day. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Of course! First you want to dim and then let it confirm!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Yes, if you have read the draft, Mr Gusenbauer, you will also see with what reasonable, comprehensible steps the foreign Austrians can be taken in this direction by the community, just like all domestics. It is a good way to start discussions with this compendium. I don't understand why you're defending yourself. By the way, during the negotiations, when it came to whether the SPÖ was once again entering a large coalition with the ÖVP, then in 1999 and in January 2000, you had nothing more to agree to the election of the letter. As Klubobmann Khol said, it was just about this one mandate. Now that ÖVP and FPÖ are bringing this proposal together, I am confident that we are going the right way to allow all citizens of this country, all Austrians, also foreign Austrians, the right to vote in writing and thus the right to vote in all elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14921	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14942	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This request, supported by us, essentially focuses on the introduction of the choice of letters. The ÖVP colleagues have already discussed this in detail. It is about more direct democracy by making it clear that popular desires, if they receive the approval of more than 15 percent of those entitled to vote, must necessarily lead to a referendum. But it is also to be debated within the framework of this proposal on more rights for the public prosecutor's office in relation to the legislative initiative. Furthermore, petitions and citizens' initiatives are no longer to expire at the end of a legislative period. At the time of the appointment of Supreme Judges, it should finally move a little towards real objectivity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Silhavy: Just like you yourself in a committee...!]] The SPÖ speakers discussed the issue of "more democracy" over and over again in their debates and also at the item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, with this deadline, we want you to apply until 30. June give the opportunity to prove that you want more democracy. The fact that we are assessing it in such a way that it is not appropriate for you to give your consent to this deadline and also to the issues in this motion only if the Rules of Procedure are amended is clear, ladies and gentlemen. You have adopted these Rules of Procedure against the votes of our Liberals here in the National Council not too long ago. These Rules of Procedure were right for you at the time, which is why they must also be right for you today. We will decide today on the deadline for this democratic package, and the SPÖ will then come up to 30. June must declare: that it is against improving the right to vote, that it is against more direct democracy, that it is opposed to more rights for the People's Procuratorate, to improved treatment of petitions and citizens' initiatives, and also to an objective in the appointment of Supreme Judges.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14978	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e14999	Mr President. High house! It has been said that in the Constitutional Committee there is the use to assign the various materials to certain baskets of subcommittees. This may be the case with government proposals. For opposition proposals – and I am speaking with greater experience than the Members of the Socialist Group – you are usually only prepared for a different basket. Nevertheless, it should be possible to participate in and cooperate constructively on government requests, so as to improve them. However, a little lack of faith in the seriousness of concern. I have a little the impression that you are so sure that this will not happen because of the internal political constellation – the low affection the former government partners feel for each other. I'll make a proposal to you, Dr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please!]] If you are serious about the increase in direct democracy and the appreciation of popular desires, which have been very successful and have overcome the slender of 500 000 votes, I am ad hoc with three people who have long been waiting for a positive performance. They have all taken this obstacle, and from my point of view, there is no objection to having them vote in national elections. As part of an application, we will give you the opportunity to vote on whether you want to know the women's people's desire, the animal welfare people's desire – including "Grolli" – and the genetic engineering people's desire as you see it in the future as a general rule. If we can achieve this, then we will also get into the other debate at the same time. So give yourself a back – hic rhodus, hic salta – and agree to a referendum on these three successful popular desires! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other fronts of the EDP on electoral reform, I am seeking clarification from the EIA. I have these days, by letter of 23. Januaryen, an already quite extensive set of opinions will be given to the Committee on Electoral Rights and on the concern of the EIAs to maintain a possible influence on electoral struggles and election results by publishing opinion polls. For those who have already forgotten this – politics is something short-lived – I remember that at the time was this very serious intention of the ÖVP: If we don't become number two, we're going to opposition! . We know that this promise, the commitment of the ÖVP in the media has been widely reported and that this has, of course, also focused attention on the opinion polls. The result is known: The ÖVP became number three and is in the government. Then she faced us with the approach: In the future, however, it should not be possible to publish such surveys, which may be harmful. – You make this a committee of inquiry, and this, if it leads to the conclusion that the National Council electoral system has to be changed, will naturally have legal consequences. Now I'm asking you what you want. Do you want the quick shot again – like the ORF – before we wait for this opinion and make the Enquete Commission, almost an survey ad pumpam velat ostentationem? Or do we really want to talk seriously about the expert opinions? – A little clarity, please, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15043	No one has spoken in this short debate. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 98/A by Mr Khol, Mr Ing. ==References====External links== June of this year. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the deadline proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is decided by a majority. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15081	The next item is the short debate on the request from Mr Öllinger, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, for reporting on Amendment No 16/A, to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. ==References== The vote will be taken after the end of the debate. I go into the debate, give the floor to Mr Oellinger and point out that his speaking time is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15105	Mr President. High house! After you, Mr President, you have already reached the deadline until the 1st century. I would like to come back to that on March. As you may know, the letter from the European Commission to the Republic of Austria, addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in December 2000, is a relatively laborious process of the debate with the Republic on compliance with EU treaties in a crucial phase. In the letter, the Commission informs the Republic that it will end within a period of two months, which is why our deadline will also end with 1. ==References====External links== March and the end of February respectively to take decisive steps to ensure that Austria fulfils the contract obligations in respect of passive electoral rights in the case of workers' chamber and works council elections for EU, EEA and associated citizens. These discussions between Austria and the European Commission date back to 1997. A first letter – Austria explains: Yeah, we're gonna do something anyway. It was followed by a second letter – Austria explains: We would have done something anyway, but we didn't agree on how to do it. A third letter followed – Austria explains: Yeah, we haven't moved on yet. ==References====External links== January 2000 – this is now more than a year old – to the Republic. This letter was answered by the Federal Chancellor in February 2000, on 15 February 2000. February. It is interesting what the new Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel said: A draft of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs responsible for legal preparation will be transmitted as regards the proposed amendment of the Chamber of Labour and the Constitution of Labour. Well, I would say: a smooth half-truth, ladies and gentlemen, with whom it was answered! Of course, there was this draft of the Social Ministry. But, as Mr Feurstein certainly knows, the draft had already been decided on at that time. In fact, there was already a decision in the Parliament in 1998, which rejected the draft of the Ministry of Social Affairs again, on the insistence of the Federal Government's ministers of the ÖVP, especially one of the then Minister for the ÖVP, of Mr Fassleven. He did not want Austria to take into account the requirements of the European Treaties – but, ladies and gentlemen, not only European and European Union requirements, but also democratic self-understanding. A democratic self-understanding of this Republic would not be allowed – we discussed this on the occasion of a debate a few months ago; Mr Graf is not visible right now – and it would certainly be a matter of course that those who are employed here and who work here can exercise their right to vote in elections related to their work, including a passive, that is, a candidate himself. So in 2000, the Federal Chancellor sends a letter stating that there is already a draft. He does not write that this draft dates back to 1998 and has long been voted down by the ÖVP – by the ÖVP, which he himself represents. Well, what is this, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party? Is that the truth, is it in this way? Faith Are you sure you can sell the European Commission for stupid? That you can write to her: Yes, it is already working on the subject – although it has long been clear that no one wants to have the passive right to vote by these two parties? Then he writes: However, it must be stressed that no political agreement has been reached on a change in these laws so far. – It is particularly amusing and interesting, he writes that the further process of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs cannot yet be estimated with regard to the re-education of the Federal Government. That was mid February – there you can estimate everything! There was already the coalition agreement, and it was not there that the Austrian Federal Government would take this into account. It was not, however, in that it will not take this into account. However, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have signed a Preamble which you would actually undertake to do so. Final and soothing sentence: However, the Republic of Austria will keep the European Commission informed of further developments. . Well, since nothing had happened, you obviously could not keep the European Commission up-to-date either. We continue to maintain that these two parties have no interest in establishing a democratic right for migrant workers here in our country. I would like to introduce you to an interesting development in the municipality of Vienna. The "Kurier" of today can be found in the following: Red-black approach to integration policy. You know what the situation was like: The Austrian People's Party always wanted – even for obvious reasons, but nevertheless in principle just as much as we demand – the opening of municipal buildings for foreigners, but never wanted a municipal right for foreigners. The Social Democratic Party wanted this municipal right, but not the opening of the municipal buildings, also for obvious reasons, but nevertheless less incorrect. It is hard to believe – especially here inside – that hardly anyone from the government parties should understand this – but the two parties obviously agree that in Vienna both should be possible, municipal right and the opening of the municipal buildings, very close. It's also interesting what Mr. Göerg says about this: The VP has no problem with implementing such a regime, namely the municipal right to vote, in the same way as other EU countries. Mr Göerg obviously speaks only for the Vienna ÖVP. The Federal ÖVP has a great problem and great resistance to implement the regulation of passive electoral rights in the election of the workers' chamber, as well as in all other chamber elections, even in the high school elections, although the same tone would be required at least to the same extent. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that there is a deadline for the end of February. Then the European Commission will go to the European Court of Justice, as it is now. It is already as firm as the Amen in prayer, which will be the result, even though Mr Khol is still presenting a legal opinion from 1994 – which he dares not to show himself anyway – by saying that the Chambers have sovereign duties and therefore do not have to grant the passive right to vote. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's it!]] Mr Khol! Even if this view is wrong – it is judicated, even in the example of Luxembourg – you do not solve any problem that you must in all cases make this equation in the works council elections, even if you – falsely! – for the chambers claim these sovereign activities. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't!]] But They prefer to be brought before the Kadi by the European Commission, before the European Court of Justice and condemned in a matter which is more than embarrassing by human rights, especially for this Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15176	The speaking time is now 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15201	Mr President. High house! Let me begin by saying that the Socialist Group will agree to this deadline proposal. The subject is urgent, it has been pushing for many years. I recall that it was the former Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch, who had already made an application in the Council of Ministers, with which the right to vote should be regulated in the field of the Chamber of Workers' Elections, and that it was the People's Party that did not allow it at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'm still proud of it today!]] I think, Mr Khol, there is little reason to be proud when the answer comes from Europe – especially for one who always says he is a European – and clearly gives us the task of meeting this democratic demand. But there are great differences at this speed, at the speed of reform, which the new government constellation shows. There are thematic areas, there is a terrible hurry, there it really is quite, very fast. If, for example, I take high school – that's also in this request inside, and there's another request from us this evening about the passive right to vote in high school elections –: It's going back in the nineties. At the beginning of the 1990s there were the first decisions of the Austrian high school, mostly unanimous decisions of all political groups, i.e. those of the ÖVP, including those assigned to the liberals, all political groups in the high school elections, to introduce the passive right of election for all students. Ten years passed, eleven years passed. A new government constellation is coming, which is particularly fast with the reforms – and again nothing with these proposals of high school! Mr Graf! When I think about the speed with which the wish of the high school was fulfilled to introduce the "e-voting"! You had not yet dealt with that in the relevant bodies, but it meant only the ÖH chairman in a conversation at the ministry that they would like that – and already it was in the law. I am not saying anything negative about this 'e-voting', even if it is properly secured by constitutional law, but it went quickly at once. On the other hand, when it comes to co-determination, it is very slow, because participation and expansion of democracy are obviously not a concern which this new government intends to represent, but the opposite is the case. Don't build co-determination, but stop your foreign exchange. That's why you don't have a pace here. But also in other areas you have absolutely no hurry. Today we read that the road pricing for trucks will also be postponed again. After two years of reflection, after Minister Farnleitner had already decided on this, one says again: Let us now look at whether electronic systems would not be in question. – Nothing against electronic systems, but you have been preventing trucks from paying for the damage they cause for years. That's the accusation we're making you. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But there's no hurry, there's only a delay policy from one month to the other, from one year to the other. With regard to the high school elections, I remind the liberals of Professor Brauneder, who very much represented this, and I also recall Mr Lukesch, whom we have repeatedly negotiated with. They have meant that we can think very well about it, and we will see if we can't implement it according to certain experiences with the voters in the EEA area. Now it would be that far. Now the High School Law is back to decision-making, to innovation – and it is not that far again. On the contrary, I think that should be said to the students: I do not expect that this government constellation will ever increase co-determination rights in the high school elections. You have in your constellation the potential for conflict, that the liberals do not want any legal interests at all, and they have not yet made it so far that you also agree to their abolition. That's why we're setting deadlines. Admit yourself here to democracy, confess to the fact that those whose concerns are to be dealt with in bodies may also vote! That's our call for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15251	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15273	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The coincidences of the business and agenda allow us to have two short debates in a row on the right to vote. In the preceding, limited by us now, it is simply and simply about finally creating the possibility that hundreds of thousands of Austrians can exercise their right to vote at home or abroad, those who are sick at home. – There was no need to act as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Oillinger: The difference is: The Austrians can choose domestically and abroad! They're allowed to vote twice!]] Today, Mr Oellinger is concerned with introducing the passive right to vote for people who are not covered by the Treaties of European law. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true! You have no idea!]] EU citizens and EEA citizens have the right to be elected in Austria, and you have kept this to us. There is therefore no need for the deadline provided by you, for the following reasons: First of all, we heard this morning: Don't hide in legislation, don't go over it, we're against deadlines. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, I give you the right to do so. There is no need for treatment until 1. March to be limited. Secondly, They justify it with a fundamental legal problem. Ladies and gentlemen! To vote and above all to be elected is a citizen's right. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: They mix the concerns. On the one hand, there is talk of the high schooling, although this is now the result of an application from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. It is spoken of by the Works Council's right to vote. We have always said that we are very interested in a constructive discussion with regard to works councils. It was the social-democratic trade unionists who over the past few years have repeatedly asked from behind whether they would reject it anyway, so that they would have no difficulties in the enterprises. And you continue to mix it with the passive right to vote in the Chamber of Workers. There is no need for a time limit here, because a electoral challenge is under way by your group. Obviously you fear the result at the Austrian highest courts, and therefore you want to turn it off with a Husch-Fusch-Law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also appeal a little to the memory of my previous speaker. In 1998, the Workers' Chamber Act, which refused the passive right of election for non-Austrians, was passed by the votes of ÖVP and SPÖ in this House. In this context, please do not forget that Council of Ministers decisions are taken unanimously. I therefore do not see why the Socialist Group, in the face of the same legal situation, today has a completely different position and wants to spend it within a month. And last but not least, there have been membership surveys in the Chambers of Workers about five years ago, and the members have decided by overwhelming majority to continue the existence of the public-law bodies based on compulsory membership of the workers' chambers. Don't throw that easily overboard! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15348	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Same time of speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15370	Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the speeches by Mr Oellinger and Mr Niederweiser, I thought that the wish is the father of the thought, as they obviously accept it or hope that the European Court of Justice will decide in its sense. Actually, it is – you know that very well! – that this is the interpretation of an article in the EU Treaty. The EU has not recorded at all that there is something like a forced membership of a body, because that is really something unique throughout Europe. She probably believed it was the ÖGB, where it was not allowed to vote. But a forced membership was so far outside the scope of EU experts' thinking that one has just come to a wrong decision. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Niederweiser has just said that the liberals do not want compulsory membership. Of course we don't want to! You know very well that we have been saying for a long time that if you want to be a member of an interest agency, this should be done voluntarily, but should never be based on compulsion, as is usual in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that we have even been able to discuss this whole issue is that we owe to the former Minister for Social Affairs Hostasch because, without any agreement, it has shared the opinion expressed in a letter from the European Commission and has said that it is also her opinion. Her purely subjective political point of view, Mrs Hostasch, has, in some way, expressed the Austrian Parliament's view. [[Abg. Silhavy: That can't be true! That can't be your level, Mrs. Partik-Pablé!]] Mrs. Silhavy! It's not that this should not be true, it's just true. Convince yourself! In your group, talk to the people who know each other and they will confirm what I am saying. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as fundamental rights issues are concerned, my previous speaker has already pointed out that the right to vote is a citizenship right. It must be free for any state to grant its citizens special rights and also to define the status of citizens of foreign origin and to make different differences. This right, of course, also applies to Austria and has no right to vote for the Chamber of Workers' Elections and no right to vote in a certain part for the High School elections. This question of principle, which rights are granted, cannot be made dependent on the contribution payments, as has been done in this case, because the workers' chamber contributions benefit the individual members. There are training courses, there are loans, there are actions – all things in which the workers' chamber members also enjoy their contributions. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should confess that Austria has different rights for Austrian citizens. Actually, I would assume that greens and social democrats are also tending in this direction, but I am unfortunately always surprised by the opposite of God. This also applies to the Austrian high school elections. It is really a concern of Austrian politicians to shape the Austrian universities according to their criteria, in the way it is imagined by Austrian society. Foreign students are guests, gladly seen guests, and they also enjoy the right to study in Austria. 13 percent of all students are from abroad. That means that in Austria we have a very good offer to foreign students. Half of these foreign students are EU citizens and thus have the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen! If we do remove compulsory membership, we will save ourselves the whole problem, and we will also save the individual – now forced – members to pay contributions for an organization that they do not want to belong to. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Let's create voluntary, free clubs! [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Then anyone who wants to be represented there can pay contributions and also take part in the club event.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15443	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15465	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tancsits! No one is against it – even you and the colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats do not! – to become smarter. In order to be able to become smarter, and that in a reasonable time, we have today put forward the deadline request. You yourself, Mr Tancsits, have told us that the Socialist Group has also become smarter. But she has – what does that always call her? – in the constraints of the coalition must act differently with the ÖVP than it actually does today, so to speak, reasonablely. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we have tabled the proposal. What sounds funny, but has a very serious background. I can tell you, as a member of the National Council, but also as a citizen, that I am really tired of making a policy in Austria knowingly and willingly, which is: What does the ECJ give us with a possible decision when God knows when we win time and terrain by then! – This is what the position of the government groups expresses, and I mean, above all, the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of the liberals, this would be an honorable motive, they would only have this motive. I don't want to miss out on the liberals right now. In their rejection of deep aversion to foreign labour in Austria, the liberals are marked by deep aversion to foreign students in Austria. That is the real reason why you will never agree to these legislations, as I appreciate you, and why, of course, you see no reason for a deadline for these Green Group requests, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Although Mrs. Partik-Pablé has tried to scratch a formal curve, she does not succeed in this xenophobic sense. Even they won't succeed, because even there she forgets the "little man." This has shown their example with the so-called forced membership. In fact, if it is true that membership in Austria can be called compulsory membership, for example in the Chamber of Workers or also in the high school, then it would be only in the ideological substructure of the liberals, that they should be used for these poor, enslaved, forced members who have to pay, so that they can at least get into functions so that they can at least choose. That doesn't fit all in the back and in the front, because what you don't want, these are foreigners in positions in Austria. That is it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: It's about your post! That's the mail chess you're running!]] But now I come back to the ÖVP, which I think is quite reasonable and reasonable. . I see that Mr Oellinger has certain doubts. But I have this faith, because otherwise the work here would sometimes not be fun at all, and I have already experienced, Karl Ollinger, who has confirmed this presumption that there are reasonable gifts and insight. But the question of the willing and knowingly risking a condemnation at the ECJ, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, you must explain this question to us plausibly first. Today, we have talked for hours about the image of Austria within the EU, but not only within the EU, but throughout the world, about how statemen, represented by the Federal Chancellor, represent this country, how flawlessly supposed everything is. There are no problems at all. It is only because Austria is the only country in the EU where there is no passive works council election right, but the Chancellor does not care about this. Federal Chancellor! Even if I felt deep sorrow over every day that this government is in office, I would like you to succeed in doing so: in fact and gradually – the setting of deadlines would be possible – to make Austria Europe mature in this respect, for you would have something, for example, foreign workers in Austria, and also the Terezija Stoisits.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15545	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats, because we are now voting on the request to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 16/A by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15582	I shall now proceed to the debate on the second part of the debate. Agenda item again. Mrs Petrovic has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15606	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The debate on the media and the ORF seems to be taking place over the whole day due to the intervening short debates, and this may not be so bad at all. We have now discussed a number of points relating to a reform of democracy, the democratic rules of the game in Austria, and quite a number of points of view. But I think how ever instruments of direct democracy will be designed in the future, how ever will the right to vote change, for a functioning democracy, the question of how current affairs, elections, scandals, internal political-burning issues are reported is important. It is also essential that the rules of this House should be applied or that the rules of play should give those responsible for the media in Austria the opportunity to make programmes, including those who are of different opinion, preferably the opposition, an opportunity to give an opinion. That is, these questions in dealing with media are really very significant. I have always found the demand that people who are known to be close to the political parties would generally have nothing to look for in the ORF. I think this is wrong because, of course, public broadcasting is also a reflection of democratic states in a country. That is why I think it is in principle correct if the different political interests in this public broadcasting can also be articulated. But articulating first means that not necessarily then decisions are to be made in this way, and second, it is said that the various interests, especially the interests of those who are not in power, must be heard. With the "KommAustria" you now create a regulation that is not only criticised by the opposition, but in which also renowned experts from science believe that the objectivity bid has been violated. There, an authority is set up which is mainly in the sphere of influence of the rulers by the right of appointment. I therefore believe that this has a retroactive effect on all the decisions taken in the field of this medium, and I also believe that it is one of the most important steps towards democracy policy. That is why the Greens reject this scheme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have always said that it was not necessary, because the Constitutional Court had withdrawn parts of provisional approvals. To this end, I have to ask the question: How, then, did such regulations come to be such as to have such a low degree of firmness? – Some government has also been responsible for this. I have the impression that the ÖVP was not completely inaccurate – but, okay, that's forgotten. But even if it is so that we say that there is now a need for action, I believe that at least the direction of the necessary actions should be aligned according to the recommendations of the experts. I have not met anyone at all at the level of the professionals who would not have said, for example, that integrated frequency planning is necessary. Now an opinion is being commissioned in this area, but you don't want to wait. That is, it's very similar to the electoral survey: We decide something, and then if the opinion looks different, then we will either ignore it or just create a piece of work and re-adapt it. This is also dangerous in such an important medium from the legalist course and is therefore strongly criticized by us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Petrovic! That has nothing to do with it! In the Private TV Act we are waiting for the frequency review!]] Why can you take out only one part and say, there you wait? In total, all these media need frequencies and allocations, and it is also about another nationwide radio. You can't agree that you're just leaving a niche or a rest, and everything else has to focus on it. That is exactly what it would have been to wait for this opinion now, to create a transitional arrangement from me and then to present the comprehensive media package that you, Dr. Khol, himself called for. Ladies and gentlemen! The comparison has also been made with the asylum Senate. First of all, I think that these materials are not comparable, because you know as well as we all know that reporting is a matter of daily topicality and of course political interests. That's not a question at all. That is, you and the editors know that pressure is being exerted. There will now be a Commission with a black president, a black Vice-President, from whom I hear he will come from the cabinet of a minister. The next question will be: What ear will be better in this body? – I fear it will be the right ear that hears better. We are already experiencing the prognostic effects: The hotter a debate is – I am now speaking only of the animal scandals that are now coming to the public thanks to God – the more undesirable the opposition is. There no longer even independent associations, which were particularly critical, are allowed to speak, but there one resorts to as good and adapted statements as possible, so that only the question of political responsibility does not arise. Let me tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: This genuinely party-political, power-political regime is In the short term, you may be able to keep some very unpleasant debates away from the ÖVP and move a little bit to the long-term bank; in the long term and in the medium term, But they are sure that this medium will become more uninteresting as a whole, because the population is not so easy to move in. One quickly realizes whether it is the critical, the hot topics, or whether one is more careful and only the powerful do not want to vote. I think you are doing a very bad service at a time of ever tougher competition, including the commercial viability and viability of the ORF, with its very important public service mission, supported by the Greens. I hope that this regulation – in this case, I hope – will not have too long an existence and that you will also get over the pressure of the market so far that you will allow a really free and independent broadcasting and a free and independent authority.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15658	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. The speaking time is gladly set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15679	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs Petrovic has recently said that the population has a sense of sensitivity in the assessment of who is behind the media, such as the media's political occupation, especially in the broadcasting sector. If this thesis is true, it looks like the ORF is red. Mr. Schieder! You will also know the survey in the population, which has made the very clear conclusion that the vast majority of the Austrian population have assumed that Austrian broadcasting is largely red. Not for nothing is the term "rotfunk" a winged word. [[Abg. Dispensers: I really do not know that, quite the contrary!]] - You don't know? – I know you well enough, Mr. Schieder, that I can place a mental reservation in your smile! – So much was said about the sensitivity of the population in the assessment of media and media independence. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the present draft law, the Media Commission should consist of a total of six members. These members are to be made independent and independent. Of these six members, ladies and gentlemen, four members are sent by the parties represented in the main committee of the National Council. Any party represented here may nominate at least one member. This means that, for example, the Greens can nominate a member of a total of six members of the Media Commission. I must ask you, Mrs Petrovic: How do you keep it at ORF, where of 35 curators is a green board member? Is that enough for you: one of 35? In one of six, do you say that this is too little that the government's influence is too strong? I now come to the "KommAustria", once again to the media commission, the members and the understanding of the Greens from the members in radio authorities and in a possible media commission, in the "KommAustria". Mrs Petrovic has told me in the Constitutional Committee that in my capacity as an attorney for private entrepreneurs in proceedings before the Private Broadcasting Authority regarding foundations, I have a different opinion from that of the liberal member, i.e. the member sent by FPÖ in the Regional Radio Authority. This is treacherous and significant in two ways. With regard to: First of all, it is probably the best proof that the FPÖ, unlike you, is able to send a truly independent member there, otherwise he would probably join my opinion. Secondly, it is also treacherous – Mr Brugger already laughs – when Mrs Petrovic is aware of my writings, which I did not bring as a politician, but only there as a lawyer. That's what I'm asking myself: Is this now a green run-off on requests from liberal lawyers who bring them into their capacity as lawyers in the civil profession? How do you keep it with the silence in the authority? Isn't there something like some kind of official secret? Or is it usual in the Green Club that press conferences will be held and that the Green Member will be informed immediately after the meetings of the Private Broadcasting Authority about how the mood was, what exactly has been said about how requests from lawyers who are close to the Freedom Party are being assessed? - That's your understanding of an authority, that's clear to me. If you see this direct connex between this reporting obligation – I say now – between the member you are sending there and you as an alternate clubwoman, then one becomes clear: As the bad guy thinks, he's like that. Then it becomes clear why you believe that we might bring about a similar constellation that might call into question independence. - I wanted to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap said quite correctly that the members of the Media Commission must be ordered on a proposal from the Federal Government. Only, of course, did he deliberately fail to read it on. I'm allowed to make up for this. It is, of course, in the proposal that of these six members – as I have already mentioned – four of the parties represented in the National Council must be nominated. Ladies and gentlemen! We need the KommAustria. We need it because it complies with the international standard of electronic media. I remember that the FCC, the Federal Communication Commission, has existed in the USA since 1934. I recall that there has been convergence in the media over the last few years, both in terms of content and communication. This has certainly not passed without a trace of you. We also need them because we need primary professional members for these tasks that are so necessary to regulate. At present, the Regional Radio Authority does not fulfil this requirement because there are no main professional members working there. We also need the authority to improve legal protection. If there is a first instance and a second instance in the form of the Federal Communications Senate and in addition the possibility of a Constitutional Court of Justice complaint, this is a clear improvement compared to the current system and to the current legal regime. But what we do not need is another standstill for which Mr Cap and Mrs Petrovic are responsible and for which they so vehemently stand. I should like to remind you once again that the SPÖ has been responsible for the media legislation in recent decades, that it is responsible for the fact that in Austria, as the last country in Europe, there is still no private TV law, that Albania is rightly excited to compare itself with Austria on this issue and to call Austria a "media-albania", that Albania demands a kind of declaration of honor and that the affected journalists are going to say that Austria is a "media-kongo" because there is still no private TV law. You're responsible for this. You are responsible for the fact that you have made a Murks three times in the field of private radio, that the private radio operators in Austria are still not in possession of final records, since they have been withdrawn twice. They are responsible for the fact that hundreds of millions of schilling have been put into the sand – frustrated investments, Stranded Investments is called that. They are also responsible for the fact that the only person who has been seriously dealing with media issues in this country over the past decades is the Constitutional Court, who has expressed the fact that he cannot intervene in the field of private TV law, because he is not there to substitute a complete brilliance of the legislator. It can only intervene in individual cases. – That should give you some thought. That's why I'm appealing to you: Give up your blockade policy! Throw away your working title "Metternich-Behörde" – this such ridiculous work title –! There's no way there'll be any more. "Meternich" is only a type of sect today. Why don't you throw him overboard? Step into reasonable negotiations! Perhaps in the coming weeks we can then come up with a broad, consensual solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15729	As the next speaker, Mr Arbitrator is speaking. The clock is set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15750	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Speed kills. Speed kills – quality in this case. This would have been a law, a project that had not only been negotiated for a long time, but also had been properly treated in the relevant bodies. This is a matter that screams after a subcommittee – after hearing, after the education of experts, after getting expert opinions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After many years!]] This can happen very quickly. We've been here in a two-day hearings. No, you were about to get that over the stage very quickly and not to address the real questions. In the case of a media authority, it would have been important to discuss a little about the scope of the authority's activity. It is clear that, according to your proposal, it should become an authority for Telekom and audiovisual media. The question would be: How far is it going to take in the Internet and the future link? – This would have been a highly interesting and probably legally relevant question. The question would have been to ask: How far can or can the ORF be represented in some areas if its partners and competitors in this landscape, the private individuals from Germany and also the public from Germany, who are represented via cables in Austria, are not included? In large countries, which are a market for themselves, where there is hardly any foreign influence, it is clear that these are not open questions with a media authority. In a small country where part of the media landscape is imported from abroad, it is very likely that it is right to regulate an Austrian part and leave the other part, especially the foreign part, irregular, whether it creates a wrong, a bad, an unfair competitive situation. - All of this would have heard advice in peace, but you didn't want it. Our concern is that you That's why you wanted to have such a quick and in this form, because you also want to gain an influence on the ORF and its reporting. They asked: How should this law go about the ORF? – This is designed as follows, Mr State Secretary: If a violation of the Broadcasting Act is to be advised, it now does the judicial authority, the Broadcasting Commission. In the future, it is the case that this will be transferred to this "KommAustria", i.e. that other areas of the § 31 Radio Law can also be consulted by the Authority, i.e. also questions of its own financial conduct, its economy, its economy, the compatibility of certain forms of programme, and issues relating to public procurement. All these questions, which are not currently going to the Commission or are not being discussed in it, may be decided by that authority in future. Even if the fee question – at the beginning there was the intention to include the fees – remains excluded, this authority has become an instrument to tackle the ORF in different areas. We don't want that! This would have also been said to you by experts in the discussions that this is contained in this paper and that it is wrong that it is contained, and that is why you didn't want to hear the experts in the committee! Thirdly, It would have been reasonable to consider this in conjunction with the other legal regulations, with the ORF law you intended, with the Private Radio Act. All these are existing facilities. These are legal operations on the living organism. This has an impact right away. That would have been a piece of advice and not a separate one. Fourthly, we were concerned that a question would not be addressed or that it would not be taken into account, namely the question of terrestrial digital television. They leave this open, although a mandate from Parliament to present a resolution to the government is to submit a report here. This report would have been a prerequisite for this law. They're not bringing him. They bring a law and probably then a report that then no longer has that meaning because it can no longer be incorporated into this form. Fifth and last: Our main concern is that the Commission is not independent that this proposal does not ensure that this "KommAustria" actually works as an independent non-interested authority. Here the order mode would have to be different. We have made proposals on this. There are proposals that there should be mainly judicial members. There are different proposals. All of this would have been discussed in peace, in order to create, when a media authority is created, one that is blessed for this country and does not harm businesses, but benefits them and also takes into account the idea that this will help to deal with the interconnectedness and the great new, technical challenges. You do the opposite: They use this opportunity to create further access to more influence on the ORF. That's a shame, that's politically harmful, and that's really not good for our country – as I have said today!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15788	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the early days of the debate, both Mr Schieder and Dr. Cap, they needed two formulations, which I can't stand, namely that the terms "simultaneously" and "striking" were always mentioned in connection with the ORF and the media situation in Austria. Cap's talking about a "equipment you're planning". I would like to reject this in all forms on behalf of the Federal Government. I would like to tell you that I have thought very well about my way of talking about politics and media issues in particular. Especially on such sensitive topics, I believe, one should consider the words very carefully and, above all, do not use burdened terms like these two – and that is where you did this on television at the best time. That is not the case and also the efforts of the Federal Government. I would like to reject this in every form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They always relate everything to the ORF. I have focused the discussion very consciously on the basics, i.e. on what is the basis for judging media policy in this country. I'm telling you, too. We have carried out very responsible media policy, in small steps, and we will continue to do so. We have decided on the television signal directive. We have decided on the television directive. We have passed the television exclusive right law. We have commissioned a frequency review for TV and radio. We fixed the Regional Radio Act. We make the private radio law, and there will be a "CommAustria". I would like to say: always in the appreciation of the work done by colleagues in the ORF, always in the appreciation of what the ORF means for this country. Now I have to say that I have always tried to have an objective discussion: not a political discussion, but a discussion of the matter concerning the law. If you accuse me that it would be party policy and not media policy, then I will tell you regarding order mode – apart from being a constitutional question –: The ITC in England is ordered by the government, the FCC by the President of the United States, the CSA in France of course by Parliament and the Government. All the modes known to us, how such an authority is ordered, run out according to the same scheme. We have tried to take this into account and bring it into the legislative process. Then you also have to say: It must, if so, apply the same right to all. The old Federal Government has decided on the Telekom Control and Telekom Control GesmbH and has ordered the responsible people there – who are still in office. Why that was good at the time and why it should be objectionable now, you must explain it to me first! Of course, the private broadcasting authority has also been decided by Parliament and the government. That is, the model exists, which also works in this direction. Only, I think, should be adapted to this system of today's times. You have mentioned this, Mr Arbitrator. They talked about the Internet and all these things. Of course we know all that. Of course, the gentlemen of the Constitutional Service know all of this. Believe me, we've been thinking about it for a long time, and it's been long enough time to discuss it. If you wanted to negotiate, you could have. It's been clear since October. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Not in Parliament! Not in committee!]] – I can tell you: The negotiator of the largest opposition party in this country has my phone number and my phone number, and I was reachable for him day and night. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll tell you: In the field of audiovisual media, there is something like fundamental changes: the exchangeability of transmission networks. In the meantime, it is clear to everyone that we can transmit content via any form, be it sound, word, image, data and so on. Secondly, The traditional demarcations between individual and mass communication and between broadcasting and telecommunications are blurring. We must meet these challenges. We cannot always say that we are putting forward an ORF discussion before we move in this country something in the telecommunications sector. If the SPÖ today refuses the constitutionally required two-thirds majority in the condition of the "CommAustria" – after all the word messages I have heard so far, I suspect it, and I have taken good care of it – then this attitude is very sad, I must confess that. Just because it is a matter of not giving the government success, and because one maintains an objectively unarguable junkimization with the ORF law, the opposition operates a game at the expense of the media entrepreneurs of this country and at the expense of the media consumers of that country. With the independent and non-wisdom "Comustria" we have put on the table a modern proposal corresponding to the EU and the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You know very well that by the recognition of the Constitutional Court of June last year, the Private Broadcasting Authority in the Regional Radio Act was recognized as unconstitutional. The basic idea of the "Comustria" is that regulation, in particular of the audiovisual media sector, should be made by a non-wisting, independent authority, on the grounds of its great democratic importance. The aim is to implement an independent institution responsible for regulation of both media and telecommunications, to counteract the rapidly growing risk of market abuse, to remove anachronistic division of permission in the radio sector, to eliminate licensing and frequency planning and to simplify administrative structures, and to improve the coordination of regulatory activity, which is becoming increasingly urgent in the area of the above-mentioned convergence – I call the principle of the one-stop-shop. To give you an example why I consider the establishment of the "KommAustria" necessary: The Commission's latest report on the determination of concentration, in short KEK, has just been published in Germany. KEK is the independent authority in Germany, which, as the name says, deals specifically with the issues of media concentration. The over 450-page report shows in an excellent and comprehensive way not only the multifaceted links of the media companies in Germany; it also focuses on the presentation of media concentration at European and international level. This is a highly up-to-date compendium, in which the current barriers of the media and telecommunications companies are analysed. Here, the complex issues of convergence, in particular digital television, are described in detail in the light of the national but also of the European and worldwide markets. Here it is said which threat to competition is to be feared by monopoly. Analyses such as these serve as a very essential basis for decision-making in media policy. However, in order to be able to carry out such a profound, complex study of matter, it requires highly specialized know-how and, above all, the necessary infrastructure for research. Finally, this research work must be objective, that is, separate from day-to-day policy. For this very purpose, the "KommAustria", as proposed by the Federal Government to Parliament for decision-making, would be predestined. We need such know-how in Austria, such a know-how carrier to deal with the problems we face. To illustrate: As the frequency situation in the broadcasting sector has so far been neglected, the Federal Government's opinion had to be given, for example, to a German company in the case of television, because none of the Austrian applicants were sufficiently qualified. But I believe that this cannot be the future for this country, especially in the media sector. I would ask you once again to consider your decisions carefully. Decide for the "KommAustria"! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15871	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15892	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it was presented in length and explains that the "Communications Commission Austria" is primarily not a requirement to regulate a modern media market, but that it is necessary to allow such a one for Austria at all. One of my previous speakers, Mr Krüger, has rightly shown the international development from which we have seen that in the free markets in most Western European countries and overseas, of course, regulatory authorities and commissions operate in one way or another. Let us not forget that in Austria – a small economy – we are dealing with a market of 88 million German-speaking people in the media sector, with which we are closely intertwined. If we do not quickly use the opportunity to intervene in market-regulatory, management, framework conditions, then others in this market of 88 million German speakers will do for us – the first reason why we have to act quickly and conclude this law. Ladies and gentlemen! The second reason lies in the so-called convergence of the various media. Personal computers and television are growing together. In two years we will be able to work with UMTS, radio and perhaps also TV with it. If the arrangements are not soon taken here to set the framework conditions, to regulate the market, then chaos exists – another reason why these decisions should be taken today. I would like to point out a third party, namely the ORF, which the opposition wishes to take out of the whole, how we have heard it over and over again in the deliberations, and how I know it from the OrF's bodies – I say it very consciously as a listener and seer representative. Ladies and gentlemen! Any scheme would only be inadequate. After all, the electronic media sector in Austria is characterized by the ORF. He has the fee monopoly, he has significantly more than 50 percent market shares in the TV sector, and he has, above all, the definition power over what is public-law. With all the commitment to independence: I am not satisfied that those who have definition power and have a fee monopoly also control themselves and say: This is or is not public-law! – I personally cannot imagine that the realization of this project – "Taxi orange" now rides on all ORF channels – in any way can fall under the concept of public-law broadcasting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore think it necessary to set up the "Communications Commission Austria", and I appeal once again to the opposition to allow for the creation of the non-wisdom-free authority with judicial intervention within the meaning of Article 133(4) of the Federal Constitution by your votes. This Commission is necessary and we want to give the opportunity to create an independent authority with judicial intervention. The matter is in your hand, you have to decide with a yes or no; "don't know" there is no in this case. I call on you to enable a non-responsible communication authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15949	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e15979	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Nürnberger, I will explain exactly what I am talking about. [[Abg. Nürnberger: For which party?]] It is important to me that we also keep things clearly apart in this area, and I regret that the Socialist Group and the Green Group have used talks, which have been so to speak, in the final phase, in order to perhaps reach a compromise, in order to make the whole thing fail. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria – which has already been said many times today – needs this independent regulatory authority. I not only look at this from the point of view of the diversity of the media, but I also see it from the point of view of access regulation, i.e. a little more from the telecommunications side and from the technical convergence possibilities that come to Austria, and perhaps less from the point of view of preventing power concentrations or cartel formations – although, of course, both are important. We have to deal with both. As not allowed, I felt that in the last talks about it, a "junktim" was always spoken of: Let us, as it were, make several laws in a package! The two have only very much to do with each other. There have also been laws in the past – I could really tell you a lot now – in which it was like this: First, the regulatory authority was created, and then it was done quickly to adapt the laws. First of all, it is important that this institution be set up, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are in the process of delaying all of this – and that will be to the detriment and damage of Austria. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I really regret this and wish I had a compromise in the last minute. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the subject of media convergence has already been addressed. This will progress rapidly over the next ten years. These little things – when UMTS comes, maybe a little bigger things; there will then be "interfaces" – will carry a lot. [[the speaker keeps a cell phone up]] You will not only be able to make conventional calls or send e-mails, but also surf them. But not only that: You will also be able to transport videos, messages, entire shipments with very high transmission rates. And this development will be very rapid. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this is not in the law!]] Yes, Mr Arbitrator: It is about bringing these competent authorities together quickly and quickly. But what has been said by your group over and over again, even by Mr Cap, is a bit strange: For example, the order process does not fit you. Three regulators have been set up in the past legislative period: the Telecom regulator, the rail regulator and also regulations in the field of air transport. All of this was established in accordance with the same order mechanism: The Government has appointed a Commission with more or less judicial intervention, and it has then decided on the cases. There was no cry from your side at that time; everything was right. Sure, because the minister who made the order was a red one. Then one caught a red one – and the thing was, so to speak, paletteti! That was your policy, and that, of course, made you very happy. But now, because another government is taking initiatives, because it's no longer the reds in this area, that's all bad in your opinion, is being painted by you a horrendous ghost on the wall, everything is quite terrible, and it will, so your statements, come to terrifying repressals. We have heard all these arguments, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, only: You just don't vote! They operate black and white painting or in the case of red and white painting, which in fact has nothing to do with the whole thing at all. I can only appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, to end this game and return to an objective policy so that, if it is not today, we can set up this "KommAustria" in just four or six weeks. It is in your hand that it is the really best solution for Austria in this sector. They have it in their hands whether the best solution comes – or whether we have to be satisfied with the second best solution. But I can tell you today that you will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16042	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16063	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up the media and telecommunications in an independent and non-committal regulatory authority and to take into account the new requirements of the market arising from rapid technological development, this is not something that the government wants to rush through coldly and quickly, perhaps out of pure need. This draft does not come as a surprise – as we have already heard several times today: Since September, the opposition has been aware of this and is, of course, invited to talk, almost skillfully asked for it. For the longer term, such a device is due. Germany, Switzerland, Great Britain and Italy have already made such arrangements. Even Tony Blair, with the media agency "Offcom", has taken a course related to our draft law. Only with your consent, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, can this independent and new media authority come. You know that – and take advantage of it. Without a two-thirds majority, there is a law "second choice" – and you obviously want this: the short-lived and dubious "advantage" for you to block our bill, dement its independence, demanding in the usual way a delay, further discussions and expert opinions, knowing that the time is missing, especially because the private radios also affected by the planned scheme – for the third time! – so to speak, hang in the air if there is no appropriate regulation. In the meantime, this method has been used: Imagine deaf, demanding conversations, and claim in the public that the opposite side is not ready to talk, you have never been asked to talk – and then explain that it is too late, and consider this government of authoritarian Hau-ruck practices, speak of an alternative that you would have, far better of course and much, much cheaper – we have specifically heard: 17 million – and then the government accuses them that they only want to gain influence by occupying posts with their people! No more words about the fact that all parties and countries will be represented in this Media Commission, no more material detail – nothing that could disturb this constructed enemy image! The foreseeable and intended result and its effect in the public: Unsure, no desire for consensus – quite the contrary! And above all: There is no longer talk about the contents of the draft law for "KommAustria". - Shame! Ladies and gentlemen! If there were to be a proposed two-thirds majority legislation today, there would be a new, efficient Austrian media authority very quickly – and through it, as an absolutely effective control body, the Federal Commission Senate, secured by detailed inconsistencies and restrictive means of collection, and bound by proposals by the Supreme Court, the Association of Austrian Judges and the Austrian Bar Association. And if that's still too little for you: There is still the Court of Auditors and Parliament. So it's probably not independent and far from the party. [[Abg. May. Prammer: As Parliament?]] – The representation of all of that. But it's probably easier to say it's a "political deal" in which it was only about the distribution of blue and black spheres of influence. And it is also easier to refuse any cooperation and co-responsibility through targeted refusal of communication, but in return, those who are very likely to try to brand a solution as "authoritarian". Once again: shame! The development and regulation of the exploding communications market is hampered by this, and new market development opportunities are delayed. Simple and cost-effective access of consumers would be possible through this law, efficient control and comprehensive measures against abuse of market power could be practised – but no: Rather, it is said that this government uses "meternich methods". This has nothing to do with objective argumentation, even with the fact that one acts "in the sense of the consumer". What you promise on your own seems to be party-political small or perhaps larger money. - Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16104	Next item is the report by Mrs Wachslander. Your speaking time is adjusted to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16125	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! 25 years of my professional life, I was a radio worker. At least 20 years of this were marked by total dependence on the monopoliste ORF. No chance to escape, at least at the electronic media level, the property. You can believe me: The majority of my colleagues, like me, have fanned about the liberalisation of radio and television. When the radio monopoly was abolished in 1995, it was only a palely hopeful one – based on the legistically patched launch – but it was an opportunity for an unconventional reporting, for new programming and broadcasting forms and the like. And so I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, about the opposition: How can you answer that your delay policy now again threatens the survival of at least 26 private radios?! – To you, Mr President, and to your colleagues as employee representatives: Are you aware that this would at the same time mean the loss of jobs? I cannot entirely acquit you of indebtedness because the recognition of the Constitutional Court concerning § 13 Regional Radio Act proves that the Private Broadcasting Authority was not installed by you. The government coalition, on the other hand, proves not only its competence in media legislation, but also its draft law on the establishment of the "KommAustria" but also the command of the hour to act quickly, because with regard to the integration of telecommunications, media and information technology into a multimedia world, its functionality would not be given without a new regulatory body. Your arguments – I'm so sorry! – are therefore not convincing for me. You obviously don't seem to worry when you play your power policy at the expense of media entrepreneurs, media users and – last, but not least! – operate at the expense of the country’s media staff. It could be noted here – and as far as I can do that – that the decades-long symbiosis of SPÖ and ORF should be kept and re-stimulated by you, so to speak, under monument protection. Perhaps you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, but also the continuation of the private radios are not so important to you, because you are, so to speak, drawing on the figures of the radio test for the second half of 2000 of the ORF and are satisfied with it and saying: The population, the consumers, the receptors are thus well cared for! It is a little difficult for me to accept these figures. I think it's a bit strange when ORF General Internant Weis says that you will seek the way to the Constitutional Court if – according to his words – the media authority "KommAustria" is decided in the constitutional rank. That's where I'm already asking the question: Does the ORF and its general intern feel that it says so, because of the law of the free market economy "delivered"? Considering that Ö 3 and Ö 1 are the only national radio stations, this is a monopoly again. With the "KommAustria" as an independent regulatory body, fair, equal to or functioning competition is given. This ensures cost-effective access, diversity of opinion and quality of broadcasting programmes, in order to mention only some of these absolute positives. However, the highest principle of the independence of the "KommAustria" is guaranteed by its constitutional security. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I appeal to you – both as a politician and as a former journalist – to give this draft of the law still consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16189	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16210	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft recommendation of the Council of Europe of 20 June 1989 December 2000 includes the independence and tasks of control authorities for the broadcasting sector. It is recommended that Member States establish transparent and independent control authorities, unless they already have them. Community law also provides for the establishment of an independent regulatory authority for the Telekom sector. A single independent authority is currently being set up in Switzerland instead of two separate Telecom and Broadcasting facilities. And also the British Social Democrats – the Social Democrats! – the agendas of TV, radio and the Internet will be brought under the umbrella of a single independent convergence authority. With the establishment of the "KommAustria", the government coalition also wants to create a single independent convergence authority in Austria. The regulatory tasks in the areas of telecoms and broadcasting have so far been carried out by a large number of authorities. This is no longer contemporary due to current developments. It is useful to transfer the regulatory tasks of a single independent regulatory authority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] According to the principle of the one-stop shop, the "KommAustria" is intended to lead to a transparent, modern and innovative simplification of administrative structures. The "KommAustria" is – we have heard it – independent, not bound to instructions and under the control of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! We read it today: In the Austrian print media landscape, the deal is perfect: "NEWS", "profile", "FORMAT", "trend" and eight more magazines under a single publishing roof! The end of pluralism in the Austrian magazine landscape goes hand in hand with the market power of "Kurier" and "Kronen Zeitung" and the domination of the ORF. And if I read today that the TV supplement of "Kurier" and "Krone" will be produced and edited in Germany in the future, then I can only agree with Andreas Unterberger, who spoke of a "medial mourning game" in this context already days ago. The more monopolistic the media, the more they become power instruments for political and business interests. I am thinking, for example, of the political career of a Silvio Berlusconi, who would certainly not have been possible without his media empire. I am also thinking of the business of a Rupert Murdoch, who in liberal Hong Kong orders his own media censorship because he is likely to have even better business with Beijing in mind. The concentration of media is unstoppable, we see it in Austria at the very moment. That is why the "KommAustria" as an independent regulatory authority under the control of Parliament is important. That is why the government coalition wants the Federal Communications Senate as an appeal body against the decisions of the "KommAustria"; we have already heard about the order process from Dr. Wolfmayr. Even from this point of view, the junk animation of the opposition – "KommAustria" yes, but only together with the ORF law – is not comprehensible. This is opposition for the sake of opposition; only well-being can view this as a delaying tactic. Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer has already quoted "Presse" editor Dr. Unterberger today, and I would like to finish this quote about the "KommAustria" a little bit. The "KommAustria" "should withdraw the existing control rights of the Chancellor's Office from the right of political direction and aggregate them under independent direction. However, the SPÖ refuses its (constitutional) consent: We'd rather let the country's media scene " rot even more than allow the government to succeed." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition and especially Mr. Dr. Cap! Hand at heart: Do you really need that?- Oh, my God! I'd be glad if you'd reconsider your attitude and say a clear yes to the KommAustria today.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16295	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. First of all, we must vote on the referral request submitted by Members Dr Petrovic and comrades to the draft law in 468 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of referring the subject back to the Constitutional Committee to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 468 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – I note that this draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority, so that no law decision of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] 3rd. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law on the Independent Federal Communications Senate (UBKS-G) (469 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16368	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Jarolim. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16395	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a question to the government parties. The proposal for a law concerning the Federal Communications Senate, which is now under negotiation, requires that the currently rejected application, which has not been found by the constitutional majority, be adopted. I therefore ask the question: Are we really going to have this discussion here? However, since you have not taken any further steps, I must ask you to show the size and withdraw this request, because I think it is relatively pointless to decide what the conditions are missing. I would also like to say that it is good that the proposal for a law, which was included in the previous item on the agenda, has not been decided and that it is unfortunately God's way that we need to note today that you, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, have undergone a significant change in your policy, a change that already alerts me a little. Today, we have also been able to establish – by the way, more and more recently – that you are trying to make a virtual world of coalition parties that you are trying to present to the public a problem that as such does not exist, by speaking, Mr. Khol, even of dates, of the rejection of dates that have never existed, that you are therefore trying to make the public clearly something preferable and then on this basis policy. I think that this is unworthy of democracy and should therefore call on you from this point of view to return to a case-by-case discourse, to a discourse that is based on the subject and not to choose a course of action, as we have known in the past only from the FPÖ, a procedure which is totally unacceptable for democratic policy reasons! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Again on the fundamental question: You have two alternatives, the one to get the constitutional majority, and the second to leave the solution as you have put it in view, namely directly to the Federal Chancellor. You have to say clearly: With all your refusal to talk, with all your inconsistencies, to find a solution to an authority that would actually have been independent, you will not expect us as the opposition party to agree – after you have pulled us through the cocoa so much in this unworthy discussion process, by your refusal of conversation, though then you would have invited us to agree. We would even take this increase into account here. But that we're going to drink the cocoa you wanted us through, you're not going to expect it from us! A few points on this, in my opinion, are unnecessary. I would have expected you to write in, what the conditions are, that there should be a professional practice among those people who should be a member of the Federal Communications Senate. No one knows why this is not in it. You seem to have thought of anything, but at least you don't communicate with us. They have been included in the procedural regulations – which is adventurous! – that an appeal against the decisions of the "KommAustria" does not give rise to a suspensive effect. – I think this is really adventurous and cannot understand what is behind it. In addition, I would also like to refer to the "argument" that the Bundesasylsenat would have been more or less a requirement, something that would have been used as a "substance" so to speak. It has already been said today: To compare the Bundesasylsenat and the "KommAustria" authorities is therefore completely absurd, because you have a party-political interest in using your power on the one hand. Personally, Mr President-in-Office Morak, because you have been trying so hard to ask for materiality today, I take it off at any time, but if you look at what is actually happening in the ORF – for example, you suddenly see the horrific appearance of Clubobmann Westenthaler in a television show where he is trying to censor into the broadcast – then you will hopefully understand that we cannot assume that only the formal version is decisive that it is crucial to enforce democracy and independence, but that it also depends on what is behind it. This appearance and the way in which you have conducted this discussion – we have seen that you are in fact concerned with the desire for power policy – and as you have been working in the government lately, we have shown that we cannot give our consent to it. Therefore, I am glad that the previous item on the agenda did not have the constitutional majority required. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16480	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16502	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! With the rejection of our "KommAustria" legal draft, you have only proved what we can find in many other areas of politics that you have taken a firm look at the past. And there you stay. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Just don't change anything at the status quo, that's your policy, nothing change at the status quo, you think you have comfortably furnished it there, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! And that's why all the liberalisation issues, especially the media, including the electronic media, are always on the brake – and you still stand there today! This has always been the case in media policy. The last major media policy policy position has actually taken place in the late 1960s, namely with the major broadcasting reform, ladies and gentlemen. It was then the government of Klaus – by the way, with the votes of the Freedom Party – that implemented the great radio popular desire of the independent press and created a remote ORF. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: We need that again!]] At the time, the ÖVP together with the votes of the liberals, the Socialists voted against it at the time, ladies and gentlemen. But it has not taken long, then the counter-reform Kreiskys has already been used by the radio and that media cannibalism, that ORF-cannibalism, that Gerd Bacher has always spoken about, namely, the party politicization of the bodies of the ORF, the party political acquisition of the ORF by the Social Democrats. This is the historical truth, ladies and gentlemen. This can be proved, and you still hold fast to these positions today. And the crocodile tears that you are pouring here about the alleged pressure of the government on the ORF, these crocodile tears are highly unbelievable! You have not in the past been concerned with the independence of the ORF. This has not changed until today. It is your sole concern to safeguard your political interests in the ORF! Tell me! Everything else is the untruth, but in reality it is only a reflection, a failure, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, people in the country know that too. They know this because the word from the Red Radio still has a relatively large support in the population today, and I think that in view of your current attitude, nothing will change this position either. But this federal government has taken action to overcome the previous stagnation in media policy. The convergence of the media in Austria and the creation of an independent media authority will, as in other European countries, become political reality in Austria. I am convinced that your resistance will not change, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, the opposition should be interested in the fact that there are independent control authorities in the media sector whose acting persons are not subject to the law of the government or the Federal Chancellery. But you have obviously never been concerned with a modern media policy or a modern media market order, but with party-political influence. That is why you always welcome the Radio Law and its reform with the media authority, ladies and gentlemen, because it is really about a party-political cow trade and you want to negotiate party and personal-political concessions and counter-businesses with a junkim between the ORF on the one hand and the media authority on the other. But this will not be allowed to happen, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the broadcasting of control must also take place in relation to its legal mandate. There is no question at all that of course "KommAustria" must also have the competence about the ORF. But, of course, the independence and independent legal status of the ORF and all its institutions remain. But, of course, the ORF cannot determine for itself what is its public-law mission, what one has to understand, and he cannot say either: Because of my definition, I also set the fee monopoly! – Ladies and gentlemen, that will not happen! This will require a legal basis, and there will also be a need for public and media control. Ladies and gentlemen! Even though the SPÖ has refused the two-thirds majority today, of course we will not let go of this issue, and we will do everything we can to bring about a corresponding media authority with a simple legal majority. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, I would like to make the following request: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Kukacka, Dr. Krüger and colleagues on the re-reference of the report and application of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law on the Independent Federal Communications Senate (UBKS-G) (469 of the Supplements) pursuant to § 73 para. 3 Z 2 GG The National Council wants to decide: The report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Federal Law on the Independent Federal Communications Senate (UBKS-G) (469 of the Supplements) will be submitted in accordance with § 73 para. Point 2 of the CSF referred again to the Constitutional Committee. This application has already been submitted and is also submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16576	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. First of all, Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades, as well as Mr Krüger, Mr Mag, have referred to the motion for a resolution. Kukacka and comrades to vote on the draft law concerning the independent Federal Communications Senate. Since both referrals have the content of referring the subject to the Constitutional Committee, I shall vote on them together. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of having the draft law referred back to the Constitutional Committee in 469 to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (401 of the Supplements): Federal Law on Private Radio Radio (Privatradiogesetz – PrR-G) (470 and 470 of the Supplements) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 345/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Regional Radio Act (RRG) (471 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 347/A by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a federal law with which the Regional Radio Act (RRG), BGBl. No. 506/1993, idF BGBl. No. I 51/2000, amended (472 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16652	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 6 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16681	Well, today we also have to deal with the issue of easing the participation thresholds for media entrepreneurs, the famous scheme with 26 percent first participation, 10 percent second and 10 percent third participation. I think that it was very useful when we decided to do that at the time, so that simply more radio operators, more radio operators, have the chance to do so. What is going to happen now is that there will be a concentration in this area. I do not think this is right, and therefore, I do not think it makes sense that this will ultimately be decided here. But the majority will decide on this, it will also redefine the broadcasting areas and, provided the frequency base is given, will also allow Austrian-wide private radio. However, after I have now justified why it is not wise to make this change and why we do not agree to it, I would like to address the statements made by my previous speaker to the previous item on the agenda. The whole thing is, so to speak, a wide range of media and media discussion, and I think it makes sense to say something about it. Mr State Secretary! Today, they have spoken again of refusal to talk. Of course we did not make any refusal to talk! There has only recently been a three-hour discussion or negotiation. We have only kept waiting for Mr. Klubobmann Khol's promise to be fulfilled, that the novelle will finally be brought into the broadcasting law and that the private television law is in place. The novelle is slowing down, and the private television law only goes when there is any frequency assessment, so you have to wait. This has nothing to do with Junktim, it has nothing to do with mail chess or anything else. This is your way of expressing yourself again and again, simply because you do not want there to be a broad, serious discussion about it, and because you obviously do not want the opposition – in this case the Social Democrats – to be involved in this debate. But, Mr Kukacka: Don't talk about the "red radio"! At the ORF Curatorium, the ÖVP currently has 18 curators – if we put this on the table now – it has an absolute majority in the ORF Curatorium! So don't talk about the "red radio"! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is your law! The law has happened to you because you have believed you always stick to the government!]] You know the situation in the state studios. If you are talking about privatization and the reform of the ORF, you should also talk a little bit about the national studios, for example, about the hearing law that the head of state has when the national intern is decided – and you should also look back and forth at the "land show". Here I – that was really interesting – once saw the "Nederösterreichische Landesrundschau" (Nederösterreichische Landesschau). The first contribution in this "Landesrundschau" was: The national management of the ÖVP-Niederösterreich presents the best player "55 Jahre ÖVP in Niederösterreich", a long contribution about this "Knüller" on the book market. Then came the second part: A mower is dreaming about the country. Then came the third contribution: Street ball, the new fashion in the Lower Austrian cities. Peppel, peppel, peppel, we're playing street ball! [[The speaker makes the gesture of ball impact.]] And on the edge of the street two enthusiastic spectators: the Lower Austrian councillor of the ÖVP and Mr. Landeshuptmann Pröll, who then commented: It's the new fashion! In the cities we play street ball! Peppel, peppel, peppel. And that's red radio? – I can only laugh at this definition! I can only laugh about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And you could continue this endlessly. If we really introduce private-sector criteria into the national studios, then you can completely abolish the speeches of the national leaders, because the intervention rates in the speeches of the national leaders are below the statistical threshold, because in reality no one can see such official statements. And that's what's going on with you, "Rot-Funk." [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is your law!]] If I look at the discussions in the ORF curatorium, how you're good, bad... As for the "Panorama" editorship, 600 pages have been made, by two institutes, of whether they report objectively at all. This was the initiative of the two curators Khol and Westenthal. And now, with regard to the "Taxi orange" format, we are already discussing whether this is in any way in line with the order of the public authority. – This can only be brought here by an unimaginable like Mr Tancsits, who did not see "Taxi orange" or "Big Brother" and therefore still did not understand that "Taxi orange" – which you can or can't do – was the public-law response to "Big Brother", and that is what I say here. But you also want to discuss this, you want to eventually integrate everything into your government loyalty perspective concept. This is your understanding of media policy. But don't come to us and don't tell me we're setting up some post-schaker considerations or anything like that! So a somewhat more honest discussion would bring us forward in this context than you have done so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16747	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16769	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In June 2000, it was necessary to replace the old Regional Radio Act with the new Private Radio Act. The Constitutional Court has recognised that the transfer of the task of awarding private broadcasting licences to a collegiate authority with judicial intervention is not permitted by constitutional law. Now, in the new Private Radio Act, the telemedicine law and the broadcasting agents are to be merged. In addition, in the Private Radio Act, we will loosen the restrictive restrictions on participation for media owners. As already mentioned, shareholders could participate in private radios at a maximum of 26 percent and in two more with 10 percent each per country. However, media owners can operate several channels or participate in several channels to more than 25 percent if their supply areas do not overlap. Of course, the simultaneous operation of a nationwide radio and a regional radio remains excluded. It is also new that for private radios program acquisitions from other channels of up to 60 percent are now allowed, while previously only 40 percent were allowed. Mr Cap! I really can't understand why you can't agree to this broadcast expansion. You have told us here that you will not agree, but you have not said why not. And so stay on all these points of discussion... – No, you didn’t say that, you just said we won’t agree to that. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I said that! The concentration process...!]] I beg you, a thousand flowers! Now the situation is that, for example, Ö 3 45 percent has hearing share, and the next private radio operator, namely the transmitter 88.6, has only 16 percent. So where do you see the blossoming of the thousand flowers? I can't see that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The contribution of the Social Democrats to the Private Radio Act was an initiative that wanted to raise § 13 in the constitutional rank. You, Mr Schieder, said: We made mistakes in the past. – Yes, you made mistakes, but you didn’t learn from these mistakes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oh, that's worse!]] They react with the Uraltreflex that simple legal regulations that the Constitutional Court has lifted are immediately brought into the constitutional rank. But we are not going to understand these architephrases, Mr Arbitrators. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I consider this procedure not only to be an undermining of the Constitutional Court and thus of legal certainty, but I consider it extremely worrying as a whole. [[Abg. Arbitrator: But the reverse, namely a constitutional law with a simple majority, that suits you, you do! These are double standards!]] Mr. Schieder! You're comparing apples to pears now. [[Abg. They are not apples and pears.]] Unfortunately, I have very little time to speak, but we will certainly discuss this in detail in the Committee, since a referral has been made back. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! They were never willing to participate in this reorganisation of the Elekron media landscape in Austria. For you, it was clear from the outset that the status quo should be preserved as much as possible. And you've never been involved in any of these matters either. Only a few days ago, Dr. Cap presented a two-page paper to the public. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Two pages, ten headlines with short text. – Dear Dr. Cap! We really deserved a better opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16886	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The clock is set to 7 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16921	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! So I think in politics one or woman is used to believing with time that you would have deserved anything for anything. We could just as well say that we have long felt that we deserved a more serious work and debate of this government. We take note that things are as they are. But one thing I would ask you to do, that is to say, a little bit of correctness in your procedure. If it is so now - and as we have said - that we do not have to evaluate this - that the "KommAustria" rule has not found the necessary majority, then we should also talk about what is going to be done with it in the committee. However, they do not agree to a referral back. It is particularly interesting: However, you agree to the referral regarding the Bundeskommunikationsssenat. So we're going to talk about this one issue, but I'm afraid we're going to be hard on the committee if we don't talk about everything. And to the address of my previous speaker: No, it is not the case that the court of the Constitutional Court judges us to make a regulation of this kind as you have presented it. On the contrary! I also see serious, serious constitutional concerns in this regulation, but you do not usually listen to it. I also take note of that. What the Constitutional Court or this knowledge suggests is the creation of an independent authority, which we are talking about today in a very different way almost all day long. I don't know why you're not doing what the Greens have been asking for, asking for, asking for, wanting, because I don't think that's a concern that's so strange to the government parties, or that's so against their power-political intentions that they can't approach it at all. We see ourselves as spokespersons on the concerns of free, non-commercial radios, because we believe that this sector covers very important, though partly small, needs and that it can be better addressed to local, regional, but also to the concerns of a special group, an ethnic group, a linguistic minority group. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: And who pays it?]] That's exactly the question: Who pays for it? We have seen an example from France, where there is a solution. We said, please, we are ready to talk about different solutions. Of course, you can talk about a distribution of advertising revenue. But you can also do something else, and that is our proposal, which is available in writing to you and on which you can vote. There is also an amendment which I expressly mention here, in which this question is also addressed, namely a financial security for free, non-commercial radios. I have added to the Committee, which is a proposal from the Greens. We would also like to talk about another financing model. But that's not what we heard from the government parties! That these free radios can survive so much of light, air and sun, so please, that is naïve! They are defined as not commercial, i.e. they see themselves committed to a cultural, an overarching objective, and I therefore think it is a public task to ensure the inventory and working possibilities of these radios. And it's our criticism that you haven't done that again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another concern that we have also stressed in our request seems to us to be particularly important. Especially in Austria and especially in times like this, it may be that we have differences of opinion, but then one should also pronounce them and not pretend to have presented the best of all regulations and the evil opposition is not ready to talk. I'm talking about concentration efforts. We know that there is a huge trend towards concentration in the field of electronic media, and we also know that in Austria, for a variety of reasons, which are not solely responsible for this coalition government, we already have an overstated, the world's highest concentration. If we now – especially with the provisional regulation – release any kind of concentration of power, no longer with clear legal provisions prevent us from developing very dominant, dominant positions in this area, then this will lead – and Mr Kukacka knows exactly what happens then – that these concentrations occur. That is why we have made the proposal by the Greens: no more than 30 out of 100 in Germany and no more than 40 percent in a federal country. In other words, media operators who already have such a market share are excluded from further radio participation.It may be that we have a difference of opinion. But I have not yet heard from you how your political ideas are. But behind this facade: Please, the others don't want to talk! You really can't retreat. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] There you have the request of the Greens black on white! We brought our ideas to paper. I think, as I said, that in the field of security of existence for free, non-commercial radios we could even have come to a common denominator, regret that this is not the case, and suggest late, but still, before: Let us really discuss the whole matter as a package in the committee, as Khol has suggested! Perhaps we could have gone a simpler way, but sometimes the ways of this coalition government are apparently complicated and laborious.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e16995	I declare that the amendment tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades, which has just been sufficiently explained in his key points, has also been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17136	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17157	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Chancellor! I will continue to resist the temptation to talk about the ORF law here, because I do not think it has anything to do with talking about a private radio law. What are we really talking about, except that we make this the subject of polemics? . We are talking about a law that introduces a one-stop shopping principle in this sensitive area, where there are very clear market dominants, so that broadcasting and distance marketing permits can be issued in one. We are talking about market share models, about a new market share model, namely the orientation of the number of people reached and the number of programs of a media association reached at a given location. We're talking about federal radios. This will be possible. Further frequencies and the necessary transparency will bring the radio frequency assessment recently commissioned. There will be a priority for the compaction of broadcasting areas. That means more people will be able to receive the program. In the future, media companies can participate 100 percent in radio operators, there are no more organisations that are mandatory and which have led to market distortions in the past, but also to an unsuccessful effort by the competent authority to control compliance with this scheme. The programmes will be extended. The acquisitions can account for up to 60 percent of the daily sending time. It is what one might call a strong liberalisation shift in this area. It will also be possible: the extension of the duration of event radio from two weeks to three months, the withdrawal of the obligation – I have already mentioned it – to the authority to work on an organiser community, the clarification of private foundations as a shareholder in radio operators and a higher share in the programme acquisition of others; I have already mentioned this. A number of practical experiences have also been incorporated into the new law, for example the increased legal certainty for radio-trafficking in the issue of the elimination of approval in the event of non-execution and the reorganisation of the review of the allocation of frequencies. I think we have adopted a liberal approach here. I think it is what we call positive discrimination. In this sense – in this case the decision-making process is already clear – I seek approval of this law. I think it's an essential law for the media location of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17209	The next item is the report by Mr Krüger. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17230	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr State Secretary! I come back to Mr Petrovic's argument that, in full recognition of the contents of the Constitutional Court's judgment, the Constitutional Court is calling for an independent, independent media authority in the constitutional order. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: "Constitutional rank" I didn't say!]] Mrs Petrovic! I don't think you've read this knowledge. I can tell you that I received this as a lawyer and a successful complainant in 26 times. I have read it once, also a second time, and therefore I know very well what is inside. The Constitutional Court says that the collegiate authority is unconstitutional in this case, because it has administrative agents to perform. However, administration is a matter which is ultimately subject to a Federal Ministry, and this Federal Ministry is subject to parliamentary control. But by installing this collegial authority with judicial intervention, this control is not possible. It follows that there are only two possibilities. One possibility is the establishment of an independent non-committal "CommAustralia", and the other possibility that the Constitutional Court sees as a completely equivalent, yes system- and constitutional, possibility to bear the ministerial responsibility is that it says that media matters are subject to a ministerial responsibility and then to decide on licence applications. As this is not about civil rights, this means that officials who are bound by the Federal Chancellor or the competent member of the council are required to do so; therefore, there is full parliamentary control. This is nothing but what the Constitutional Court says. We say, of course, that we prefer a non-cooperational authority. That is why we have proposed the "Comustria" and are very sad that you have not joined this proposal. Finally, you obviously do not want to allow us any other way than that, since we do not have the constitutional majority to set up a narrow-track "CommAustria" here by a simple majority, which is then, because it requires the Constitutional Court, binding. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the Private Radio Act: The latest media-wide analysis has shown the following – that has already been explained by Mr Cordula Frieser; I may summarize –: As an individual entrepreneur, the ORF has a market share of 80 percent in Austria. On the other hand, 20 percent are divided into around 50 market participants. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine this imbalance! On the one hand there is one with 80 percent, and on the other side there are 50 that have to divide the cake of 20 percent. I have a look behind the scenes, I know annual reports, annual accounts, profit and loss accounts and the like. It is, I believe, no secret, even if you say here and notice that there is hardly a private radio, if you look from the antenna Styria, from 88,6 and from one, two other radios, which is capable of writing black numbers. Now I can't say: The ORF is so virtuous, it is so good, and everyone else is so stupid, they are not able to do so. No, I can't say that because there must be something wrong in the regulatory mechanism. The need for correction in view of this dramatic development will probably not be disputed here. One of these corrections – and this has been said by Mr Cordula Frieser – is that these absurd restrictions on participation are removed. I know this from general meetings, because the restrictions on participation are that far too many different interests are represented and one cannot agree. On the track, the necessary investments are still needed to be able to compete effectively. I would therefore like to refer to the market concentration which Mrs Petrovic has referred to here. At the market concentration, that model should take place in which one and the same broadcasting operator should not reach the same audience twice – that is to say, he should get a national frequency, for example, if that is possible at all. The law provides for that. It should be possible if the frequency assessment results in such a way that it is not also a regional broadcasting operator throughout Germany. And the region should not at the same time be a local operator in its region. I think this is a very reasonable model to prevent too strong market concentrations. But I should like to say one thing, Mrs Petrovic, if you were to shed crocodile tears here on the issue of market concentration in the media sector. I have not heard any report from the Green Group, let alone the media politician Petrovic, when it came to the market concentration which was not yet legally approved by the antitrust court of the first instance in those days and what the Chamber of Labour said about it, in the magazine sector in Austria – and this is so worldwide – there is a 100 percent monopoly by the merger of companies that issue the title "FORMAT", "NEWS", "profile", "tv media", "e-media", "yachtrevue", "golfrevue" and other special interest magazines. I didn't hear a word about that. A 100 percent market position on – as antitrust law says – relevant sector of weekly news magazines! It is also about the interests of journalists who can no longer escape. And if you are right here – I would like to congratulate you on this – that you have to think about the market concentration in the media sector in Austria, if you are serious, then You probably lose clear words when it comes to much more than a few radios.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17270	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law in 470 of the Supplements. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for this sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of obeisance. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to it for a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 471 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 472 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is also the majority and thus adopted. 7. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 350/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Ing. Peter Westenthaler, Dr. Andreas Khol, Mag. Terezija Stoisitsand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for victims of National Socialism (475 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law on the establishment of a general compensation fund for victims of National Socialism and on restitution measures (Reimbursement Fund Act) as well as amending the General Social Insurance Act and the Victim Care Act (476 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17389	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gusenbauer spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17422	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is an important moment for the Austrian Parliament that we discuss and decide together today. It is just as obvious that we are doing this, as I consider it to be of course that the parliamentary opposition also appreciates the achievement of this agreement and its laws. [[General condolences.]] I would like to stress that I welcome it if we come to an Austrian consensus on this, because this is an extremely important issue for us. In this context, I would like to express my express thanks to all those involved in the negotiations, primarily Mr. Ambassador Dr. Sucharipa and Mr. Ambassador Dr. Winkler, who has acquired their merits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These laws continue the history of the work of our past, the Austrian past. It is very essential that, when these laws are passed, we also acknowledge our historical responsibility in one of the darkest chapters of human history. Although Austria's statehood was dissolved by the "connection" and not a few Austrians opposed to the Nazi-unlawful regime using their lives, many who participated in the robbery, terror and destruction campaigns of the Nazis as willing executioners, who were there as evil profiters or only as co-runners. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Austria – which is probably true – was a victim of Nazi imperialism by international law, but not all Austrians felt that way, and it was a further, painful and difficult way to these differentiated insights, which, moreover, were articulated for the first time by a Social Democratic Chancellor, namely Dr. Franz Vranitzky, before the Austrian and the international public. This introduced a paradigm change in the debate on the past and the evaluation of the events between 1938 and 1945. I would like to express my respect and recognition for Dr. Vrannitzky presented his statements in 1991 before the National Council and in 1993 in Israel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do this in particular because I believe that we are not doing all that we do now primarily to send a signal to the international public. I think we are doing this in the very first line for ourselves, because the image we are making of our past is certainly also our political presence. History images also have an effect and an impact for the interpretation of the present and for the design of the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, every year – especially on the anniversary of the victims of National Socialism – we primarily commemorate the victims. But we remember the victim not only because of the effect on the outside, but also for our own sake, because with this view of the past we are also looking to the future. The essential thing is that in this context we constantly reaffirm our basic values and also acknowledge that we want to stick to the democratic values of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One never needs to have heard about the "Third Reich" and its acts of violence in order to know that people must not be persecuted, that people must not be abused, that people should not be killed. However, we must even experience that people who have an enormous knowledge of the history of National Socialism can nevertheless be people who tend to be extremly violent and also to anti-human attitudes; that is, the knowledge of the past alone does not prevent such acts of violence, for knowledge alone does not create a personal morale, nor does it create ethical convictions. However, the memory can help us to understand, and it can show us what happens when the dignity of people is put out of power by state and the destruction of the dignity of man is the goal and content of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ethical beliefs are never guaranteed once and for all. They must be learned and lived daily. The human dignity is not only in danger when houses are lit or people are heated through the streets. That is why I would like to say quite clearly that, even though we are now dealing with the matter of restitution in a wide range of areas, there are still open issues here and there, and open issues are being discussed again and again by individual stakeholders in the future – the political formulation chosen here and there, that this solution could now be concluded and that this would ultimately be a reparation, should not be enforced. As a clubman, I should like to say clearly to my group: There is no reparation for this kind of crime, and a final line under the reprocessing of these terrible acts of the past cannot exist for us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I believe that with these replacement laws, we have one of the last opportunities to show some of the few survivors a financial gesture. Many who should have had this gesture for a long time have died in the past years and decades, provided that they were at all lucky to escape the hell of National Socialism. Most of the Jewish citizens in our country, the Roma, the Sinti, the homosexuals and others have failed to survive the hell of National Socialism. As far as they are concerned, we never had the chance at all to put this kind of financial gesture. With regard to the few Survivors now have this opportunity. That is why I am very happy that we are taking this opportunity together as Austrian Democrats, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that the decision-making of today's laws, especially if they are linked to a commitment to historical responsibility and the perception of historical responsibility for the future, we are taking an important step for ourselves and for Austria. I believe that we should put small disputes in the background and put the good common step in the foreground. It would also have been nice if the meeting of the Constitutional Committee had been held yesterday for the hearing of Mr Jahoda and Mr Muzicant because they were the two who were willing to present themselves in the Constitutional Committee for a discussion. This would have been the opportunity to document their political will as part of the negotiating groups and to explain together the understanding behind individual legal regulations. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. I believe that we should therefore use today's discussion and deliberations before the decision-making process to reach the clarifications that have not been made yesterday. This would give added political weight to the decision of the Restitution Laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17536	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17557	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In the preamble to our government agreement are the following words, which I recall to the House: "Austria takes its responsibility from the fatal history of the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website Our country accepts the bright and dark sides of its past and the actions of all Austrians, good and evil, as its responsibility. Nationalism, dictatorship and intolerance brought war, xenophobia, insecurity, racism and mass murder. The one-timeness and incomparableity of the Holocaust's crime are a reminder of constant alertness to all forms of dictatorship and totalitarianism." "The Federal Government is committed to critical discussion with the Nazi past. It will provide endless clarification, release of the structures of injustice and transfer of this knowledge to future generations as a reminder of the future. In the light of the interim report of the Austrian Historical Commission, the Federal Government will endeavour to find appropriate solutions in the field of Nazi forced labour." Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government and the entire National Council have spoken on this question. The entire National Council has incorporated a new provision on minority protection into the federal constitution. The entire National Council has adopted legislation on the compensation of Nazi forced workers. And I am pleased that this compensation fund law and the amendment to the National Fund Act are expected to be adopted unanimously today. I would like to thank the President of the National Council, Heinz Fischer, for his efforts to achieve this unanimity, as well as the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Peter Kostelka. [[We welcome the ÖVP and SPÖ as well as representatives of the liberals and the Greens.]] We have thus assumed our responsibility, as expressed in the debate on the establishment of the National Fund in 1995 – I quote – as follows: "The history of every nation knows dark and bright places. And the moral greatness of a nation is evident in dealing with the dark, with the darkest parts of one's history. I believe that in this context we Austrians have quite a lot of need for resurgence, but Austria was the first victim of National Socialism in 1938, but it was not just a victim. It has – and this is true of all honesty and openness, and that should not make us difficult... – also in the ranks of our countrymen culprits, and not a few." – I want to join these words; they are not mine. We therefore shoulder our responsibility if we decide today to adopt the amendment to the National Fund Act, which finally provides 150 million dollars for those poor people who lost their homes, their rental rights, their household councils in 1938 and were thus deprived of their livelihood. And I am also pleased that today we are donating a compensation fund as a "General Settlement Fund" with 210 million dollars, because it concludes a development. What is meant by this is that Members Kostelka, Krüger, Khol and Stoisits are expressing in a motion for a resolution of all four parties represented in the House, which I now want to read: [[Quoted print version removed]] This resolution expressly acknowledges and also acknowledges the final element. Ladies and gentlemen! This result has been achieved by concentrated and incredibly fast negotiations. I have already mentioned President Fischer and Peter Kostelka, but I would also like to express my express thanks to the government representative Sucharipa, Ambassador Dr. Winkler and the representative of the economy, Dr. Herbert Pichler, for the fact that in just three months a result was achieved and also the favor of the hour – since the Deputy Minister of Finance Stuart Eizenstat wanted to conclude this matter in the last days of his government activity – was used. Stuart Eizenstat is also a warm thank you. He has helped us – sick as he is – a lot with the use of his whole personality! I have reported eyewitnesses of the negotiations on how he intervened, and I think the Republic owes him thanks. [[General condolences.]] Let me close with a quote from Deputy Minister of Finance Eizenstat. ==References== Men in a press conference said: "What I want to say, and I mean it in a very sincere way: If we reach an agreement... this will also be recognised, not only by the government, the Federal Chancellor, but also by Parliament, which has given a strong support, throughout all parties under the leadership of the Chancellor,... but above all, if the Federal Chancellor permits me to do so, because I admire his leadership over all measures. Thank you also to the people of this country. It is not easy for a country to look back, we are all busy looking to the future, to the problems of the present – for the fact that the Austrians have supported this process, the Austrian population is to be thanked, and I am absolutely convinced that it will tell the world a lot about where Austria was in the 21st century. ==References== It will be a strengthening process, or it is already, as the Federal Chancellor has said, to look at your past, to draw lessons from it and to exercise justice on its basis, and the fact that the Federal Chancellor, Parliament and the people are ready to do so represents a huge historical achievement to this country." Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17672	Mr Kostelka, Dr. Krüger, Dr. Khol, Mr Mag. Stoisits and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17696	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! The Republic of Austria does not need to be particularly ashamed of the reparation or compensation legislation in respect of the revision of the consequences of National Socialism or to be particularly proud of it – not to be ashamed because the law to be decided today is by no means the first law to attempt to implement at least a financial reparation, where human reparation is no longer possible. It was already in 1946 the so-called nullity law. In addition, seven provisions were passed. According to the relevant documentation, a total of 43 000 provisions were handled in the Republic of Austria before the competent depositors and the above authorities. There was a variety of legal improvements in social security, and only in the previous legislative period could we decide on the National Fund Act. When I say that we need not, with special pride, to look into the past, what the reparation is about, it refers to the fact that there have always been currents that have spoken of "driving the matter to length". It is, of course, almost presumptuous – I admit – today as a parliamentarian, who was only praised in 1994 to practice silent criticism of the processes in the National Council, it is clear what tremendous efforts Austria had to make in order to create a flourishing democracy, a flourishing country from the ruins of the Second World War. Today's law and today's laws produce something very essential: It is to be concluded once and for all among the still open financial demands of victims and their heirs. – One final line can only be drawn under material claims. I have already repeated and also said in the Committee that at any time – whether it is 50 years after the Second World War, whether later or whenever – one has to face history and historical responsibility. I believe that by this law the Republic of Austria fulfils a very important responsibility. I would like to make a historical review and try to address the terrible events in the late 1930s and the 1940s. The troops of the "German Empire" were invaded in Austria in 1938. There are different theories about the way and the evaluation of this invasion. We know the Moscow Declaration of 1943, which states: Austria was the first victim of Hitler-Germany. And just a very short time ago, one of the most prominent resistance fighters, who were still alive thanks to God, Fritz Molden, said that it would not have required a violent invasion if Austria had voluntarily entered the "German Empire". – I think that’s something very essential! We must not ignore the fact that the invasion was ultimately carried out because the Austrian government has arranged a referendum in freedom. Because the German rulers feared the outcome of such a popular vote, as I believe, carried by patriotism, it came into play. And a referendum in a occupied country in which people are persecuted and imprisoned because of their race, their origin, their religious confession or their political attitude, can naturally not be described as a regular referendum, because it was a single falsification of the true will of the Austrians. But I do not know that Austrians were significantly involved in the Holocaust's death machinery. There's been a lot of important desk culprits among them. I myself have seen the protocols of the Wannsee Conference, which took place in 1942, and have to take note of this terrible bureaucratic cynicism, which ruled at the time: It was said that the Jewish population's members still in Germany had to be subjected to the toughest frontal and street construction use, under the most severe conditions, so that it was assumed that the Jewish population and race in Central Europe would be destroyed almost completely. However, if there are still survivors, these people should also be put to an end to life, since these people would be particularly suitable for multiplying themselves and producing specially-chosen people, according to the completely unwise doctrine of the race. This role, played by Austrians as both desk perpetrators and concentration camps, should not be recognized! Ladies and gentlemen! We have this responsibility. There were gaps in the compensation and restitution legislation that were rightly shown. These gaps are to be closed. As my previous speaker has already said, 150 million dollars will now be spent to compensate for the loss of rental rights, household councils, moving things and the like, and a total sum of 210 million dollars will be paid in order to pay off outstanding compensation claims. However, if these funds are paid out, the final line is also drawn among the financial claims. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What I can very much regret and do not leave unpronounced are the current attempts of the chairman of the Cultus community, Dr. Ariel Muzicant. I am personally seriously affected when he speaks of him, musician, "I have the impression that some kind of man's race is still coming out, and to the victim representatives explain where it's going." – That is what he means by reference to the committee members. I have to say that's the terrible NS phrase, and I'm really scared. [[Abg. Oils: It's better, you stop!]] I also feel personally attacked by a law on which it is concerned. [[Deputies Dr. Pilz and Mag. Stoisits: Better stop!]] To conjure up the spirit of agreement and reconciliation, we find such words for negotiators, negotiators and committee members who have really been committed to this legislation. [[Abg. May. Posch: It's better, you stop!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: An absolutely embarrassing person is that!]] I regret that, obviously, Mr Muzicant's personal sensitivity here is that he has not been taught yesterday – we have said that other victim representatives, such as Roma and Sinti, should be involved in the interests of this victim protection legislation. But we won't let it stop. And I am very glad that the head of the National Fund of the Republic of Austria, Mrs Hannah Lessing, has today declared: "The beginning is already made. If the National Council today, Wednesday, has decided on the compensation for the NS-,Arising’ sacrifice, the National Fund may send questionnaires to those already recorded in the computer. In this, possible claims to the funds now available are asked." Ladies and gentlemen! The National Council certainly cannot be prevented from adopting these important laws in order to quickly satisfy the necessary financial satisfaction or financial demands of the victims still alive.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17772	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17794	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If the President of the Israeli Cultural Community is accused of using Nazi phraseology just because he does not agree with everything that the blue-black government, including the opposition, has proposed to decide unanimously here today, then I think this is such an immeasurable thing that I really do not like everything I wanted to say to you following the speeches of my colleagues who spoke in front of me, also in relation to Dr. Krüger. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] "NS-phraseology" – when one speaks of the fact that there is no free buy of history, because so I interpret the president of the Israeli Cultus Church! It is not a free buy of history if today important, essential, in a certain way In terms of directional laws are passed, because there is no free buy-out of history. And so far I give all the right; in fact, until now, it was only Mr Gusenbauer, who spoke of it: There is no end of the Holocaust, there is no such thing as it is, and it will never exist! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is not a question of financial compensation, it is not a question of the amount of compensation, it is our responsibility that we try to avoid this free buy-out and that there is no such conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. I have already – it was one of the last meetings before the summer break in 1995 – experienced a similar discussion with a similar scope as regards the content of the law, and that was at the time when the National Fund Act was adopted. On the occasion of the decision-making of the National Fund Act, Johannes Voggenhuber, who at the time accompanied all these negotiations for the Greens and also, I believe, pushed them: While we have to hold the memory, the survivors are still held by it. As we keep the memory awake, they are kept awake from it, and as we remove ourselves from the event, they are again caught up with horror. These words – and you can read them in the minutes of the National Council – are something like a guide for what is being decided today. I believe that today, with this decision-making process, we are giving an answer to what many commentators, including many politicians, have critically questioned, even in this essential performance of the National Fund, namely whether Austria has perceived the chance of such a discharge in a sense of guilt and responsibility. I believe that these laws, which are in place here today, ladies and gentlemen, are a step forward, young people in this country who have the right and the duty to know the history of their country, but also to understand it, to offer them an opportunity to know the history of their country, and to take a little away from the commitment that we already have as an older generation. The young people, but also we all have the right to live without burden from the history of this country. And we see from the Green Group these laws, which we today agree with – we have also been involved in this very short, it was essentially a week, process of the legal version of the Washington Convention – as part of the commitment we have towards the future generations to be able to live without burden from history, but never so that it is a free purchase of responsibility and of history, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today many have been thanked and many have been mentioned in the previous speeches. I would also like to thank you, but above all I would like to thank those who have had 56 years of patience to wait for this to happen today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The victims and the heirs, who are also remembered today, are due to thank them. I have deep respect for one of these victims, who yesterday went up and down the corridors in front of the budget room and waited to get a chance to give us a symbolic hand in the Constitutional Committee of the National Council: Moshe Jahoda, a Viennese who was driven out, whose family was destroyed, murdered, gassed, who was robbed of everything that can only be robbed of an 11-year-old. And to him, an old gentleman, he is no longer the youngest, you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ, have taken the chance to reach out to us. This happened yesterday, and that, Michael Krüger, hit me! That hit me! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It has affected me that it is banal in a way that is so provincial, that is all so deep, I can and does not even want to describe it, because it is absolutely not in line with the dignity of what has been created here as a whole. That is why thanks to those who have been patient for so many years, but also to those who have managed to do so in recent months and especially in recent days, that we in the National Council – the negotiations in Washington did not lead the National Council, but government representatives – have the opportunity to put this act into practice today by legally implementing it. I have deep respect for those who did this in such a short time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. [[It is a pleasure to the Greens, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The laws that we decide today have essentially three aspects, and one for me is the most important and all-important, namely the novelle to the National Fund Act, which guarantees that 150 million dollars can be paid immediately and immediately to survivors of the Holocaust and the NS sacrifice – immediately and immediately! 150 million dollars, that's a sum that's impressive. But this is also a sum that is by no means capable of restoring, not symbolic, but rather a sum where everyone gets an amount that has lost an apartment at the time and still lives today. That is the condition. But it happens immediately. It can, if you give the consent to this law today, be started in a few weeks with disbursement. The National Fund of the Republic of Austria, with its proven team, its management and Secretary-General, will certainly implement it as satisfied as it is already used to the work of the National Fund in recent years. And that is the most important and important point for me to give this package as a whole, because here something is done quickly and immediately. As far as the 210 million dollars in the "General Settlement Fund" is concerned, it will be – and I am sure I am not wrong – years until survivors or heirs can directly expect disbursements, which is the result of the construction of this compensation fund. So at least in two and a half to three years money will flow there. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is all the more important that all aspects of the idea of restitution are also included. There are and can never be all aspects when there are negotiations between the one side that should be given something, and the other side that demands something, by the U.S. Deputy Minister of Finance Stuart Eizenstat, mentioned above. Eizenstat was a mediator, but played a very important role and will also play a role, namely in the question: Is there this legal certainty for Austria so often mentioned? Ladies and gentlemen! Although I agree with this law with conviction, because I consider it necessary, I say equally convinced that there will never be legal certainty, because not all aspects are comprehensively covered in all the details of it. We must be aware that it is the right of those who are robbed, of those who have been stolen, of those who are not able to defend themselves with legal remedies and to take those steps. It is another question, ladies and gentlemen, whether they are successful with their complaints and with their course of action; I do not want to predict what it will be like now. But we have no legal certainty, because after the events between 1938 and 1945, no one can have legal certainty, because what happened there is not, neither with words nor with gestures, nor with money and donations. That's why, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the third aspect of today's legislation, namely natural restitution, is also a more sensitive one. And that is why I have given great understanding to those who criticize those passages in the law in which it is clearly stated, namely, that what belongs to the covenant today, and where there is not definitely in it, is also returned directly to what communities and countries possess. I very much hope that political pressure and political will will will in the countries and in the communities will lead them to take a similar approach to those which the Federation does not intend to take, but must take. That is why the resolution that I myself have signed is too soft for me to say: We're asking to do it. Ladies and gentlemen! We ask the members of the Federal Government to carry out natural restitution because they are obliged to do so because they are both moral, that is not a question at all, but are legally obliged to do so. Under this agreement and after the adoption of these laws, they are also legally obliged to do so, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. One last aspect. In these hectic last days, there have been drafts, opinions from the political groups and again drafts – I do not know how many steps there have been – and in the very first draft there was a passage that will certainly appear very plausible to you all. To take it very briefly: Menless, without inheritance, which is still in the hands of the Republic, should be found if heirs do not want to be found in this way, to fall to the victims, in the case of the Federal Association of the Israeli Cultural Community of Austria. Not the Republic should benefit from the fact that heirs cannot be found, but we should be willing to return that to the victims. And that was what the first draft provided. This is no longer the draft which is now before us for decision-making, and I can tell you why not: because the Freedom Party and the Austrian People's Party have declared it out because they do not want to have it in place. They don't want the Israeli cult community to get it. That's not why it's inside. The pressure on us – and this also applies to the Social Democrats – to avoid breaking this consensus was so great that I didn't know what to do: either let everything go or be with it. And I have opted for the Green Group for the second because of a sense of responsibility. Nevertheless, I now ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of what you have heard in the debate and what you will hopefully hear from Mr Bundeskanzler in clear words, namely the commitment to co-responsibility and the apologies for the victims, the amendment that I am now going to read, to give your consent in order to be able to make this correction at the last minute; it has already been submitted. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We should not enrich ourselves with the robbed assets of people who have experienced the most incredible that is not expressible in words and where I lack the imagination to introduce it to me. That's why I'm asking you: Voices I would like to ask you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17953	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the negotiation or voting process. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e17977	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Reparation is a legal, political, material, but also an ethical and moral requirement. 6 million murders can't be recovered, billions of stolen assets can't really be reimbursed. The uniqueness of the crimes of Nazi Germany against the Jews of Europe is, in fact, evading all categories of thought. In view of the historical dimensions of the National Socialist extermination policy, there can only be approximations. The question of repairs is an infinite story – almost to say –. It took a total of 56 years. Questions of repair, restoration and reimbursement, the reparation were the subject of considerations from the Jewish side before 1939, but also the Allies were involved in this in the London agreement. Austria and the Allies were thus faced with these demands from the beginning. However, while reparation in the German debate has quickly referred to a foreign policy dimension by involving material achievements in the State of Israel and having connected these material benefits with a moral credit to be granted to Germany, history in Austria was a little different. A co-indebtedness of the Austrian people, which would have resulted in a duty to restitution, was definitely rejected. A willingness to pay reparation would have undermined the victim thesis of the Austrian state. What would make up for something if you were a victim yourself? To that end, I would like to relativize the objection of Mr Khol, the most courageous patriot of the Constitution, who said: Austria was not only victims of National Socialism, but also perpetrators. - No, no, no, no, no, But what does that say about the nature of National Socialism? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you know who I quoted, Mr. Posch? Mr Kostelka!]] Yeah, it's all right, the quote is all right. But then what's going on? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Because I've been counting on that when I say that I get an objection from you!]] The reality is a dark picture when one follows the report of the Historical Commission, according to which there was no obligation among the Nazis to throw out Jewish tenants. It took more than a year after the end of March 1938 before the National Socialists passed a law that allowed tenants to be put on the street alone because they were Jews. And yet before, 44,000 apartments were arranged. The Krüger’s adventurous thesis of the invasion that he has set up today and which is missing in the last sequence of Heroes Square is therefore only half the truth if one describes these things. The concept of Austria as the first victim of Hitler, the consensus on Austria's neutrality and also the state treaty have in fact made it difficult for the surviving Jews to claim rehabilitation. Where there were victims, where there was no conscience, there was also no political need to make restitution. A comprehensive moral, social and cultural rehabilitation of the Jews, all those who had to emigrate, among them numerous scientists, philosophers, poets, numerous spirit sizes of the First Republic, this comprehensive moral, social and cultural rehabilitation of the Jews has in fact been given in none of the three successor states of the "Third Reich", neither in the Federal Republic of Germany nor in the GDR, nor in Austria. That was, if you like, the late revenge of Hitler. In the 1990s, a number of things got into motion under the title "Legal Control". Mr Gusenbauer, our party chairman, has already referred to the speech of Vranitzky here in the National Council in 1991. Mr Schüssel referred, even if in a more differentiated form, to the fact that, without this opinion, there was no clarity. There has been the speech of Kletil in Jerusalem in 1994, which has found attention, there has been the anniversary against violence and racism, the events here in Parliament, the establishment of the National Fund, the establishment of the Historical Commission, the Reconciliation Fund Act on compensation for the Nazi forced workers and now the Restitution Agreement. It is true that Maria Schaumayer and Ernst Sucharipa have done great work in this context. Dr. Schüssel said it was important that the government managed to do something substantial for the victims within a year. I agree. They have also shown themselves optimistic about financial coverage. You said the pre-deparations were designed in such a way that you can say with confidence that the 360 million dollars can really apply. I believe you, and I hope it won't be the same as in the case of forced labourer compensation. In contrast to Germany, where one has agreed on a key of 50 : 50 by the state and the economy, the economy in Austria has, unfortunately, paid only 150 million schilling, and the government has plundered the insolvency fund by 3.8 billion schilling, and has almost had the immensity to pay the forced workers out of the insolvency fund and to make almost the unemployed pay for the forced workers. This contradicts any fundamental debt and atoning relationship. – So much for the technical side of the past. The extent of this greatest robbery of history alone proves the fact that some 200 billion schillings have been robbed. That's a relatively big sum if you compare it to the reparation sum of $1 billion. However, more serious than the material-technical side weighs the spiritual debate, the spiritual-cultural heritage, and there we are only at the beginning. I mean the continuity of anti-Semitic and racist thinking, the spiritual restitution, and that is not to be separated, because the truth is concrete. Federal Chancellor! I know you're holding it out, you're holding out a lot – eyes close and through! – but the fact is that Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, for example, explained that Austria has already paid 300 billion schillings as compensation to Jewish Nazi victims and that it is necessary to end them. That's where you have to defend the beginnings. If Mr. Dr. Haider says that it must be concluded that it is a deceptive hope of the Chancellor that he will receive undivided applause on the east coast, Mr. Muzicant will only be satisfied if he is also paid for the 600 million schilling debts he has accumulated in Vienna, then one must defend the beginnings. If Mr Prinzhorn said in the previous year that there was an approximation of systems that had long been overdue, this would be nothing but the closure of a two-class society, which is highly social, then one must ask: What is the political core of these statements? What does he mean by that? Is the current discussion, for example, by AK Vice-President Dirnberger, that it is an "ice-cold coup of blue desperados" to understand and to be classified under this system approximation? - That's where you have to defend the beginnings! If the head of state of Carinthia speaks of "parasitic elements", then one must defend the beginnings. If Mrs. Vice-Chancellor mentions that trade unionists have nothing better to do than think about how to damage the "state", then we must defend the beginnings. Or if, in today's debate, Mr Schweitzer said to Mrs Haidlmayr that she had "nostrility", then we must defend the beginnings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In his statement of government, the Federal Chancellor made the following statement: February 2000 said: "Austrian Nazi past requires a particularly alert and critical debate and the necessary sensitivity to the structures and mechanisms of the National Socialist Injustice System." – That’s right, that’s it! And this sensitivity I wish you and your coalition in particular, you need it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18036	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18058	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is a historic moment today when we stand here and have the opportunity to adopt these replacement laws. I also believe that the historical laws are that this is a historic agreement with the United States, and I would therefore like to present today, in my brief statements, the Joint Committee on the Separation. [[General condolences.]] In less than a year, one of the major projects of this Federal Government has been implemented. Two important issues have been discussed, negotiated and resolved, namely the question of forced labour and the question of restitution. I believe that this is the biggest success of this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to say that I was a bit proud of being an Austrian, when Mr. State Secretary Eizenstat gave you, Mr. Bundeskanzler, to all negotiators, but also to the Austrian people, his respect for this achievement. After solutions have not been addressed for a long time, serious and constructive discussions have now taken place, and they have shown that difficult materials can also be solved together. The gaps in the refund legislation could be closed. I believe that, one of my previous speakers, Dr. Krüger, has also noted this, and that has always been pointed out by us – it is a final regulation of material demands, ladies and gentlemen, of course, regardless of moral responsibility and commitment. I would like to take a brief look at the last comment made by Mrs Stoisits, after which the text of § 27 was amended to operate the ÖVP and the FPÖ. It was not our business, but we got the text in accordance with the agreement with the United States and wanted this text just as the agreement with the United States was negotiated, also decided – and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, I would like to thank all those involved – the Federal Government, the Special Ambassador Dr. Sucharipa, Ambassador Dr. Winkler, the Syndicus Dr. Pichler and their teams – and the Austrian economy for the willingness to provide services, and also the ladies and gentlemen in this House, who in some day and night negotiations have enabled us to adopt these laws today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18124	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18145	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to the negotiators. As a lawyer, I can also express my respect for the high professionalism and competence expressed by the two Ambassadors Searcharipa and Winkler and their team. It was impressive, and you can only say that they did great things. I am not at all disappointed that one of my predecessors considered it necessary to change from party-political small money here today, at this hour. I've been expecting that. It didn't surprise me, it didn't disappoint me, I expected it. That's just how it is, you have to know. You have to know when you're in this house for a long time – and I've been in this house for 22 years: A person who benefits from the silence of the hour always finds himself to hear what he does not have otherwise. That's it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Another speaker has awakened in me certain memories. As a very young lawyer, I have been negotiating in front of the Restitution Commission, which has been housed there, where the Mittersteig Justice Centre is located today. I stepped in there. One has usually, and this is tragic and interesting at the same time, as an opponent did not have physical persons, but the A or the B collection station. These were places of collection that were then accepted of the property, which was arranged and for whose provision no one found themselves, either because the person no longer lived or because he had no interest or for other reasons. There was then one of the two colloquiums, one of which claimed to be one of the two. And there has not been left what no interested person has found, but it has flown to the gathering places. It is also interesting the number mystics. I didn't notice until I listened to some speakers: 150 million dollars increase in the National Fund Act – this is also a sum that has had to be negotiated and paid in connection with the reprocessing of the consequences of the Second World War and all the consequences of the history associated with it. 150 million dollars was paid by the Republic of Austria for the so-called German property in councils to the Soviet Union. It is interesting how individual sums appear again and again in such events – not comparable, but nevertheless 150 million dollars there and 150 million dollars there. One allows me as lawyers to see things very strongly from the legal side. Damage suffered by victims of crime is good to do – actually a banality; also a word that has already fallen today – actually a matter of course, but not always easily enforceable. It is a development that gives rise to pride – although it has already been said today that we have no reason to be proud – that Austria has undertaken to make material compensation for this great damage to the crimes committed. Major crimes, mass murders, mass displacements, mass harvesting of assets are also to be compensated in a large style. What needs to be restored in the small part of the individual perpetrators, that in large other groups have to do legal formations. Another thing: There must be no limitation in this respect. It is good to recall this, because the states and their representatives tend to always represent the point of view that there should be no limitation, where they themselves are just right, and to call on the course of years and decades, where they consider it to be favourable. It also includes the punishment of the guilty. Whoever has committed crimes, who can be caught and dubiously transferred after such a long time, belongs to the just punishment wherever he may be present. And it also belongs to the fact that for the victims it is completely no matter who, where and for what concrete reason they were murdered, robbed, driven away. We are experiencing an important act at this hour's time in the context of the financial – I emphasize: the financial one, because unfortunately another is not possible – compensation for a very essential victim group. And I stress once again, I am proud to be active in a state in which crime, especially major crimes, is mentioned by name and one tries to compensate for damage. I am glad that I am not at home in one of the states, as unfortunately there are also in Europe, also in our neighborhood, in which we proudly remember our crimes in the past, proudly confessing to them and representing the position of mass murder, mass displacement, mass harvesting of assets were an excellent act, which is also not inwardly well-made, in which one refuses to lay things open on the table, in which one wants to know nothing about damages and in which then still find good spirits, who say that one cannot really imagine that after so long time they still confess to their crimes. This is an attitude, ladies and gentlemen, that we must fight decisively. The right is indivisible, and the wrong is also indivisible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] So there is still much to do in the sector of the atoning of major crimes, the compensation of the damage that has been done, the moral, the spiritual, the historical, but also the material damage. We are often kept in mind that we did not adhere exactly to what some call a community of values of Europe. There is no doubt this community of values, it is probably different, as critics of Austria have put it on the table over the past few months, but we must try to ensure that not only we, but also the others, even those who believe, can do everything that has happened within their borders, remember the community of values and prove themselves worthy of their legal status and also in their political conduct of this community of values, and behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18217	Next, Mr. Federal Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18238	Mr President. High house! If, within a year, two important and sensitive issues such as the agreement on the question of forced labour and the restitution in the Nazi era could be successfully concluded in difficult international negotiations, you will allow me to call this a real success, not only for the current account of this federal government – I would also like to express very clearly the role and support of Mrs Vice-Cancecian and Mr Finanzminister – but this is a common success. I would also like to thank you very much for the fact that at the beginning of this debate, the most important speakers also noted and held impressively. This is a sign of a still existing red and white consensus, and I thank you for that. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] I do not conceal the fact that the conclusion of these negotiations does not leave me untouched without emotions, because I, of course, also personally invested in it, spent time and energy. But above all my thanks, as well as the forced labour union Maria Schaumayer and her team, Ambassador Ernst Sucharipa, who is sitting here on the gallery with his team and attending the debate. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank the head of the International Law Bureau, Ambassador Hans Winkler, who today cannot be there, which I very much regret. Mr. Ambassador Winkler is on his way to an international conference, to a conference in Berlin, where – after many Efforts – Austria will be included in a very specific working group belonging to this subject complex. – I would also like to thank the representative of the economy, Herbert Pichler, for a long time. If I may be quite honest: At the beginning of this process, we ourselves were not quite sure how this will work. We thought first: Is it right to separate these two complexes, or should one bring together – as in Germany – the question of forced labour and the question of restitution, where Austria has already done a lot? – The question of forced labour was about totally new terrain. I followed the recommendation of Maria Schaumayer in particular at the time – and I think it was a correct recommendation. We then considered: In this situation, who is best able to exert the power that almost overhuman power for these incredibly complicated negotiations? Openly stated: It is only a few of them that make a picture of what it means to negotiate with many, many, many hours, days and nights, with very, very complicated texts, with many, many lawyers in this matter. Faith You're telling me: These were sometimes – at least on those points where I have been there – not unemotional negotiations at all. And I understand that too. At this point I would also like to express my thanks to the American negotiating team, which has handled this very well and very professionally. The U.S. Minister of Finance, who is now separated from the office – before he was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – Stuart Eizenstat, who created a total package of more than $7 billion in negotiations for all Shoa victims and forced workers, was a smart, very energetic, but also sensitive negotiating partner. And that is why I would like to thank him very much from this point of view on behalf of the Austrian Federal Government for this commitment! [[General condolences.]] And one thing is clear: If it is a common success, then the confession also belongs to it. I am glad and proud that it has succeeded in making a common sense, especially at a time when we have also had quite emotional and controversial debates. That is why I would also like to thank the groups of the House, first to the opposition, to the club presidents Alfred Gusenbauer and Peter Kostelka. But I would particularly like to highlight the role of Heinz Fischer, the President of the National Council, who helped us with his team as a first-class and very, very helpful support. I would like to mention, of course, the Green Group, both Clubobmann Van der Bellen and Mrs Stoisits, who have contributed equally much. I would also like to thank Andreas Khol and Ulrike Baumgartner for my group, Mr Peter Westenthaler and Michael Krüger – and, of course, I would also like to include the government representatives, including the liberals. I mean, it's a first-class, a beautiful piece of work that we have succeeded in doing, which we should not look back on triumphantly now, but which gives us security in that we have done the right thing. That is important, also in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Some speakers have already said a lot – and I agree – but I would like to add a few "naturalities" from my point of view. Of course, I am very, very painfully aware that no financial gesture can be a tax for theft of lifetime, of life's happiness, of health and of self-determination. No money in the world can replace what people in the Nazi era were violently taken. And as with all victims, we must be helplessly aware that in the end there is no charge for suffering and injustice. So, of course, the solution achieved today can only be one gesture, but it can be an important one. It is also a matter of course to note here that this Republic has done so many things in the post 1945 period; Robert Knight, however, makes it very clear in his publication on the Council of Ministers protocols that the people had to be explained daily, above all, why there are no more food and not yet enough apartments, why there is no need for many. And at that time, of course, it was very, very difficult to hold the big, liberating compensation debate. That's true. It is therefore a matter of course – and this is also part of the substance of this act – to say: We act late – for too many victims too late! – but it’s better to do this now! And it has also been right to take a maximum pace in the negotiations so as not to be too late. A number who personally shook me: Last year – for the German side this was admitted by a high-ranking speaker: one came too late because the fund for reconciliation, future and history in Germany still cannot work – only in the territory of former Czechoslovakia 7 000 NS victims died. I mean, it was right, therefore, that we chose this path, that we took a very fast pace and tried to clarify things in full. Also a very open word about the debt or the role of Austria: It is quite clear that there have already been great and impressive speeches. I am not at all – as some speakers have said here – to refer here to the former German Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky, who not only spoke for himself, but of course to Austria. The Federal President Thomas Kletil also belongs to this series; he has also spoken for Austria, as was the case with the declaration made by this Federal Government in February of this year or also with my speech reports, as has the Vice-Chancellor in whom we have stressed the role of Austria. It is also a matter of course, and there is no stone from the crown at all, to say: We are sorry that we can act late, but hopefully not too late, with your help for the still living victims. Nor do we want to get rid of an unpleasant problem in any way. You are right, Mrs Stoisits: A final line in thought, a final line under history can and should never exist, but what needs to be expected – and that is, as it were, the core of today’s treaty – is that we implement this one, as precisely as possible. There must be legal certainty. An Austrian entrepreneur will find it difficult to explain – not even the municipality of Vienna or the federal government – that, under a very special legal title, a very substantial payment of money is used, but is not given as much and as comprehensive legal certainty as possible. That is to say, this Treaty is not the moral conclusion among all that has happened, but it is an attempt to clarify as much legal certainty as possible for the future for all those concerned in Austria. And that unites us, ladies and gentlemen here in the House! This is the basis of this treaty, which you are today, so to speak, transforming into a law! A word on those points, which were also mentioned critically here. And let me perhaps make very critical comments on this. Previously, a Member has said something that has hit me personally in the heart – and I cannot keep silent about it, as an Austrian Chancellor. In this debate, it was said that there are three successor states of Nazi Germany: the Federal Republic of Germany, the GDR and Austria. [[Call the ÖVP: Awesome!]] – Ladies and gentlemen! That's just not right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This Austria is not an NS successor state! We must not accept this attempt to rewrite the story! I am saying this quite clearly, because, for example, the Moscow Declaration is expressly mentioned in this treaty which you will decide today – with the government statements that are part of it. I personally negotiated this with Stuart Eizenstat with Ambassador Sucharipa. This is a document that does not come from Austria, but is described by the Allies, in which, by the way, not only the role of the victims of Austria, but also the responsibility of the Austrians, before whom we cannot press ourselves. But we must not continue to rotate there and say that Austria is almost a successor state to Nazi Germany! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unmistakable!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not true, and this is also the reason why Austria received a total Austrian government in 1945 – the drama of this difference may not be known to everyone here. And that is also the reason why Austria signed a state contract in 1955 and did not get a peace agreement! And that is also the reason why the protocols of the Nuremberg process, in the statement of judgment, clearly state the difference between the aggression of the military occupation of Austria and the occupation of other countries. These are, I know, only nuances for the unbiased observer, but nuances that are equally part of our history and cannot be blinded away – and should not be blinded away at all, ladies and gentlemen of the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another point: Since sensitivity has been suggested here, I also ask for fairness, because I, because we have not "ploughed" the insolvency fund. Let me explain what this is all about. We have proposed – and this is part of the government programme – to reduce employers' contributions, because the economy is paying into the insolvency funds, into a fund that has considerable surpluses, through the good economic situation and so on. It was therefore part of the Government Convention that employers' contributions were reduced. And I also say openly that we have postponed this contribution to make the contribution of the economy more visible. – This did not happen to the joy of the economy. However, my respect and my recognition for the fact that this necessary gesture, I say now, was ultimately understood by the economy. – So don’t ask me to "flood" the insolvency fund now! I mean, it's important that we don't fight around for long now, have months-long and tormenting disputes like in Germany, how this necessary fund is to be filled. We feed on the money and thus create legal certainty, and with it we also give the US courts the opportunity to reject mass complaints from the outset, after the "statement of interest" of the United States is now also present. – That’s the real reason – and no malice you have tried to impose on me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to thank you very much for this resolution of the National Council today, which makes it clear, as I believe, that it should be of course for everyone. And also in the restitution in rem, i.e. in the return of a house, a property, but also about art and cult objects to the cultus community, clear text is spoken. That means we're going to stick to it. My commitment on behalf of the Federal Government is that we will be happy to stick to this joint resolution of the National Council, because that is simply a matter of course for me. But I am also saying this – Mrs Stoisits, this is now, please, not a Marotte, but a question of wisdom: Please remain with that text, which has been precisely negotiated in hard negotiations with the victim organisations and with the US Government! I would really disapprove of amendments in the current situation. I myself have tried to get the approval of the American side to do so. We have two very important written documents in our hands: first, the assurance of Stuart Eizenstat that all the victim organisations have signed and initialled this and that this contract is in force. And there can and must be no doubt about that! I say this very clearly at this hour, just before the adoption of this legislative act. Secondly, we have the assurance, the commitment of the American Government, that this text, which you have today before you for decision-making, corresponds to what we have negotiated together. Therefore, please: Let's stick to this text! – What will be in two, three years, if the Committee of Historians once again puts facts on the table, which would be added to the question of in-rem restitution, we will see. Then one can certainly continue to talk, but today we need clear legal certainty and standing up to what we have negotiated together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Treaty contains a number of social improvements, especially for elderly victims. However, it also contains a clear commitment to the return of art and cult objects. At this point I can now submit that in recent months we have returned 1 200 art items, objects of considerable value – furniture, porcelain, coin collections, pictures et cetera. We also have the commitment of important collections in countries or cities that they will follow one example. We also have the commitment of important cities that they are willing to take care of Jewish cemeteries and thus contribute to remembering to a worthy solution of problems in this area. We still have the issue of compensation to the Cultus community as part of this Treaty the problem related to HAKOA. At least this is a total of 120 million Schilling, which is to be used for the construction of a sports facility. – And we have also undertaken the implementation of a number of immaterial points. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank you very much for setting here today, with a unanimous decision, as I hope, a "important gesture"; Stuart Eizenstat couldn't express it better. None of us would have dared – even with this good pathos – to describe the role of all of Austria and its population. I understand the impatience of the negotiators and have great understanding of the doubts and scepticism of victim associations and really concerned, and I can also understand the anger that sometimes swings there – and which can be heard until the hour just in today's explanations. Nevertheless, I do not think we should forget the common and the size of this moment. We do not owe ourselves, and in that sense we cannot blame ourselves, but say what is. And we not only speak great words, but finally put the necessary actions. What I ask – and what I also intend to do – is to take away the sensitivity involved in solving this question for other big questions: whether it is about issues of the international war criminal tribunal or about alertness in international politics and, of course, also about alertness in the inside. – Thank you for these hours anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18433	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18454	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to follow up on the comments made by my previous speakers and say: It's right, it's not just about – and can't be – doing reparation in the real sense, but about compensation, and it's also about compensation law. We do not do this for ourselves – which motives can always be decisive – but for those people who suffered particularly in the years 1938 to 1945. This is a very essential motive for this legislative act. Let me briefly mention three points. First point: It is crucial – as has already been said here – that the financial resources of these funds should directly benefit and be fed to those people who, in those years, had to face many disadvantages and great sufferings and left Austria. I think it is great and right that the compensation is handled through the National Fund. Second point – the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned it –: With these social security laws, which we decide with the compensation law, we include all those who lived in Austria at the time, who were born at the time, in our social system, and they are fully included in our statutory pension insurance. They now receive the pensions of the victims without regard to citizenship, and they are included in our care fund law. This probably means an almost equivalent social security for these victims and is an even more important measure than the mere compensation that has been made. I would also like to include in the thanks already expressed in this context those two gentlemen who have worked out and worked out the necessary laws in the Ministry of Social Affairs. They belong to our Minister Mag. Herbert Hauptan, who has really done what was important to give these people full social security protection, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Unity Party!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: He has joined the ÖVP!]] I do not know that there have been preparatory work here by previous ministers, by SPÖ ministers. I myself was there when, three times in the last twelve years, we changed and extended the social laws for this reason to include an ever larger circle of victims. This is not to be mentioned here after this has been mentioned a short time ago. Let me conclude with a personal comment: I remember very well that Mr Voggenhuber held here in the House at night about six years ago in the summer, and I know that many older people in our country were seriously affected at that time. We should therefore also be very careful today to deal with the convictions of those people who lived at the time. We should be very careful here when we take lump sum judgments, assign lump sum ing responsibilities. These people who lived at the time were not all officially victims, but they suffered, and I believe that most of the people of that time suffered the worst, even though the individuals are not recognized today as official victims in the legal sense. They deserve our respect today just as they did 20, 30, 40 and 50 years ago when those people who have passed laws that were directly affected by them. I also ask you, Mr Mag. Posch to be fair here, to be fair to our older generation. It is not good if we try to argue in this way, and I know that such statements make older people, including those young men who had to do military service at the time, very affected. I feel obliged to say this in the sense in which Christof Zernatto also expressed himself in the last debate on this subject. I think we should distinguish and make clear points. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18514	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18536	Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Many previous speakers have already said the most important thing on this issue today; I can therefore take a short look at it. By means of this amendment to the National Fund Act, 150 million dollars are expected to be distributed more quickly. If that, Mr Posch, is publicly claimed by our Clubobmann Westenthaler, then he has spoken a truth. I don't understand why you're attacking him here from the speaker's desk. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have to tell you that your contribution today was a badly successful attempt at a polemic against the Federal Government. We will not use this debate today to account for the SPÖs in their history and to put their fingers on the wounds of their past, especially on these issues. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Posch blushed!]] This issue is too important for us today. In addition to these 150 million dollars, there are some other steps taken by the Federal Government. On the basis of the comprehensive agreement – the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned it – there will still be measures that will require more than 500 million dollars, the previous payments of the National Fund of 140 million dollars in the recent past, the forced labour compensation of 400 million dollars. In total, these amounts amount to over $1 billion or 16 billion schilling. This amount has been called by Vice-Finanzminister Eizenstat and has not been put into the world by the liberals here. Often, the payments that Austria has already made in the past will be forgotten and kept silent. On the basis of a number of laws starting with the Law of Vanity in 1946 and covering seven provisions, Austria has already done 125 billion schilling in reparation. We are still trying to make improvements in those few areas which have not been covered by the previous compensations through the current and today's measures to be decided. It is therefore the filling of gaps in the existing restitution and compensation legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out that the previous payments of 125 billion schilling and the current payments of almost 16 billion were made, not on the basis of legal commitments, but only on the basis of political and moral responsibility, towards the former persecuted. If you also discredit: This is the position of this Federal Government and also the FPÖ. The measures to be taken today fill these gaps with a view to ensuring material reparation to the fullest extent. Austria can therefore also claim a final conclusion of the material reparation with Fug and Law. The required end line, as Mr Krüger also called him, is drawn – material. There is no historical finale: The story lives, in the good as in the bad. It is clear to me, of course, that it is a matter of concern to some that it is precisely this government that has brought this difficult issue to a good end, but, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we cannot change that. But one thing must also be said: Anyone who threatens this good end must also assume responsibility for it in further consequence. We liberals will stand by this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18585	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18612	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! If there is a likely historical achievement of your federal government, then it is not the measures you advocate in the budget with the transformation of political institutions here in that country, but it is indeed the achievements we are talking about today. It is a historical achievement – that it is recognized as such – to you – but it is also a tactical achievement that has only grown from the meeting of special circumstances: from the situation of Austria, from the fact that, as you said, you also want to achieve legal certainty for our economy, for our companies abroad, from the special situation of one of the two government parties and from the special situation of last year. The fact that your historical achievement, Mr Bundeskanzler, has not been followed by a historic speech today is no more disturbing. It would have been possible. In my opinion, it is linked to the fact that tactics – and you can stand for that – still play an important role in the production of historical performance and in the refusal of historical speech. When you said, Mr Bundeskanzler, I cannot say that I have to comment on Parliament's position, as I thought after the first half of the sentence, you would say something to Mr Ofner. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes, that was also necessary!]] I would have liked to see Mr Ofner, who made a comparison in his speech and put the restitution in a context by saying – he did not say it in exactly these words – that: The robbers are not ready for reparation. - I don't say that by chance. It was quite clear in this context that he means the countries that have been attacked by National Socialism, in which – whether the Beneš decrees or the AVNOJ decrees are – there are provisions under which people have actually suffered – I do not want to dispute at all – provisions under which people have also been persecuted, but which are only explainable in the historical context by what is happening this year, exactly this year's 60. On occasion, the attack on Yugoslavia is yearning. [[Abg. Jung: Murdered! Murdered cruelly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: "Litter"? - Murdered! Children, infants, women!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then it will be "insignificant"!]] – This concerns at least one part, the AVNOJ decrees. I've just read a historical work on this. If you have read such extensive historical work – and that was, as I mean, no partisan work – about what happened during National Socialism, and what was then done by the AVNOJ decree, at least you, honourable Member Ofner, do not come to the idea of counting one with the other, even if I notice the suffering. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're expecting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You've read the wrong book, colleague Oillinger!]] Because you, Mr Bundeskanzler, said that the three successor states, which are not there, I would particularly like to point out, in connection with what happened during National Socialism, the atrocities committed not only in the field of the SS, but also in the field of Wehrmacht, especially by Austrians, for example, the Chief General Löhr. I would also like to point out that there were Austrian federal states – now again Austrian federal states, then East Märkische Gaue – in their territory and by their governors, provincial governors, Gauleiter were committed these atrocities: Styria, Carinthia. It is difficult not to include the Chancellor in all the considerations – and with this I am back on the subject – that you have often also been silent: have kept silent about explanations, given that everyone in the Republic – including us, not just you – would be able to protest out loud. I do not see why Mr Posch should speed up criticism of this three-state theory, where he has drawn attention to other very important facts, namely the fact that, in the context of the restitution negotiations, a stereotype has once again been reintroduced for everyone in the political debate which has already been overcome, namely the east coast: "And once you've got to be calm!" This has not only happened once, but it has come more often, Mr Bundeskanzler – and I agree with you – not in the ongoing debate in order not to endanger the outcome. But here in this debate I would have liked you to say more clearly than you did: Never can rest on this subject! We can never make up for what our forefathers broke at the time. I would have liked to see your attempt to apologise for the late performance of this Republic turned into a clear apologies from that country to the victims. Please allow me to make a final comment: 16 years ago – I was of course a political person – I came to Vienna. Until then, I had not been allowed to know even those who had resisted during the period of National Socialism. These were years that I do not want to miss, not because of the stories, but because of the life force and the political conviction with which these people – who have participated in fearsome things – went to schools for this republic in the 1980s to talk to the young people there as witnesses in time to convince them to share their life experiences with them. That was 80-year-old people back then. With enthusiasm they have done this and with full use! Nobody lives out of them today. Of these I also know that when they returned after 1945, none of these rather simple people claimed a benefit and that they were very unhappy about what the Republic offered them in the 1980s in attempts of reparation. They returned in 1945 and actually wanted to come to their apartment – these were rental apartments, because not everyone had an apartment – and they saw that these rental apartments were, of course, also occupied by Nazi followers, along with their furniture. They – I know, because not only once, but two or three times that was told to me – surrounded the apartments. Some have also tried to talk to the apartment owners – they were rather bad experiences. Some have not trusted themselves in the apartment and have otherwise tried to take a foothold in this country. I'd like to talk about that too. They have not had anything in the past of these restitutions or of other restitutions. So if we decide something here and today, ladies and gentlemen, then be sure, even if you still put up so much: Firstly, it cannot be made right again, and secondly, many have never tried to obtain a benefit from this Republic. The only thing they demand from this Republic is recognition: recognition as a victim. In this context, Mr Bundeskanzler, the last final remark: I would like us to continue to deliver this recognition for the victims – and it is still pending, and I have not tried to make it a subject of the debate in the form of a request. I'll take you very seriously in what you said. In the victim welfare law, we have still excluded groups from recognition as victims. I think that if we have put this performance behind us today, we should also think about the few still outstanding groups of victims, whether they are now forced-sterilized, homosexual or so-called asocial who have been persecuted by National Socialism, and also give them political recognition as victims.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18737	The next speaker is Mr Dr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18758	Ladies and gentlemen! I have been elected to the Third President of this House quite a year ago by all of you – or you allow me to say: by all of you – and I have never spoken this year, a long-standing exercise, because I believe it is wise if Presidents, in order to document the independence of their position, stand out from the political debate here in the House. I distance myself today because this is a historic hour and because I believe that personal confessions should also take place in historical hours. I think it is necessary for each of us, regardless of its position, to be committed to the responsibility that each Austrian must have, namely to be responsible for the fact that it was hardly more than half a century ago in the middle of Europe and in the middle of the 20th century. The century has given unimaginable events, and I believe that all of us are obliged to pass on the memory of them to future generations. I think it is also a matter of setting signs for the survivors, because we have to imagine what they have done and that they have not dared to return home years later, but that they have not experienced a corresponding sign. I would therefore like to thank all those who have tried to find solutions and to follow the words. I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government for the very first time, who have begun and completed this work. However, I regret that it was not possible in all speeches to express this seriousness even at this hour. I have, for example, regretted – and I would like to say this openly here – the fact that a word was clearly withdrawn for tactical reasons and put to the very end so that certain things could be expressed, which otherwise would not have been possible. . I believe that there is no need to hear certain words from the Federal Chancellor. He has expressed his personal concern in this House with such an urgency that we should all take an example! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this decision today. I would like to thank all those who have taken the foreground and put it in the foreground.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18810	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. I come to the vote – since there is no wish of reporting on final reporting. They shall be made separately between the various Committee applications. First, we vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for victims of National Socialism, including the title and receipt in 475 of the Supplements. This draft law contains a constitutional provision and I therefore establish the necessary quota for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give a sign on this point. . I note that this draft law was adopted unanimously not only with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading show this by a sign. . Here again, I can say that the proposal for a law at third reading was not only adopted by a majority of two-thirds, but was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 476 of the Supplements. Since this draft law – it concerns a federal law on the establishment of a general compensation fund for victims of National Socialism and on restitution measures, as well as amending the General Social Security Act and the Victim Care Act – contains constitutional provisions, I am again allowed to adopt the corresponding quota. Mrs Mag. Stoisits and comrades a amendment to Art. 1 § 27 para. 2 introduced. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the law concerned by the proposed amendment and then on the rest of the law. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this amendment to give a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. I note that this provision has now been adopted unanimously as part of the Committee's report. I shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, which have not yet been voted on. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, agreeing to these remaining provisions of the law at second reading to a sign in this regard. . I can say that this part was adopted unanimously, so the two-thirds majority required for the constitution is also given. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . I note that the proposal at third reading was not only adopted by a majority of two-thirds, but was adopted unanimously. We are finally voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kostelka, Dr Krüger, Dr Khol and Mrs Mag. Stoisits has been introduced and concerns the outcome of the restitution negotiations. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this motion for a resolution to do so by means of a sign. – I notice: The motion for a resolution has received the unanimous approval of the House. (E 53.) That is what we have done with this item on the agenda. 9. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Twenty-third Report (III-39 of the Supplements) of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. 359 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18920	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting by Dr. Spindelegger. I am therefore going to the list of speakers at once. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e18950	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! There is no doubt that this report by the Public Prosecutor's Office is important, especially because the government is otherwise opposed to expert opinions or experience reports and I appreciate the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office expressed in the report as an expert opinion. However, this report also contains suggestions and recommendations for reform, which must be understood as an appeal to the legislator to act in these areas. I deliberately choose from this report three examples of women's and family policy, although, of course, a number of significant suggestions and opinions in this report are included in the report, such as the inequality between men and women in transfers to pension insurance funds or the dwindling possibilities of the People's Procuratorate in distributed establishments et cetera. I choose – as I have said – three examples of women's and family policy, which is why the Federal Government has very little understanding of this and, above all, has nebulous plans regarding women's and family policies. For the maintenance advance: In this context, an annual increase in complaints is observed, in particular by those parents who are dependent on public assistance, an existential aid for them. The procedures are long-lasting, there are double-tracking, emptying and little transparency. There are also lengthy testing procedures, on the one hand with regard to the performance of the dependant, on the other with regard to the need of the dependant. And for the whole time, the parent entitled to care – and that is in the majority of cases the mother – is there without financial support. This is, as has been said, a time-consuming procedure. Nevertheless, the affected parent does not know for sure whether he will actually receive the money he needs. I can only follow the conclusions of the Public Prosecutor's Office: The original objectives of the Maintenance Advancement Act cannot be achieved with the existing regulations. Therefore, there are also proposals from the People's Procuratorate, together with the Court of Auditors and the Association of Office Premières – proposals which my group joins – concerning the decoupling of maintenance advance and maintenance appropriations and fixed maintenance security amounts, which are managed by youth carers. This would help, in particular, the heavily burdened group of single parents, and the appeals and appeals courts would be greatly relieved. From a family-political point of view, a reform of the Maintenance Advancement Act is also necessary. That would be a concrete, truly effective – that is a word you like to use from ÖVP and FPÖ – further development of our family support system! It is, of course, unnecessary to note in this context that the childcare allowance is the opposite of it! Second point: The identification of care needs in children with severe disabilities is a real vulnerability in the care system. The amount of the care allowance is not based on the effects of the physical and mental deficits, but on the age and extent of the additional care needed in comparison to the same age. The classification system is therefore not child-friendly. In addition, the different procedures are included in the country laws and in the Federal Care Act. I would also like to say that my group has already tabled a motion for a resolution on the abolition of the age limit of three years and the harmonisation of national and federal laws. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on the often lacking consideration of family care obligations by the labour market service in job placements and in training. The aim of the countermeasures proposed by the Public Procuratorate is to ensure a human performance practice by the AMS. This, however, is contrary to the labour market policy of this Federal Government, because many reduction measures that the Federal Government has set in recent weeks focus on the groups of the unemployed and emergency workers. The Public Prosecutor's Office also makes remarkable proposals in relation to the opportunities of women seeking employment, namely on improving the offer of childcare facilities in any form, especially in the afternoon and holiday services in crisis regions with high female unemployment and too few childcare facilities, on the further development of the three-phase model and the development of support models for businesses that take into account family obligations and the needs of single-parents in working hours and timetables. – However, we need binding family benefits on the part of businesses in this area, because if we continue to depend on the good will of the economy, this will continue for many years. If the ÖVP were to develop more ambition in this area – if you look at the presence, you can see that ambition is not great! – then Austria would be made the most family-friendly country in the world! [[Abg. Donabauer: Not many Members of the SPÖ are here either!]] - Did I wake you up? [[Abg. Donabauer: At Klubobmann Kostelkas speech were entire six social democrats in the hall!]] The indication that the public prosecutor's proposals are diametrically opposed to what the Federal Government is doing is certainly unnecessary! The Federal Government immediately removed the funds for the expansion of childcare facilities and made life difficult for unemployed women in every way possible! Last point: I wonder how long the Federal Government can still afford to ignore another qualified voice!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19006	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19028	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen of this House! My predecessor seems to have missed the fact that this is the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year 1999 and that it identified shortcomings particularly in the field of the Social Ministry, which had been socialistly dominated for decades! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: During the reporting period Hostasch was Federal Minister!]] Despite this, the three lawyers and their employees deserve to be thanked by this House for their excellent work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This report gives us great insight into the complexity, importance and success of the activities of the national lawyers in the sense of the citizens, but also into the problems they face in their daily work. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, People's Lawyers, the reaction of this House to your report is not to be used alone in thanking and in phrasing support. They are faced with the consequences of the laws and norms adopted by us here for the citizens. That is why and because laws are not self-evident, your statements – the statements of the public prosecutor’s office – must be an important basis of work for the mandates of this House. Ladies' People's Lawyers and Mr. Volksanwalt! In accordance with the Annex to your report, you have set out a detailed table of your legislative suggestions. These are very easy-to-use issues, including many clarifications, information rights, the creation of legal bases for the activities of authorities which are already active without legal basis. I recall the civil attacks that, as I said, operate without any legal basis. – Such small things would also bring great relief to citizens in dealing with the offices. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a question of many of the public prosecutors' demands being repeatedly listed in the annual reports to the National Council for ten years and longer and not being dealt with here in the House, that although we are well aware of the reports year after year and agree to the general praises, they do not create any relief in their work! I would like to give you two examples of cases concerning which the public prosecutor has been addressing suggestions to the House for more than a decade: For example, the limitation period is ten years under the official arrest law, whereas the limitation period in civil law is 30 years. – I see that there is a sharp disparity! For example, in the general administrative procedure, a replacement for unfounded procedures is required in the case of payment of costs in accordance with § 74 of the AVG. The Public Prosecutor's Office already has number 8 in the report – and today we have report 23! – that this should be changed. But so far we have not taken up these suggestions. – These are just a few examples. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore our duty to include these legitimate suggestions, to treat them in committees, or to implement them by calling on the members of the government. If that does not bear fruit, then we will again have to discuss the introduction of the public prosecutor's right of initiative. There has never been a discussion with the old coalition partner about this possibility. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot and must not be that the concerns and needs of the citizens of this country, presented by the People's Procuratorate, here in Parliament, in the House of Representatives, are too little or not perceived, even ignored. Ladies' People's Lawyers and Mr. Volksanwalt! Join us in the next debate on 24. Report by the Public Prosecutor's Office on the degree of implementation that we are now planning! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19074	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19096	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! In 1999, 9 186 people took advantage of the public prosecutor's office, 3 971 examination proceedings were initiated and 4 675 examinations were concluded. These figures speak for themselves, and it is up to all of us to thank the Volksanwälten Ingrid Korosec, Dr. Christa Krammerand Horst Schender as well as all the employees of the People's Procuratorate! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The 1999 Public Prosecutor's Report clearly shows how diverse the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office are. However, this is, as it were, only the report to the National Council and the Federal Council, but the People's Procuratorate also reports on seven of the nine Austrian Land Days. The People's Procuratorate is an indispensable institution for the rule of law and democracy. The public prosecutor's independence and objectivity are of great importance to all the political groups in this House and are also widely recognized by all the political groups in this House. – From private experience, I know how quickly and unbureaucratically the lawyers and their employees provide assistance. The People's Procuratorate is open to everyone for free and free. Through the control of the administration, the People's Procuratorate provides services in the rule of law and in democracy. The control of the administration also improves the quality of the administration in Austria. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office makes a significant contribution to the further development of the law. Mrs Frieser has also referred to this point. Under the title "Strengthen democracy", the government programme also includes the suggestion to give the public prosecutors the right to submit legislative proposals if the appropriate need arises in connection with examination. I believe that this is a priority. The number of legal suggestions in Annex 1 to the People's Procuratorate's Report also speaks of this as well as of the fact – we have already heard about it – that in the past all too often suggestions of the Public Procuratorate have been shubbled. The Public Prosecutor's Office is the only institution that has extensive insight into the misunderstandings that exist in the public administration. I therefore believe it is important that the public prosecutorship is also more involved in legal policy issues. The importance of the involvement of the People's Procuratorate in issues of legal policy has become clear to me last week on the occasion of a parliamentary survey by the Socialist Group. The title was: Reorganisation of the law for prosecutors, proposal for the establishment of a state attorney. A high-ranking expert body was invited. Despite the in-depth efforts of the inviting group, the sanctity of the State Advocate's Institute did not really come to light. But who wasn't invited? – That institution that actually has insight into the activities of the public prosecutor’s office, namely the public prosecutor’s office! The Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore appointed for the examination of the public prosecutor's office because it is a law-enforcement authority in the public administration. In the field of justice, 398 examinations were initiated by the Public Prosecutor's Office in 1999. 10 to 15 percent of complaints in the field of justice concern the public prosecutor's activity on a long-term basis. The majority of complaints are not directed against prosecutions by prosecutors, but against the fact that advertisements of injured/affected citizens are returned by the public prosecutor. The public prosecutor's auditing activity usually results in the right of reimbursement. However, if this has not been done correctly, but the criminal proceedings have been brought to an unjust end, the procedure can be continued by directing the Federal Minister as the Supreme Service Supervisory Authority over the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to have the public prosecutor's office issued on 9 March. Cite November 2000: "Volksanwalt Schender was able to determine, in no case in any case in any case, the existence of a ministerial order to terminate the proceedings or to withdraw the ad during all his previous duties of more than 11 years." - Quote. By exempting the prosecutors, citizens would have the right to lodge a complaint with the public prosecutors. And through the exemption of the prosecutors, an authority that operates legibus solutus would be created. That cannot be the goal of our rule of law! And neither can it be a goal to establish conditions in Austria, as in the United States, with special intermediaries such as Kenneth Starr, who lead the rule of law around the nose in a self-evident manner and with the involvement of the media! Finally, I should like to thank the People's Procuratorate once again. The rule of law of Austria and Austrian citizens need you!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19181	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19202	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! The importance of the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office has already been discussed. I can only agree with this view. Mrs Frieser! Less can I follow your announcement that we should measure you by the actions you will implement. – The ÖVP has also been in the government in recent years if I am not deceived, but most have apparently forgotten that. In any case, however, we could also see what has been implemented in the past, and I would like to mention three examples. With regard to these points from the area of Mr Volksanwalt Schender on education, I have also asked questions, and now there are also answers from the Ministry, and these show how little serious the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office are taken. From my point of view, the three points were relatively clear, and there could have been a solution without too big a problem, but in two cases there was a clear response and in one case only the indication that this was quite complicated. It is, as has been said, about the field of education. In the first case, original certificates were refused after modification of the first name for gender conversion. As a result, there was a complaint that discrimination can occur if there is no original certificate, but only a duplicate, and if requested, there is a need to explain why there is only one duplicate. In reply to her question, Ms Gehrer wrote: It's not the only case to get a new original certificate because of gender change. You also get duplicates in other cases, for example when the house burns down. But the question of those concerned or those concerned is still there, namely why those concerned should then be forced to say either the untruth or to declare themselves here in a form that is not necessarily troublesome in the way it is socially unfortunately the state in Austria. That's just not to see. – Refusal number one. Refusal number two concerns a point on which – and this should be considered very quickly – to extend the need for special educational support. That was an autistic child. I have the answer here, I do not know whether you have seen this parliamentary question. We are talking about autistic children, we are talking about children who are severely disabled and whose integration into the labour market can be difficult. There was a mother who found that it would have been very desirable to extend the need for funding to a thirteenth year, because it was only later that the opportunity to learn and the development in recent years was very positive. Adding a year in these areas would have made a lot of sense. The answer from Minister Gehrer was that it is about integrating these people into the world of work, that these people should ultimately be on their own feet and that it is therefore not useful to grant a thirteenth year. – I think that in this particular case, this argument goes pretty far beyond reality. The third point – also known as a drastic point and for years in Austria – is also an abuse, because it is an unequal treatment – is the question of the teaching certificate for the disabled. I do not know to what extent it is known in this House that the disabled are not allowed to study at educational academies because they do not have the opportunity or because they are not granted the right to teach. By the way, this is different at universities, so there is an unequal treatment: This access criterion does not exist for university studies, for educational academies very well. That was the answer that needed to change some of the laws. My specific question was – after you had already pointed out in your report that there are considerations about taking up this proposal – until when this should happen. [[towards the Federal Minister Gehrer, sitting on the government bank]] That was at least a very poor answer: that unfortunately it cannot be said because it is very complicated to draw up the laws. Mrs Frieser! One cannot really be satisfied with the answers of the Ministry of Education and, in particular, the Minister of Education Gehrer. If you take the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office seriously, you should take the suggestions here, as you have said, especially if they are useful – and in these cases it seems to me to be very coherent – quickly and comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19262	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19283	Mr President. Appreciate ladies' lawyers! Estimated Mr. Volksanwalt! If you take the report from the Public Prosecutor's Office in 1999 and look at it in the area of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management – the business unit of Mrs. Volksanwaltin Ingrid Korosec – I notice a bit, Mrs. Volksanwältin, that in the course of the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the real problems are being examined. You can't do anything for that, it depends on how the whole thing is legally configured. As early as November 2000, my consideration was that we should focus more on consumer protection, animal welfare and therefore human protection. It might be something that one should really consider intensively that one comes to test procedures in the field of animal welfare in a way that controls procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a control commission of the European Commission in Austria. It has reviewed the attitude of pigs and calves, and there has even been a horrific view of how the animals are kept in Austria – for example, illegal as regards Community law: The cut-off of the teeth is subject to no restrictions. . I would like to save you other things, which are also contained in this report. Finally, it will be dramatic in the following place: An inspecting veterinary physician indicated that he would normally have examined the records of the drugs used and the mortality in sick and injured pigs, but had no opportunity to do so due to the time limits of the inspection visit plan. I think that we should think intensively about what role the public prosecutor could play here in the future on such important issues as animal protection and thus also human protection. In Austria, laws are not complied with, EU standards are not complied with, ladies and gentlemen, controls are prevented and reports and controls are manipulated – this is also reflected in this report. I think that animal welfare in agriculture would be the prerequisite for getting the meat scandals under control. I do not want a reply now, ladies and my lord from the People's Procuratorate, and suggest the following: Let us perhaps consider until the debate on the 2002 budget, how we could make it legal to address these important issues of consumer protection, animal welfare and human protection. I believe that the People's Procuratorate could provide valuable help here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19329	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19359	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! The report of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year 1999 is extensive, it shows very impressively a really great work and an excellent commitment. You, ladies and gentlemen, deserve to hear – at least in the opinion of our club – recognition not only for work but also for the drafting of the report. There is a proverb, a principle which reads: Do good and talk about it! If you were working and would not be documented, then no one would know what the Public Prosecutor's Office in Austria last moved. Dear Dr. Herbs! I heard your contribution, it was very interesting. I'd almost say, a little bit miss the subject. I think you don't know what the People's Procuratorate really does, can and should do. You know, I don't think it's exactly what you've been talking about. I mean, there's actually no connection here. It is only unfortunate that a lawyer so explores this in the consideration. It was also a speaker here today who called on this government to act. That's good, this government is not a challenge. But let's be aware of one thing, Dr. Mertel: This is the 1999 report. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: These are suggestions!]] That's where, as you think, we had a wonderful government community. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The Federal Government is acting quite differently today!]] All that is in it is touching from that time, and yet we stand by it because it is important that all this is shown. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: These are proposals, and the government is quite different! You don't understand!]] We read here that in 1999 9 186 people found their way to the People's Procuratorate. I would like to say that this is a great achievement, that it is good that you have given these people hearings, that these people have been able to express themselves there and that you may have saved them high costs because they did not have to go to lawyers or other institutions. That's a good job as a whole. You have also carried out 4 675 examination procedures with your employees, which is also a tangible performance. If you read in this report, you can see that he is going over all areas of life. It is, of course, the area of socialism, because there are also the most original human feelings, needs and expectations. As it goes through all areas, you have shown a lot, you have stimulated a lot, and it has also been taken up and taken over very much, but not only in the field of social relations, but also in the field of interpersonal relations, especially when it comes to relativizing the neighborhood disputes a bit or to bringing the encounter with the communities into a new light. – These are things that you can say are important. They showed flaws. Of course, we will also be very likely to refer to all of this in the further work. It is important for us that you carry out your task here in such a way that there is generally an impartial approach – this has not yet been questioned by anyone – that, as I said earlier, every citizen has been granted access and that, above all – and should be said to – people come not only to you, that is, to where you have your place of action, but also that you go outside, to the capitals of the state, to the suburbs of the district, and there also to those who may not be so mobile or who would take a trip to Vienna. In this sense, you have done valuable work for this country and the people of that country in 1999 and to this day, and have also given some good advice and sometimes a good advice to politics. – Thank you for your work!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19423	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19445	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! At the same time, I would like to thank you not only for this twenty-third report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but above all for your work over many years. Its institution is an important instrument of civil rights for Austrian citizens, and it is a kind of last hope for many of the abuses of Austrian citizens. But it is not just that, but I believe that this annual report can and should be an important job for responsible politicians. They always show solutions that policy should implement. Mrs Mertel! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I've been waiting for it!]] I will now look at two examples ahead to the current government's implementation. It is about two areas which I have been pursuing for years because they have fallen into the area of my political activity. The first problem you mentioned, too, Mrs Mertel. It is about the problems of identifying the need for care of severely handicapped children, in the 1999 report, based on an example from the country of Tyrol, a truly sad, severely handicapped child, for which I too have tried to work. Mrs Mertel, you may have forgotten that it was the Freedom Party that it was my colleague Helene Partik-Pablé and I who, when introducing the Care Money Act, already argued that this age limit for disabled children should be removed. It was also our liberties who have repeatedly submitted these requests, and it was your government, Mrs Mertel, who has not done anything. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Volksanwalt! I am happy to tell you today that I have received the news from the office of Mr. Haupt, that there is already a draft proposal that will go beyond the review in the near future and that will also have an effect on the country's care laws. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Congratulations!]] – So much about the work of the new Federal Government in relation to the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[In the case of the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I would also like to mention another area that has been in my heart for years. It is about that the public prosecutorship – not for the first time – enters care homes for the nationally uniformly designed and consumer-friendly home contracts. Since the beginning of the 1990s, Austria has been trying to find solutions at the national level, at the federal level, without any concrete results. We know that old-age care and care care are a matter of country, that individual federal states have partly settled this area, and that other federal states are less good. We also know that there has been a working group in the Social Ministry since autumn 1999 under the direction of Mrs. Ministerial Councillor Hönigsperger, who has been specifically involved in the development of a model home contract and has already presented it in the liaison office of the federal states. There's a call right away, and it's been trying to block him again. But we're going to work there quickly, you already have the way in mind. We believe that there will be an agreement in this area until summer. I also know from other sources that the Ministry of Justice is specifically working on implementation in this area, possibly or most likely in the context of civil law. It's always been a big concern to me. I am glad that we are here, as in other areas, too, trying to work out the shortcomings, the shortcomings, the failure of the old, socially democratically dominated government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19504	Mr Volksanwalt Schender has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19526	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will try to be as brief as possible in view of the advanced hour. Mrs Mag. Frieser! The legitimate suggestions are, of course, always a concern child of the People's Procuratorate. Only recently did I get a very excited letter from a lady from the house to the People's Procuratorate. A Member of Parliament has strongly complained about the massive disadvantages of individual citizens due to the Property Sharing Act. It's a huge pig, and something has to be done at last. I had to reply to the honourable Member that we have been drawing the attention of the House to this problem for 15 years and that we are constantly pointing out that there are serious inconsistencies and great injustices here. But so far the House has failed to take steps to this end. I would therefore strongly recommend taking a closer look at the list in the annex to the People's Prosecution's Report. It says a lot that it would be worth being picked up. Mrs Mag. Frieser! The right of initiative would, of course, offer lawyers the opportunity to address current problems directly to the National Council or to the Landday, and to confront Members more directly the problems of citizens than is possible through the annex to a comprehensive report, which may not be turned through by anyone who gets his hands on it to the last page. Mrs. Dr. Papházy! The improvement of the quality of administration is, of course, one of the main tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are not examining the authorities in order to harass them and to prove to anyone maliciously a mistake committed, but we are trying to protect the citizens from developments in the administration which have an overwhelming bureaucracy to the effect that leads to civil infriendly behaviour and, at the end of the day, cause a little-citizen activity of our authorities. By showing such shortcomings and errors, we are trying to mobilise the supervisory authority to achieve a more civil and more civilized administration. The Procuratorate is examined with relatively great success by the Public Procuratorate. If it is found that an advertisement has been wrongly filed, although sufficient evidence has been drawn up by the police or the Gendarmerie, then it has always succeeded in re-establishing a procedure by the Minister of Justice through the Ministry of Justice. In this respect, it is very important that there is this right of guidance, because sometimes easy-to-use displays relive in this way. It is only through the law of the Minister of Justice that it is possible to update those ads that are often a matter of urgency. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Brosz! The three cases are only a small tip of the iceberg. There are times and again cases where we address legitimate concerns from citizens to the ministry, and yet our suggestions are not – often incomprehensible – complied with, although in many cases it would cost nothing at all. Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to draw your attention to such cases so that you can make them the basis of initiatives in the Committee, in the plenary session of the National Council, at Question Time in order to bring about a rethinking of ministers who are often inaccurate. Often it is, I have to justifiably say, not even the ministers who are so incomprehensible. It is often the bureaucracy that insists on an iron point of view and subjugates to the Minister a letter of reply, which he is not happy to remember afterwards, because he has often signed something which has not been so much in line with his own inner conviction. It would therefore also have to be influenced by ministers in that they would have to have a little more courage to give their officials the forehead to face up to their officials and not necessarily sign officials' opinions, as is unfortunately the case again and again and again, when the Minister tells me: Well, what am I supposed to do, my officials are quite different, I would personally behave differently. – This is not rare, but very common. Dr. Herbs! Animal welfare is, of course, one of the competences of the People's Procuratorate. To the extent that there are appropriate national laws and complaints about the handling of these national laws come in those seven federal states for which we are responsible, Mrs Krammer's report will be examined. If you want to grant us further competences in the field of animal welfare, it is up to you to take appropriate initiatives here in the National Council and to provide us with such responsibilities to cover for me. In any case, we are happy to be ready, as far as we are still in use, to take over these activities in addition. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful – also on behalf of my two colleagues, and above all on behalf of our staff – for the many kind and praiseworthy words you have found for the work of our house. I do not want to hide that we still have some open concerns, of which we would like them to continue to be observed and operated by you, such as the possibility of participation of the prosecutors in the committees, such as the right to apply – which is, in any case, provided for in the government programme – or the legal anchoring of deadlines for answering requests. In this respect, we also urgently need the support of the National Council, so that some ministers cannot press for months before answering uncomfortable questions. Finally, I do not want to repeat my Ceterum senseo in recent years either. There is an increasing lack of legal protection in all areas in which disbursements are no longer subject to the public prosecutor's control. Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Fierce, also noted that there has been an unfortunate lack of legal protection, because the Court of Auditors may review these distributed legal entities, but the citizen does not have the opportunity to complain to the public about these distributed legal areas. It is against these concerns that the opinion of the then Minister of Finance was strictly opposed. ==References== The then Minister of State Edlinger called the proposals unnecessary. In his view, the examination of the complaints concerning distributed legal entities would contradict the meaning and purpose of the exclusion of those legal entities. The audit of the Court of Auditors is entirely sufficient. Consequently, the sense of exclusion would essentially lie in the elimination of the possibility of individual complaint to the public prosecutor's office. The opinion was welcomed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The citizen can go on the civil right path and complain to the powerful state or to the distributed legal entity if he believes he has been disadvantaged by him. This is not exactly a very bourgeois attitude, I must say. If you say: if you do not match these distributed legal entities, you may continue to pay off the debts of these distributed legal entities, but you must process against the state power if you are not satisfied with their activity – then this is proof that social cold has not been invented until the year 2000. This "Edlinger doctrine" still applies de facto today. I would like to ask that this letter by Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance of 1997, be made once again in the Ministry of Finance and that it be checked whether this Edlinger doctrine must continue to have its validity intact or whether it should not be taken into account in the interests of more citizens and civil kindness. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this reference to civil law is totally contrary to what the Ministry of Justice has been trying to achieve in recent years, namely to reduce, reduce the number of court cases and to clean up out-of-court cases. Since 1977, there has been an institution specialized in the work as a mediator. This mediation could continue to be carried out free of charge for citizens in the fields of distributed lawyers, if we were given the opportunity to do so. I would like to ask you very cordially to keep in mind this consideration and to allow the citizens of the people seeking assistance and the public administration by the lawyers. I thank you for your praise. I thank you for your support and understanding for our work and wish you a lot of success in your work.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19616	Next speaker is Mrs. Volksanwalt, Dr. Krammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19637	Mr President. Mrs. Colleague! Mr President, I should like to thank Ladies and gentlemen. The thanks for both of us have already been expressed by Mr Schender, our chairman. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to give you a very brief look at the maintenance advance law. I would ask you, look at this, remember the situation of women and the situation of children who depend on it and wait for these procedures to finally end and they come to their money. I would like to ask you to look at the public prosecutor's proposals in depth and to look at them. - I wanted to tell you that. Very briefly to Mrs. Achatz – as a colleague of herbs said something about animal welfare, she told me as a Burgenlander about it with a slinger: Take care of the dog from the climate, the "Grolli"! The People's Procuratorate is supposed to take care of it. Mrs Achatz! You're in the main book... [[Abg. Achatz: The Lord of Herbs!]] No, you called the "Grolli" and you made me like this: So, now, as a Burgenlander, take care of the dog from the climate. – Well, listen, Mrs. Achatz: The "Grolli" is in Burgenland, and I assure you, the "Grolli" is better in Burgenland than the liberals in Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The "Grolli" is going badly!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19710	Both the debate on the public prosecutor's office and the debate on the "Grolli" has now been completed. No further words are available. We shall come to the vote. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is of no use, we must vote on the report of the People's Procuratorate III-39 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of this report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights to give this sign. – Despite all the excitement, this is unanimously decided. 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (272 of the Supplements): Headquarters Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the European Centre for the Observation of Racism and Xenophobia and Appendices (398 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19768	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. First speaker, Mr. Dr. Caspar. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19796	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! All followers of "Grolli"! May I invite you to turn your attention to the next item on the agenda! Austria, shortly after joining the European Union, as other countries are trying to get at least a European institution to Austria, has been successful. The European Council, by a regulation of June 1997, adopted and established the "European body for the observation of racism and xenophobia" based in Vienna. And this job began its activity in Vienna about a year later. However, the official opening of this post – some will still remember – took place only in April of the previous year. Its task is to provide objective, reliable and comparable data on racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism at European level, both to the European Community and its Member States, in order to enable Member States to do something about these trends, and on the other hand to engage in a dialogue between the Member States and the institutions of the European Union in order to enable an exchange of experience on measures against racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism and to link it with the hope that effective action will be taken against them. High house! Today, I almost want to say, at last, that it is possible to ratify the office agreement for this European body. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You'll see!]] The Foreign Office completed the agreement in the summer of 2000, and the Council of Ministers decided. However, the main committee held two meetings, on 4 May. ==References== November last year, with the votes of the majority of the government, refused to ratify it if not previously the head of this body, Dr. Winkler, justified on the one hand the statements she made to the European Parliament in the context of a report, and, on the other hand, if she did not, on the other hand, justify the fact that no members of this government were invited to the official opening in April 2000. High house! What is the reason why it is worth addressing this history again? – The reason is that the action of the majority of governments in this matter is just too valid – "serious" is perhaps exactly the wrong word – to be quite exemplary, to harm not only the reputation of this government, which may not have been too high abroad, but above all the country. [[Abg. Young: You tried to do this!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you wish to confirm the views that are partly available abroad about this government, You may call these prejudices – if you really want to consolidate these prejudices, then go on in foreign policy, then in European policy you do not ratify such a position, because it is not right for you to do what their leader says. This is exactly the form of foreign policy that harms us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have tried to point out at both meetings, where you have meant that you have to take your feelings into account by your majority. I also understood the reply of the Foreign Minister during the second of these meetings to the fact that she did not reveal the loyalty to the government groups, but also made it clear that the foreign office felt that this Treaty was in place for ratification. I am glad that we are ready today, and I can say to my group: We support the ratification of this Presidency Convention without any precondition, because we believe that this European body is useful and serves our Austrian interests, ladies and gentlemen, to observe racism and xenophobia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We would very much invite you from the government groups to put Austria's interest in your personal feelings in comparable cases in future, because in foreign policy it is not about what you would have wanted personally, but about what is useful to Austria. This must be a priority!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19870	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19892	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was indeed a way with a bit more serious obstacles to the ratification of this office-building agreement – but I think that for some other reason than you mentioned it, Mr. Eins. All political groups were clear from the outset that it was not a question of preventing the activity of an observation centre against racism and xenophobia. Not at all! This has no place in Europe, it has no place in Austria. We all agreed from the beginning. What it was all about was that there were difficulties between the head of this post against racism and xenophobia and the Austrian Federal Government – I would say almost: the Republic of Austria. In our view, it was therefore the right way to get rid of these differences. I think this last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 1st reading. That's exactly what happened on December. Both sides have put on the table what bothered her. There was not only the question of the invitation of Mrs. Foreign Minister – or we say: the invitation of Mrs. Foreign Minister – to the opening ceremony. There were other events, such as a letter from Mrs Winkler, whom I questioned, to the chairman of the Committee on the Interior of the European Parliament, in which she writes that she calls a special judgment of an Austrian court a miscarriage of Austrian justice. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, none of us should allow the judgment of an independent judge to be described as miscarriage. All these were questions we also discussed with her. In my opinion, this was a good, high-quality discussion, which was conducted in precisely this clarity, clarity and openness, as one should actually do. Criticism is to be expressed where it belongs, where the parties sit at a table. And I believe that the Committee on Foreign Affairs was the right place to do this. I heard from her afterwards that she saw this as a good debate. She was happy. We were also pleased because we too were able to express our criticism and, as a result, we can now also open the way for ratification of this Presidency agreement. I can therefore say from my personal perspective and from the point of view of the ÖVP: It was right to postpone twice – not to decide, but to postpone – a debate with the head of this Racism Centre and thus pave the way for a normal cooperation between Austria and this Observatory against racism and xenophobia. We therefore agree. And I think we should behave like this again in similar cases, as Mr One said.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19938	The next speaker is Mr Jung. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e19959	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At last, the ratification of the Headquarters Agreement puts a clear end to a painful development that has been affecting the relationship between both partners for over a year. After the conversation with the head of this post, I assume that this end point will be welcomed by both sides and can mark a new beginning at the same time. "Can" I say quite consciously, because I unfortunately have signals that the positive climate between the two can now be disrupted again from the outside – but I would like to address this later. In fact, the Centre has already started its work much earlier, in July 1998. The then Federal Government explicitly welcomed this. A large number of intermediate services have been provided by Austria: Payment of 50 percent of the rental costs – around 1 million Schilling – last year, adaptation costs of one million Schilling, exemption of fees and charges – 1999 about 560 000 S –, treatment of staff such as diplomats, although it would have to be discussed in the context of the EU at all, whether this would not create new privileges. In addition, the city of Vienna takes over 35 percent of the costs. We were, of course, annoyed when Mrs Winkler spoke and – literally – complained of a lack of cooperation between the government and very limited support – especially after she presented herself shortly after the new government had started and without evidence that the new government was a dangerous precedent in Europe. "There became a really bad one" and similar kindnesses were to be heard. However, today, and with the knowledge from the conversation with Mrs Winkler, it is clear that Mrs Winkler's sharpest formulations were only taken over by her superior department and came from the Board of Directors under the chairmanship of Mr Kahn in Paris. However, it was unbearable for every Austrian with self-respect for the opening of the Authority in April of the previous year. At that time the gross rudeness was allowed to simply invite the members of the government of the host country. The Foreign Minister, who, in order to avoid an Eclat, was accompanied by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, was treated in an unheard-of manner in silent and civilized states. One – and I say that consciously – threatened to regret the participation of the representatives of the host country and the main financier in an e-mail on the eve of the ceremony. – Many people, said Ms Winkler, will feel hurt. I regret that one does not accept these feelings. – That's what the astounded citizens of this country got to hear. According to these words, what the Austrians had, it seems that Mrs Winkler was not interested in. Under these conditions, it is obvious that we MEPs, as the representatives of the people, called for a clear discussion before ratification. What happened at that time cannot leave anyone in space with some kind of self-esteem. Fortunately, the talk brought the necessary clarification, and Mrs Winkler has stated several times in the meantime that the situation in Austria has not changed in any way since the change of government and we are quite good compared with other countries. - So far, so good. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We hope for good cooperation. However, there have been signs in recent days that some do not like this improved situation. For example, Mr Cherribi spoke in the Council of Europe and declared that he had information that the Observatory in Vienna would prevent the exercise of its activities. The fact that the sources of information for him are in France is only on the verge of information. He literally spoke of the cries for help from Mrs Winkler and a Mr. Ed van Thijn. On the same day, also in Strasbourg, the Danish colleague Mr Gjellerod, who was also negatively known to us, sought the conversation with the Austrians. He would be concerned that in Austria there were so many press proceedings, slanders against journalists. He was also in Vienna, where he probably spoke with the SPÖ, but not with the representatives of the government parties. Also his reference to the threatening situation in Austria comes from France. There he also received the tip to talk to two well-known lawyers. "By chance" these were Mr. Charim and Mr. Lansky, the latter, among other things, negatively known from the famous Jarolim Protocol. I remember it was about how to put on more SPÖ judges at the time. This Mr Gjellerod, who probably received the information he wanted, is the author of the Council of Europe's annual report on the threat of democracy in Europe by extremist parties. This report appeared by chance in the previous year shortly before the failure of the SP/VP negotiations and contained a passage that explicitly warns democratic parties of any cooperation with the most dangerous threat to democracy in Europe. These dangerous threats include the Swiss People's Party, the strongest party in Switzerland, including the FPÖ. He admitted to me that he had never spoken to the accused, not to have been in Austria, nor to have any evidence. As the only concrete point, he then led the convict of the letterbombender in Austria, compared to a long list of events throughout Europe. I assume that he has received a clear and positive response from Mrs Winkler in his inquiries on the developments this year in Austria. This would certainly be helpful for future cooperation, because if we see what is to be observed and recorded in the European environment in relevant incidents, we need not only not be ashamed of the democratic climate in Austria, but we can be proud of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20037	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. The clock is set to 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20058	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I thought that my two previous speakers would say about what they said. You have defended exactly what I once called a pretty sad game for a very formal decision on a seat agreement. Mr Spindelegger! If you say that it was not about the job, but about the difficulties between the Head of the Austrian Federal Government and the Austrian Federal Government, I wonder: What does this have to do with the office agreement? The office agreement has something to do with the post, but not with the head. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Every place is guided by people!]] So your logic – and I have already said this in the Committee – is a very formal act of an agreement of office, which we also conclude with other international organisations, in order to injunctify the fact that the head of this post is quoted in the committee, which is already a procedure that has been unique in this House so far. Even if you did not want to say so, this impression arose both domestically and abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: It wasn't like that! You know!]] Mr Spindelegger, it was very likely that this was the case, for you were the first to make the request for a postponement and to say: Of course we want to agree! The picture that arises is that the government fractions say: If someone in Austria is in office and perhaps not quite the same opinion as we are, then we have to talk about it first, then perhaps we also have to put it in space, whether we are going to conclude this seat agreement at all, we also have to put it in space – in such an inadvertent way – whether we want to pay the money for it, and at least always emphasize how much money it gets! This impression has arisen. The image that foreign and domestic people and those people who want people with different languages, different origins to live well together here had to make of Austria, which produced the fact of government almost exactly a year ago, exactly this picture seemed to confirm that a party was brought to the government, which is just such resentments. You have proved this with this approach again. You are now saying that this would not have been the case, but you would only have called for a dialogue that would have taken place. No one had anything to object to a dialogue, but to injunctify it with the decision of a seat agreement, that is not all right, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: You already!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You're confusing something!]] Mr Spindelegger! They also accuse Mrs Beate Winkler of criticizing the Pelinka judgment, the appointment of the Minister of Justice and other points. Can you remember what she said to us in the committee? . It has written this to the request of the European Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: She's not working on a call!]] Let a European body, when asked by those who have also set up them, say: No, thank you, I'm here at the office in the city, in the country where they don't want me to say something, so I'm not saying anything about the country. – Is this your understanding of a European body for the observation of racism? I don't think I can imagine that. Then the place should not be placed anywhere in Europe, but – I don't know – somewhere on the moon, where it might then see better, things can be looked more closely, and there no one speaks of whether they are allowed to make such statements or not. Your argument went empty and only proved that you are not willing to listen to legitimate criticism – and similar to what Mrs Winkler wrote, was then also in the White Report. You didn't want to hear that either, we know. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] For example, the questions relating to the Minister of Justice, you know that very well! I am glad that we will finally decide on this office agreement – about half a year after it was possible – four months later. I am also glad because Austria is only about in the middle of the field, when it comes to the question of how good people of different origins, different languages live together. Last week, the Eurobarometer survey was published, which Mrs Winkler already spoke confidentially in the Committee and showed how well integration works. Unfortunately, we are not among the best. Only 52 percent – a majority – of the Austrians find it good to live in a multicultural society. We are in the middle of this. So I wish that this job could work very well in the direction – as Mrs Winkler also said – to change the images in the minds and to achieve a more positive attitude to society in this area through better education measures. Unfortunately, we have already heard today that there will probably be concerns that exactly where there has been additional posts in schools, an additional quota of teachers for integration classes, multiservices for mother tongue teaching, should be saved. It is precisely where it is necessary to start, so that the overall level of education is improved, so that the population living in Austria as a whole gets a more positive picture, a more positive attitude, so that in the next few years it is no longer just 52 percent, but soon 80, 90, 100 percent, who are talking positively about living in a multicultural society, and so that such processes as around this office seat agreement no longer happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20164	Mr Spindelegger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. I expressly refer to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20188	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek has claimed that Mrs Winkler's appearance in front of the committee was, as it were, junctuated with the requirement to ratify the office agreement only after that. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: That was the way it was!]] – This is wrong! ==References== In November 2000 Jean Kahn, the head of the Board of Directors, was asked to President Fischer – I quote: "I ask for a very clear assurance that no link exists and will exist between the ratification of the Headquarters Agreement and the invitation to the Director and any comments made by her before the Committee." As a result, all the groups of the House have – you too! – the guarantee that there is no junkim.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20239	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20260	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I do not think it cheap to focus a political conflict on a person, so I do not want to address the accusations against the head of the Observatory in my remarks. I am only seeking to understand that, in view of the racist atavisms, there is a certain sensitivity of the European countries, especially those countries affected by the worst racist regime, and that this is not to be underestimated. I would therefore like to deal with the content a little in my remarks. There is now a first annual report of the European Monitoring Center to examine the state of racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism in the 15 Member States of the European Union. I would like to add: He doesn't save any land, and I think it's a good thing. The facts are – I have selected only a few examples randomly and unsystemically, without a claim to completeness – that, for example, in Germany, the number of crimes from racist or xenophobic motives in 1999 was 10 037 cases in total, with more than 66 percent of these crimes falling into the category of propaganda crimes. Although there has been a decline in the total number of racistly motivated crimes, there has been an increase in violence. The number of anti-Semitic damages of Jewish cemeteries was at least 47 cases. Austria also considers that the 1999 elections and the electoral techniques applied by FPÖ, in particular the methods of xenophobia and racism against immigrants, are also taken into account. It also takes note of the opinion of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who criticises the reluctance of asylum seekers in Austria. In Finland, for example, almost 60 percent of all African immigrants surveyed reported that they have already been victims of discrimination on the labour market. It is therefore very diffuse and very difficult to see. They aim at individuals but also at groups and reach a different extent from country to country. There are groups in all Member States which are more vulnerable to racism, discrimination or exclusion. An interesting section is also the area of racism and hatred on the Internet. Thus, in 1995 there was only one website with a call to racial hatred. In November 1997, the centre already recorded 600. In 1999 there were already 1,429 websites on racial hatred and anti-Semitism or those that spread neonazist theses. I therefore believe that the fight against racism and discrimination is important, that government, public authorities and also private institutions should not only have the opportunity, but also the duty to act individually or jointly against discrimination or to prevent racist violations. And that often does not require constitutional or legal guarantees, but it needs a broad field of action in politics and practice, it needs education, awareness-raising, information and communication campaigns. An anti-racist attitude does not arise spontaneously, but it is the subject of education, i.e. a learning process. In particular, the role of the media in combating racism and xenophobia is very, very important. In Austria, numerous initiatives have been launched, by the Ministry of Education, but also by some NGOs such as the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights, there are training programmes for police officers, there is an Austrian network against racism, there are also numerous measures by the EU, on the part of the European Parliament, but also in Article 13 a number of anti-racist measures are expressly normized. In conclusion, I believe that the current developments have shown very clearly that this European body for the observation of racism and xenophobia, the latest, in fact decentralized establishment of the European Union based in the heart of Europe, is an indispensable institution and that the self-definition of this EUMC, namely to give people positive examples of how to live in cultural diversity, how to deal with conflicts productively, is a very, very positive approach, that the intention to set up a knowledge network, the pan-European information on racism and xenophobia, is significant and that this EUMC can become an important tool for dialogue with civil society and also has an important function as an early warning system. A team of nearly 20 highly qualified and highly motivated persons will ensure that these goals are achieved. To this end, this new, recent EU body in Austria is very successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20325	The next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20346	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! After this debate, I would like to stress once again from the ÖVP that the latest EU institution, the monitoring body for racism and xenophobia, is unfortunately the only EU institution in Vienna or Austria, but that we are very happy about its establishment here. I would also like to point out, however, that Austria is the seat of several international institutions. I think we have to point this out very well, because it is now presented as if there were only this international institution in Austria and it is not welcome to us. We have many such institutions, and that is the latest. I mean, after the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that everyone will say that it is welcome to us. I would like to thank the Minister very much. I think there has never been any doubt that this ratification is taking place. The Minister has always been committed to this. That was perfectly clear! But we also have to be honest in dealing with each other. There were irritations at the opening. There has been uncertainty in the population. Many could not understand or accept that a particular observation centre for racism and xenophobia was said to the Austrians and to representatives of our population, to the government: In our house you are not welcome! – I think it was important to clarify this. I am very glad that Mrs Winkler also contributed from her side to the elimination of these reservations and uncertainties in the discussions. I would also like to point out that the delay was not because we wanted to postpone it, but because there was a conflict of time. We had a special meeting, and the committee meeting, for which there was a commitment by Dr Winkler, could not take place at the same time as the special meeting. This led to a delay in this conversation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Mrs. Colleague! I must tell you that I deeply regret that you – of course, as an opposition – have trimmed the whole in an extremely negative direction, that this is junctimized. In this context, I would like to quote a press release by Mrs Stoisits: "Blue-black witch trial against EUMC director Winkler." In view of this, I have to ask you: How do we deal with each other? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] And then it is precisely the signals that my colleague Jung mentioned that a question to Secretary-General Swimmer Austria is still under consideration in the Council of Europe, that we are making it difficult for us to support them and so on. – I think that you have to take your nose, think about it, and say how far you are in the interests of Austria. That is why, as I believe, we are all invited to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] At the opening it was said that this Observatory feels like an eye and ear of the European Union. – For a long time it was felt in Austria that this eye was only aimed at Austria and the ears only heard in Austria. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The eye was blind and the ear was deaf!]] That is why we are very glad that this Observatory – and this is also reflected in the report already quoted by Mr Brosz – now has an eye and an ear in all Member States. I would like to welcome once again the fact that we have this observation centre in Austria. We will call for the good cooperation that Mrs Beate Winkler has promised us, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on Human Rights. I would like to quote the Chancellor's words again: We MEPs will also be vigilant inside!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20405	The next one on the list of speakers is Mr Haigermoser. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20426	High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is a member of the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. That was clear from the beginning. Mrs Lunacek! As you have described it, it does not work! This is not the place to observe racism in Austria, but in Europe! You worked this out differently. - I wanted to say that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The concern about events in all European countries, in particular a reprehensible recent event in Norway, must also keep us in a position to make a further commitment to this place. However, it was also necessary to hold the above-mentioned debate with the head of the body, Mrs Beate Winkler, not as a junkim – which has already been carried out by the speakers of the government groups – but in order to signal the willingness to dialogue. With us this dialogue was available at any time. In order not to give rise to any legends, it is quite interesting to mention Mrs Beate Winkler's letter to the President of the National Council, in which she wrote to the President of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. In November 2000, she said that she was looking forward to the exchange of views with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but she regretd not being able to see this date. – That’s it, my Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of this non-opportune notice by Mrs Beate Winkler, a different date was then set. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who stand for a functioning EU body on Austrian soil, as we do, must also be allowed to debate it, as is the case with the finances made available from tax funds for this EU body. Mr Spindelegger and others have already mentioned the sum which is legitimately spent on the part of Austria. In the Official Journal of the Community, following the Court of Auditors report of the Community, the following shall be read: "The examination of the commitments for the financial year showed that the provisions in force were not properly applied. A total of 25 percent of commitments (0.7 million euros) are due to errors. This affects Title I – personnel expenditure – with EUR 0.2 million (no proper contracts), Title II – physical expenditure – with EUR 0.3 million (no proper contracts and no market analysis) and Title III – operational expenditure – with EUR 0.2 million (inadequate procedures for the selection of contracting partners, missing or incorrect order notes). In view of this, we will probably be allowed to debate this day, without any doubting that we are against the area of racism, ladies and gentlemen. It is all about taxpayers, and it is important to manage it properly! That is why Mrs Beate Winkler, who is responsible to taxpayers for these funds, must also be justified. It is therefore not possible to widen the cover of silence on these inconsistencies identified by the European Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now a brief comment per futuro, for the future: In a "Kurier" article, recent dates can be read in connection with Mrs Beate Winkler – I quote – as follows: "A "clear political orientation and designation of interests" is required by the Director of the only EU institution based in Vienna on questions of enlargement. The Austrians, like Germans, Belgians and Luxembourg, are extremely skeptical of the immediate reception of workers from neighbouring countries in Eastern Europe." It is lamented that the citizens are skeptical! Ladies and gentlemen! A ban on discussion will not be possible from this point of view! We will also have to name the concerns and needs of the voter of this country in the future, without wearing Mrs Beate Winkler and her place of dissent. That should be clearly stated once! I should like to quote another quote in connection with a highly interesting conference by the Bertelsmann Research Group on Policy. I quote: "Until now, the European Union has developed without a significant regulatory debate. Today, the agreement is on a point where the debate on basic issues is essential. What Europe should do and how it should be written, what people expect and what Europe's societies hold together. – Answers to this are the key to Europe's future." Ladies and gentlemen! That's it! We will, of course, have this discussion under this pre-text, and we will not let anyone do it, because our own freedom begins with the freedom of the other! Ladies and gentlemen! Under this title, there will also be discussions about European development and what citizens want, and they are not to be banned or hindered by anyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20513	The next speaker is Mrs Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20532	A brief comment to Mr Spindelegger. Mr Spindelegger! I take note that you say that this procedure was not a junkim. However, I note that you did not give your consent to the Headquarters Agreement until after the discussion with Mrs. Winkler. Therefore, suggest another term that describes this more accurately!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20559	No one is reporting on this. That is why the debate is closed. I do not have a wish for a final word to be reported. We therefore come to the vote, and we vote on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty and its Annexes in 272 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign in this regard. – I note that the State Treaty in question has been approved unanimously. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the financial statements (III-60 of the Supplements) for 1999 (439 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20605	We come to item 11 of the agenda. There is no need for reporting. The first statement of a counterword lies with me by Mr Magistrate. Kogler before. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20633	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! It is already 22.33 a.m. and I will try to talk shorter than 5 minutes. Perhaps that could be an example for others. However, I am going to use half a minute for the suggestion that we might have to think more about how we put together our agenda packages in the presidential one. These are very important points which come very late. On the matter itself: The Court of Auditors presented the 1999 accounts. A smart finance minister always keeps a little bit of room to be able to talk about a point landing afterwards. This time it was even overly sharp, namely by 1.9 billion schilling, so to speak, under the point. I consider this – contrary to the press – no longer to be commentable, but to be a relatively normal process. I believe that Mr Edlinger, who, contrary to the list of speakers, will speak, as I believe, but who will speak, has quite cleverly, as it belongs to every smart finance minister. With regard to the matter itself, it might be interesting, since this is the last execution year of the Red and Black Government, to keep up with and address only this point, and to keep aside the budget forecasts which are usually made at this point in time in the short term. . I would like to remind you that the red and black government has taken some measures in the so-called savings packages or consolidation packages, which in part had a precursor character in those measures that we have now criticised so much and which also criticised the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] But not so brutal, exactly! That would not have been so helpful for your position, Mr Edlinger. However, the point is that some structural measures have still failed. This, of course, is also the responsibility of the ÖVP, which never wanted to know anything after. The Court of Auditors, when presenting its 1999 accounts, once again refers to how the consolidation packages behaved. He has even checked compliance with the consolidation efforts, and see, only the black ministries have shown themselves in a number of cases when they fail to comply with the consolidation objectives! It is worth being held back! On the other hand, the SPÖ also has to do with politics. The expenditure measures have also taken more socially weak measures, as the Court of Auditors calls them, and we have always criticized them. But we have also missed some measure on the part of revenue, if consolidation has already been announced. For example, the old coalition has done nothing to change the tax system. In this respect, at least one step has now been taken, but it is also more poor and not going to introduce what is preliminated, so certainly not 2 billion schilling. One last: The Court of Auditors, the first of these legislative periods, had just been invited to address this issue to Mr. Dr. Fassleven, then still Minister. And what turned out? – Mr Fassleven was glad to report that, according to the supposed new government agreement of the red and black coalition, which was still in government negotiations at the time – and it was just this day that she finally broke up – interception hunters should have been financed extra-budgetary. – So in the review, there are quite a few negative points to note what I wanted to do at this point again. For the future, I believe that structural reforms – including the planned measures that have now been taken – are far too little taken into account. I am afraid that we will need more so-called savings packages, because they will have far too little investment in sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20690	The next speaker is Mr Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20708	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The 1999 financial statements are not a normal annual accounts, since they are at least the annual accounts of the last year of a legislative period and thus the annual accounts of an election year, as we know, and there has been a certain tradition in the past that compliance with the budgets in these years, after having been discussed very late thereafter, has not always been as precise as in 1999 at least. You can congratulate former Finance Minister Rudolf Edlinger on this, as I believe. He also achieved, at least in the election year, that a certain discipline was held, as the colleague of the Green Group has already found. As we know, he was 1.9 billion schilling below the forecast budget estimate, and there was a net deficit reduction of 0.5 percent to 2 percent. This was possible, although the nominal growth in the budget year was forecast by 4.5 per cent, even though I remember correctly, but the real, nominal growth rate was only 2.8 per cent and the income situation was down, which, in convergence, in turn resulted in a low growth in corporate income. Nevertheless, this has succeeded because the employment policy of this Federal Government has worked and has increased employment. Above all, it has also succeeded because interest rates were favourable and because inflation could be reduced to a historically low level, which the current Federal Government could only take a great lead! Of course, the distribution of income in Austria was also much more just at the time, and the real increase in income of 3.5 percent in employees' incomes has caused a real boost in purchasing power for the economy, which is not the case at present. The final result was anyway: We had a reduced tax rate and a net deficit down to 2 percent. I therefore believe that the criticism of the Court of Auditors, remembering the 1995 savings package, is not so much a matter of the 1999 budget, but rather a reminder for the current Federal Government, because the inflation rate has now increased significantly and the tax rate has been drifted to a historical maximum. I therefore understand the counseling words of the Court of Auditors in this direction. In any case, we are convinced – and in conclusion I would like to say this – that if this government continues to pursue this policy until 2003, it will not be able to keep the deficit to zero, but in 2003 it will have a false amount of around 100 billion schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20756	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. The clock is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20777	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But also: Mr. Ex-Finanzminister! To plan expenditure by 20 billion schilling and to be lucky that, thanks to a good economy, revenue is also higher by 20 million schilling, that is what I call point accuracy à la Edlinger! But also the deterioration in the ratio of public debt to GDP and the last place in the deficit in Europe Comparison goes into history as Mr Edlinger's punctuality. This is not surprising, however, because the actual structural changes and reforms were missing at all corners and ends. The pension reform has reached a referendum, the health reform has not even been remembered, privatisation has been carried out far too carefully, and the administrative reform has remained a lip commitment. This is how your budget speech, Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger, reads at the 1999 proposal, the last of your career! It reads itself as a gratification from above, there were countless support measures, but no actual structural changes. There were 1.5 billion schilling more here and 4.5 billion schilling more there, promotions there and promotions there. They played "desirable" to you, and the Minister of Finance distributed the gifts! – This was clearly no longer more memory for the voters, and your party, Mr. Edlinger, has been presented with the bill. However, a sentence from your 1999 budget speech was a positive one, and I quote: "We don't want a statement of the conflicts on the street. We do not want to build new social fronts in Europe. We want the social partners to work together to find solutions." Mr. Ex-Finanzminister! If this sentence was important to you for the benefit of the Austrians – and he was taken seriously – I ask you to take this sentence seriously in your role as opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20813	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20835	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! This is about the last Edlinger budget and its execution: In this context, it is not all as grand as Mr Gartlehner has said. If you had looked at the federal billing! On page 27 there are some Effects listed: The consolidation measures of 1995 and 1996 had negative side effects on public consumption and on public investment, there were negative Effects on the available income and also on the investment decisions of the entrepreneurs. The Wifo model study also shows that through this consolidation package by Mr Edlinger, then Minister of Finance, the unemployment rate has increased and employment has failed, that you have neglected to implement administrative simplifications and that you have also put in place measures of which socially weak groups have been seriously affected. – You should look through the report, Mr Edlinger, then you will not be so glorious here anymore! Next point: You have always celebrated this point accuracy. You have achieved this, but you have also caused the budget deficit to amount to 1.7 percent of gross domestic product in 1997 and 2.1 percent of gross domestic product in 1999. This means an increase in the deficit by 0.4 percent, Mr Edlinger, and an increase in government debt of 63.5 percent in 1998 to 64.9% in 1999! That's why it was high time another finance minister or another government came. What happens when socialist finance ministers are at work is now seen in France. The French received a letter from Brussels telling us about their budgetary policy. The Minister of Finance of our new government, on the other hand, has received a letter from Brussels, which congratulates him for the ambitious Budet consolidation. And it wasn't always like that! You have received letters from Brussels at the time of your regentship, in which you were highly criticized, and you have led Austria to the last place at the budget deficit. This new report praises the budget policy of the Minister of Finance of the new Federal Government, and I think it was the right decision to replace you as the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20875	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20905	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The debate concerns the 1999 accounts. The positive figures have already been mentioned. I would like to mention two negative aspects in my contribution. First: The interest rate has increased by 7.7 billion schilling in 1999, the interest payment totalled around 114 billion schilling, and there has also been an increasing trend in debt. Secondly, This criticism not only concerns the 1999 budget, but it has been a long time since: Each year at the beginning of the budget debate, in the so-called budget hearing, the experts also confirm that it has not been possible to put deep structural measures on the expenditure side so far. That means there's no controlling. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, the time is ripe, the new Federal Government has come about a year ago to re-rule Austria. We have decided two budgets in one year. The 2002 budget was prepared and it will be decided in March of this year. As early as 2000, the re-indebtedness was not quite 40 billion schillings and is therefore 15 billion schillings below the Federal estimates. In 2002, the balanced budget is the goal, that is, that there is no new debt, and that is a new quality of the budget implementation. We can also report that by 2002, the 60 percent of GDP ratio to the total debt will also be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is great praise and recognition from Brussels, and we very much agree with the 1999 accounts.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20950	The next speaker is Mr Müller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e20971	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. One of the largest German politicians, Konrad Adenauer, to whom one could look both politically and humanly – unlike today’s German government members – once noted: A look into the past only makes sense if it serves the future. Now we are dealing with the 1999 Federal Accounts. Let me take a look at the past! What do I have to see? – Red Finance Ministers who could not handle the Austrian tax money well! "Thanks to this policy – thank God has been abolished for a year – our homeland has around 2,000 billion schilling of debts. [[Abg. Schwemlein: Not "Thank God"; Haider thank you!]] 144 million schillings of new debts were made per day. With these figures Austria is certainly in the "Guinness Book of Records". Budget losses between 50 and 100 billion schilling were generated annually and were praised as a social democratic achievement. This kind of politics was neither social nor democratic. More than 100 billion schillings were put in the ÖIAG – conclusion: after a few years about 20,000 and more unemployed and a debt mountain of around 80 billion schilling. The "consum", once an economic flagship of the Social Democrats, went down thanks to their business ideology like the "Titanic". What's left? – thousands of unemployed, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, who had to put up with and block economic difficulties. In February 2000, the turn of events was positive for Austria. The aim of our government today is to improve economic policy, better social policy and better budgetary policy! Our Minister of Finance Grasser was only recently confirmed by Pedro Solbes Mira that Austria is on the best track to become a model state economically and socially. How did Chancellor Adenauer say so beautifully: A look into the past only makes sense if it serves the future. – My look into the past showed how not to do it. Looking into the future makes sense under this blue-black government, hopeful and confident that we are facing a positive future in which our children and children may also find an environment worthy of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21023	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21045	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The national accounts for 1999 showed a deficit of 2.1 percent of GDP. This has achieved the 1999 budget target, but according to the EU, we were in the final position as regards the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria. Therefore, the ÖVP and FPÖ have taken place almost exactly one year ago to reorganise Austria and the budget. The course will be kept, I promise you, Mr Schwemlein, even if the SPÖ and the Greens call for the reduction of the wage tax. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We do not do this for us, you can believe me, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We are well aware that saving brings much less approval than spending money. We do this for our children so that they will not be suppressed by our debts, and we do it for those who will come after us because they have a right to take over from us a proper state budget. We do this, of course, for our pensioners. With the Vrannitzky letter, no one could buy anything in 1995 – let alone today and tomorrow. Pensions are only safe if the government budget is in order. Everyone in Austria knows this, only the SPÖ colleagues still want to reduce taxes and spend the money that we don't have. [[Abg. Swimmling: If you say "everyone", you have to mean everyone too!]] We all see where it leads when the SPÖ operates. Austria must not become a bankruptcy like the "consumer"! This so - called turn, which has already been mentioned today, was urgently needed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I can assure you that this new Federal Government will by no means return to the old SPÖ foundry policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21104	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21125	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr. Ex-Finance Minister, the 1999 Federal Accounting Office is not a reason for euphoria, even if it seems appropriate in the case of superficial considerations, as the deficit is less than 1.9 billion schilling. Unfortunately, there is no time to present a deeper economic and financial analysis. The Court of Auditors has done so in a clear way. But already a series of budget deficits from 1997 to 1999 shows that the budget deficit in 1999 is 6 billion higher than in 1997. This is already the evidence put forward in figures that the socialist government had long passed the consolidation path despite appropriate loads. I do not want to address the debt of the state at all: historical peak – a result of 30 years of socialist financial policy! I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for giving an objective description of the negative impact of the SPÖ on the tax packages. This criticism is proof to us that it was absolutely necessary to launch a turn in fiscal and tax policy. The success of this new federal government can be measured: the highest level of employment in the Second Republic, created 30 000 new jobs, launched an administrative reform, took away 6 000 officials socially – of which 2 000 by dispensing – which led to pension reform, for the first time a decline among early pensioners. [[Abg. Swimmling: Which one?]] What does the SPÖ have to do with this? – Anxiety, panic, uncertainty of the population, fundamental opposition and the mobilization of the street! – This way will not go with this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21164	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21185	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Under the motto "It's all said, just not me," I'm just holding down a few facts. First of all, it is right that the budget cut by 1.9 billion schilling was lower than budgeted; but as negative, it should be noted that it was 2.2 billion schilling higher than in 1998. The interest rates have also increased relatively significantly compared with the year before, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors held as negative – and this has been called to mind – that no recognizable start to administrative simplification and no sustainable savings were visible. Very positive for me today is for the following reason: That was the last budget with such a high finish!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21218	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21240	Mr President of the National Council! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am, of course, very impressed by the way in which I am obviously able to express the positive attitudes of the government parties here in this House by murmuring by my appearance at the speaker's desk at 23 o'clock. Thank you for that. But despite all this, I would like a few... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Here too, honourable Member, you are appreciating yourself.]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Here too you'll be surprised! That was not positive!]] Dear Lady! I would have been very surprised if you had any positive comments. I've never heard of anything like this in this house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is not the point of discussion, but the conclusion of the accounts. I really regret that this discussion takes place at such a late hour, because it would have been interesting indeed to work out some facts. [[Abg. May. Trattner: We too! We're sorry, too!]] I would just like to remind you of a few points. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] First: The 1999 financial statements demonstrate the massive fiscal consolidation of the previous legislative period. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He still has humor around the time!]] The deficit has been reduced from 5.1 to 2%, which is a reduction of more than 3 percent. I would like to point this out in detail because you are constantly trying to ignore certain facts. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Edlinger also jokes at 23 o'clock!]] But the numbers speak for themselves! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, In the same period, from 1995 to 1998, debt has also been reduced from 68.4 to 64.9 percent. It is true that last year there has been an approximately one-percent increase, but this has not been justified by the administration of the budget, but by a change in the national accounts on the one hand and the turbulence with the Yen course on the other. This is clearly also to be seen as a fact. [[Abg. May. Trattner: So a super budget, isn't it?]] Third area: This consolidation was achieved under completely different economic conditions. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You still believe...!]] You have to find out. Growth and employment in Europe were different at the time, but inflation was 0.6 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He still believes there is no deficit!]] That is to say, an objective of the then Federal Government, namely to keep inflation in the lower field of the European Union, was successful. [[Abg. May. Trattner: He still lives in surplus!]] They succeeded in bringing Austria's inflation to the top of the European Union in a few weeks' time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If he tells another three hours, he made a surplus!]] You also have to represent that to the voters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Col. Edlinger! You probably made a surplus, didn't you?]] Fourth: Of course, this stable balance sheet called for measures that did not receive the approval of all. That's all right, too. But they were – and this is the first material difference – designed and developed in dialogue in that dialogue, which was a trademark of the former Austrian Federal Government on the issue of conflict statement. You, dear Mrs. Pecher, meant you shouldn't go to the street – you used any quotations there –: That's what I'm calling myself. But if dialogue capacity goes to zero when social partners are demolded if the government no longer listens to it, then this is a cry for the distress of many oppressed citizens whom you have brought into this situation by your policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who, please, cleared the computer? Who was that?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fifth, I would like to tell you the following, so that you don't think I'm polishing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Edlinger! Television's out there already!]] The structural reforms began in 1996. Even Mr. Grasser has written on page 5 in the budget report, which I would like to quote: Staff cuts started in 1996 were continued. The distribution programme was continued – not by the FPÖ, which always tries to represent itself in the public as a party of the "Inventive Crown". [[Abg. Haigermoser: Like what? What are we?]] In addition, 1 billion in 1999 were made available for education, science and research. – That is to say, what you see as news here is actually old hats, which have finally been expressed in the 1999 budget report presented by Minister Grasser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One last comment. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Last!]] We have tried to make those very difficult consolidation provisions from the point of view of social compensation. [[Abg. May. Trattner: It won't be better!]] It was a particularly high objective of the social democratic policy to actually weld the society of social cohesion more closely, a society of social warmth, appreciation and balance of interests. It's different today. We have experienced a turn, a turn to the cold, speechlessness, dialogue inability – and then you wonder that in the Austrian population there are sometimes different emotional changes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If that's what the "Grolli" hears!]] To do this, one must have a subjective and objective understanding if, on the other hand, the powerful in this country of dialogue are refused. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One last comment, because that has been said too. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now you say twice "last"!]] The economic research institute is extremely careful in its formulations. I understand that too. If I were as dependent on the Federal Government as, for example, the Wifo, I would also be very careful in the criticism. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] But it is interesting that Professor Kramer has identified two very remarkable points of analysis in the qualification of your policy. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Are you a cross-country beginner?]] In fact, he said that in the lower third of the income distribution, the measures adopted from mid-2000 onwards meant massive additional burdens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The innocence of the land!]] That is, our argument that you are squeezing the little ones shows you the Wifo in fact in his last report. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Edlinger, the idealess!]] And where the income tax question is concerned, in particular the middle income third will be asked to cash out. This proves that your target group is the top three incomes and that in the budget consolidation that you have presented to this House and that you are going through, the small and medium-sized incomes are simply the payers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is already a calender!]] We will talk about the stability programme and the one-sided consideration you have made here. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You don't believe that yourself! Is white nonsense what you're telling me?]] But I would like to stop with words that are not mine to qualify for your policy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's good!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Become objective!]] In this regard, you can read a detailed wording in a highly regarded Austrian magazine. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is the name of the "saw" magazine?]] I'll tell you. That's what it says: The Government's announcement that the budget should be largely rehabilitated on the part of the budget proves to be a naïve statement of intent, with less friendly assessment than a lie. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that on the 99er budget...?]] – That’s the comment in a magazine. You can say it's not a respected one; it's the "profile", a magazine that delights in a great readership. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Edlinger quotes "profile"!]] You're celebrating a year's turn. Their arrogance has become unmistakable, but pride comes before the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21698	I call Mr Egghart. Your speaking time will be limited to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21727	Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21755	I call Mr Egghart.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21776	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The 1999 federal accounts show that the famous crack sausage at the Edlinger dog is better removed than the budget at the Herrl.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21828	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft federal law on the approval of the federal accounts for 1999, together with the title and receipt in 439 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The approval of the national accounts for 1999 was thus granted at third reading. 12. Point Report by the Financial Committee on amendment 351/A by Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits, Mag. Reinhard Firlingenrund Comrades concerning a Federal Act amending the Poststructural Law (Poststructural Law Novelle 2000) (435 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21888	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21915	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! This point concerns the preparation of the sale of Postbus AG, a company with 3 300 employees and 1 600 mailboxes. This is a company that transports 150 million customers every year on 700 lines, with 80 million kilometers being laid down – that is, a company that has an outstanding public interest. Ladies and gentlemen! We are also proud that we have had a transport network in Austria so far, ensuring that almost all communities in Austria are approached several times a day, that the rural population is mobile without a car, that school bus traffic works, that the old and socially weak fellow citizens can meet their mobility needs, and that above all, the working population can reach their workplaces. Ladies and gentlemen! Her own constitutional service criticises that the assessment period for this draft law was far too short. They also do not comply with the provisions created. Under the legislative rules, you should have examined the financial impact on the federal budget, the Federal Planning Offices and other local authorities. In particular, they should have clarified the impact of this measure on the employment and economic location of Austria. – But none of this has happened, although you are almost threatening to destroy a significant part of public transport in much of our country. If you had analysed this, the disadvantages of post-bus traffic would have become more transparent and thus your policy would have become more transparent. Ladies and gentlemen! What does this Federal Government mean by transferring the mailbox to the ÖIAG? – I quote from the general explanations of the proposal for an initiative. That's what it says: "To develop its own privatization strategy for the Austrian Postbus controlled by ÖIAG, it is necessary to make the operation Postautodienst a subsidiary of the Austrian Industrial Holding Aktiengesellschaft (ÖIAG)...." It is therefore clear that Postbus AG should be sold primarily, possibly abroad. Behind the scenes, negotiations should have already begun in order to sell Postbus AG. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the Federal Government does not represent the interests of the people of this country in this case. This means that there may be no public transport in all regions, because there will be a direct stop by a private profit-orientated operator, or that countries and, above all, the municipalities will be asked to check out if they value the fact that there will also be a corresponding public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! They undermine a reasonable transport infrastructure policy, as it was still ensured by the 1990 Local Transport Finance Act. A transport policy must be long-term and must keep in mind the safeguarding of Community interests. In the area of transport, it is about cost coverage and not about making profits. It is about offering public transport services everywhere in the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly present the effects on employees. The tariffs are largely limited in Austria, so a private person can only achieve profits through cost reduction programmes and thus by reducing transport performance. Cost reduction is, of course, one of the main causes of the reduction in human resources. At any rate, this government adopts the public transport in this segment and therefore also accepts the interests of the people. Ladies and gentlemen! This is nothing but the destruction of a decades-long achievement of our country: a comprehensive public transport network. This is the demolition of public transport in Austria. This is a concept of technocrats, but not of transport politicians. The planned sale of Postbus AG to abroad is even criticized by your own people – for example, by ÖBB Head of Staff Stindl. He also pleads for an Austrian bus company. I would like to suggest: In this case, listen to him! For example, why not combine the mailbox with the ÖBB bus lines? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why didn't we do that before? Ten years ago?]] Why is the synergies resulting from them not finally being achieved to the extent of more than 100 million schilling? – Then schedules and workshop services could be much better coordinated and, above all, lower costs. Why don't you try to force regional local transport companies that could also include the secondary railways cost-effectively? – That would be a way that could be more forward-looking, a economical path, but a way that would further attract public transport. However, we reject this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21959	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e21980	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I have expected nothing but that the SPÖ will reject this request. The SPÖ once again paints the privatization ghost on the wall. The scenario of Mr Eder is a scenario which we have often heard here in this House, and is therefore not surprising. Ladies and gentlemen! The government parties are committed to this step towards modernising the public infrastructure system. The Postbus AG has no place at Post AG due to the different interests and tasks. It was therefore distributed and transferred to ÖIAG. [[Abg. Eder: Why is it distributed?]] This is not a privatisation – I have already said that in committee – but it is a divisionalization. The ÖIAG remains – for the time being, I say – 100 percent owner. [[Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer: One year!]] Later, Mr Edlinger – and my other colleagues from the Socialist Group; before You'll paint more horror ghosts on the wall here – we'll talk in detail about the models that are then available. Don't tell me it's all going down the stream! [[Abg. Eder: Who are you talking to?]] We will also make this company a thriving company, Mr Eder, who brings money to the state and does not cost the state money, as you have always done. This too is the turn and the turnaround, so I find this step correct and necessary. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] With regard to public services: There is a public service, Mr President, which you will not be advocating. Whether this is a 100 percent company held by the state or one held only 50, 25 or 75 percent: Public services are paid only if public services are provided. Otherwise, there is no public service. That's so simple! [[Abg. Eder: Who pays it?]] Mr Eder! Sage Please do not always ask that all the models that we know from other countries and where private and public work together and work well together are a embarrass! That's not true! They are also taught better because of the numbers. There are suitable models in Germany, and there are models in Switzerland where this works very well. [[Abg. Eder: In England, above all! He went into bankruptcy, the private!]] There are also models that work badly, yes, but that does not mean that we are automatically programmed to make it bad. You always want to hear what fits you into the concept so that you can paint horror numbers and a terrible future on the wall. We know that. We confess to the request. It will be a good future for the Austrian Postbus!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22093	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22168	High house! The previous speaker stopped the SPÖ Group, and she would see a horrendous ghost again. I think that the privatisation efforts that this Federal Government has so far shown can be a bit startled. The ghost you present here is probably you yourself, Mr Firlinger. Each time you explain to the other that they should make themselves smart before; this has now been the second or third time. I don't know. Are you the Chief Representative of the "Schweinchen Schlau" club here? – This will not impress us any more. [[Abg. Gaugg: Who?]] Second point: Privatization is of course not yet when something is transferred to the ÖIAG. But the whole thing is a contribution to a particular story, and you can discuss it calmly. The fact that a bus line or a larger company can only be managed in the first place is not actually eaten, because one can be quite open, but it is about regional and transport policy, which is basically behind it, and in this of your intention, mixed with that you obviously want to privatize at the same time, is indeed the macabre threat in this matter. So let's get together: In the case of privatisation that you are always looking at, one must be startled, and there are no transport policy guidelines that go against zero, at least as far as the regions are concerned. So in total, this is already a threat scenario, you can't wipe it out here. Next point: Whether or not the bride is being washed out, as some of you in the committee have said – I only take over this Jargon, I would not say that myself – is really saved, is very much the question. Additional costs are constantly being incurred, which at first do not bring much. For example, we now need our own staff office, because it is so divided. The Court of Auditors has criticised this in its opinion. I have put this in committee – answer null! That's how it looks! So you can't jump around with the questions and measure us there! [[Abg. Edlinger: He doesn't know that himself, he didn't make himself smart!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But that was sexistic now!]] Last point: Transport policy must, above all, have appropriate requirements, then one can talk about which companies are the appropriate ones that can fulfil these tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22251	The next speaker was Mr Kiermaier. Your speaking time is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22273	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! "More private, less state" – this is balsam in your ears, ladies and gentlemen of the right half of the empire. Nothing is more contrary to you than the common economy, especially the post and the railway. Now just come and just get the mailboxes on it. Since 1907, this company has existed, and it has always been there for people, from school to senior school. The first World War held out the mailboxes, World War II stopped the mailboxes, only the blue-black coalition they no longer hold. That's the tragedy of the whole thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said: 3 300 employees with 1,600 buses are on their way, 700 lines, 23 000 courses, 80 million kilometers a year. 250,000 miles per day! 19 bus centres throughout Austria provide 500 000 customers a day. Or, in other words – and that must be done on the tongue –: In just one day, the mailboxes travel around the earth five times and once to the moon, ladies and gentlemen, dear! That's a tremendous achievement! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness with the ÖVP, the liberals and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The characteristic – and this is the serious difference, colleague Firlinger, whom you do not want to call – was this traditional company and is the cost coverage, the philosophy of cost coverage, and not that of profit maximization. This is the crucial difference that we see very clearly here. One more thing, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: What you're planning is a diabolic thing. What do you think, who's going to the little places? What do you think the lines are not interesting? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Kiermaier!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: The Moonbus!]] Do you know what I'm really interested in? – What your gentlemen’s mayors will say in the many small communities once when the mailbox is no longer coming because it is not retiring. [[Abg. Edlinger: Auer, the bus is no longer coming to your community!]] Next point: You will increase the fees accordingly, and that is also not exactly a boasting thing. Nor do we take away from you what you have said to privatization, namely that privatisation is not to be thought of. [[Abg. May. Firmer: First!]] "First" – exactly! It is known that a very large company is active in this respect, which already has 12 000 buses and 3 500 rail vehicles in 16 European countries. They've already opened the garage gates, as they say, to cash our mailboxes. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is that the red Shamek?]] – That’s not the Shamek, it’s a Frenchman! [[Further calls to the liberals.]] I would like to conclude with you. The following words: You can say what you want, ladies and gentlemen. It was now elections, the personnel representation elections throughout Austria. You have been presented the invoice, ladies and gentlemen of the government: Cross-sectional gains of the SPÖ, where you just look! That's the bill you got, and that's only the beginning! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you believe that this goes on so that you can cash the mailboxes, pick up the post castles, lock the financial offices and the district courts – and then stand out here and talk all serious about the rural area! That you don't generate yourself! But you get the bill for that, you can be sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22462	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Voluntary time limit 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22483	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This breakdown of the mailboxes and the transfer to the ÖIAG, Mr Kiermaier, is not a threat scenario, but it is a hope scenario for the mailboxes. That is the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have been experiencing for ten years the miserable Push, which the socialist transport ministers have just made on this question. Ten years ago, it was Mr. Streicher, the Federal Minister, who has begun to create the great reform of the bus services, the merger of the buses and buses into a large, uniform bus company. – Nothing has become out of it! Only a uniform yellow coloring has come about. That was all that was left of these joint plans, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Trattner.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] What we are doing here is what you have been doing for ten years, but not because you have failed to understand the inconsistency of your own trade unionists and staff representatives, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] That is why we will create the conditions for a modern bus company, and it will finally come to what you have always wanted for yourself that the hundreds of millions of losses that the mailboxes have suffered over the last ten years will finally cease and a solid economic foundation will also be laid in this company, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Edlinger: Who pays that then?]] [[Call the SPÖ: I already hear the mayors!]] In this sense – I can finally repeat it – what we are now doing is a hope scenario for public transport and for the mailboxes in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22577	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22598	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kiermaier is obviously back from the moon. I think he was at the space exhibition first. She inspired him so much that he picked up the mailbox towards the moon. Back on Earth, we're dealing with a little more serious things. Mr Kukacka has just developed the great hope for the mailboxes only from the fact that the company is transferred to the ÖIAG. [[Abg. Edlinger: And there are no more losses! "Genial"!]] Mr President, I should like to thank May I ask you how do you take this hope if it is not completely clear that you are planning something completely different? I'm telling you quite honestly: Privatization or not is not a question of faith for me in the mailboxes. First of all, I am concerned with the quality of the operation, the safety of the operation and the fair mobility of the people in the region who depend on the postal bus. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Who pays? The grandkids?]] - That's right! They ask: Who pays? This is what the Spirit, who stands behind it, tells you: The mailbox has to be profitable! Just drive more where it's going to be. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Not true!]] Whether the region dies or the people can commute, if some people no longer come to certain places of work, because they don't have their own car, that, gentlemen, you obviously don't care. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Privatisation on these criteria has already failed in England, on the broadest and fullest lines. If I listen to you as you speak, I understand what you're doing with the mailboxes: A privatisation à l’anglaise, a ignore of any supply contract, a reduction of traffic to the highly profitable lines. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to run such a business economically. If I could have confidence in this government that it is able to write out and write out so that public services are further provided with sufficient quality that fair mobility is or remains in the region, where it is still available today, then I would have no problem at all with privatisation or this transfer to the ÖIAG. But the experience that we have had to do and the examples you are looking at – and which are mostly heading towards England when it comes to these questions –, gentlemen, are causing us to reject this request, because this does not guarantee a concept for a functioning public transport in the region – and this is mainly about it. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: And you are oriented to the past!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What experiences do you have with us?]] What's better? They rightly referred to them – and this is something we have always criticized, and everyone who is only a little involved in transport policy – that there are parallel traffic that cooperation between buses and buses has never worked. – Can you explain to me why this should now suddenly work better under these conditions? [[Abg. Haigermoser: If you require 35 S for the litre petrol!]] It's already a ritual, you have to say that. Maybe you should think about how to get rid of that. They're blocking themselves to thinking. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You always get on it so beautifully – check, and get on it!]] Just as it appeals to you to always come up with the unoriginal, same calls, I have to draw your attention to the fact that you are completely oblivious, that you have not understood anything that you have already lost a bet on this subject and that it simply does not use anything if you always repeat the same thing. This is an old and very stupid strategy, Mr President. Back to the mailbox. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How much is this in Euro? Calculate this!]] The strategy of outsourcing into the ÖIAG would be quite reasonable for me if I could see a concept of how and in what way the supply order for the region is secured, how and in what way a further development in the transport sector is created, and how and in what way we finally get a better quality of operation in this area. As you are currently doing, I fear the worst for regional transport, not the ÖIAG and this transmission are the problem, but what you have been able to learn from this sector so far. So far you have never been concerned about the weak, but they now live in the region and depend on these transports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22737	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22759	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This law introduces the end of the traditional postal car. I am therefore saying this with this rural concept, because rural mobility will certainly be called into question in the future. The whole thing needs to go very fast, must be whipped within two weeks. I am also aware of why it has to go so fast, because you have read how you can read in the various newspapers, even very intense sales talks with a French group – interestingly, most of them in state hands – and those there are only waiting for these mailboxes to be destroyed. It is also interesting to note that Mr Tancsits, the ÖAAB official, is on top of this request. He doesn't care about the 3 300 postal services in this area. Mr Firlinger, too, is on the top of the table and is in favour of spoiling the mailboxes and endangering the jobs of these 3 300 people. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I have been found – the Internet is really good for some information – on the homepage of the Freedom Workers of the Vienna Landesgruppe in the postal service. Since I read on this free homepage, the freedom workers have been opposed from the outset to a privatisation at the pace of liberation. And it goes on to say that long-term strategic partnerships take precedence over a money acquisition action, according to Johann Weinberger, Chairman of the Freedom Workers. The time is too short to go further on, but you can read on the Internet how much the free workers are also opposed to this deterioration. The last sentence is interesting: In any case, the workers of freedom know which side they are on. - I hope so. I think Mr Weinberger does not yet know what happens to people in Austria who criticize the government. I'm just saying, Sallmutter – gone! [[Abg. Edellinger: Yes!]] I think Mr Weinberger will not be holding this post for a very long time either. Ladies and gentlemen! A second approach: Who will people turn to when the postal lines are set up, the pendlers, the students, the older people? Well, they will turn to their communities, who will go to their mayors and say: Help us! We need the lines to be mobile in rural areas! – And then it will be loud and clear by the private businessman, who cannot profit from these lines: If you pay for it, we'll continue. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Moon and return!]] That'll be the result! I am missing the colleagues from the ÖVP who have been so committed to the small communities in the financial compensation. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Bullshit! Why does it work with the Americans?]] This is a threat to the finances of small communities. They will not be able to make these payments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This will seriously affect the mobility of rural people, it will be gone, and no person will care about it. With the financial compensation we then fight again for the small communities to get more money. We will vote against the fact that the rural area will be disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22834	The next speaker was Mr Edler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e22855	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This will be the highlight of the evening!]] The essential points of this Act, Poststructural Law Novelle 2000, have already been addressed. I would just like to underline a few facts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are responsible for the railway – always too late!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, in particular! Keep going! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, we will!]] Bad preparation of this law... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You're laughing, Mr. Club Chairman! The FPÖ will no longer laugh in Vienna! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Go!]] What you promised – everything broke! That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Also in this law: poor preparation. You are not interested in the problems of the thousands of colleagues who are unsure. But you are not interested in the problems of the regions, the people outside and the mayor. They have not taken note of the critical opinions of the regions, the mayor, the countries at all. It is, in fact, only a shift in subsidies for the buses if they are poorly frequented, but nevertheless necessary for the regions, from the federal government to the countries, to the municipalities. It'll be played like that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Admit it honestly! Admit yourself to that! It's also in the introduction inside. It is the continuation of your diletantic privatization wave! This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! It would have been to consider: What opportunities do we have in the Austrian market? – Not at all. The supplement will be awarded to foreign bus companies. And then you should look at these big bus companies: They are, in fact, state-owned. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Sramek!]] The main shareholder in these large enterprises is the state, you should know that too. And you also want to give up the core areas. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Sramek!]] Col. Graf, take an interest in the problems of the Danube City! Nothing you bring on, but you promised everything for the time when you're in the government: the S 80, the north-east pass! Nothing's moving. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The S 80 you promised, not me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: You continue your "Speed kills" policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Make Keep it up! The results of the election in Vienna will show especially the FPÖ where they belong.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23016	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23037	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This Poststructural Act will continue to sell out the Austrian key companies. I'm telling you today, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, this will be your next flop, after the catastrophic Telekom privatisation that you have brought about. For the assessment period – this too has already been mentioned –: A total of two and a half weeks were spent on the review, and six weeks were planned. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Colleague, do you write your own speeches?]] I'll tell you: They're just going over the deadlines. I am clear that you are, of course, overcoming the criticism of the opposition. In fact, however, they do not care at all about the criticism of the Constitutional Service, and that is a matter of concern to democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have it very fast, you deliberately whip as quickly as possible this template today through the plenary to suffocate any criticism in the germ. There are no calculations of the financial impact or any analysis of employees. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! With this sale of Postbus AG, you will actually destroy the Austrian local transport policy. You take the identity of an entire company and its employees, and that is your objectionable policy that we urge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know there's a lot of foreign interests. It is already under negotiation, as the media can be seen. In the end, all the spooks of the roof are piling that it will be a French state-owned company that will probably buy the current Austrian state-owned company. – A curious situation! I'll tell you: It is an error to leave national transport policy decisions abroad! This mistake will still be a revenge, and you will have to bear the responsibility for it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We do that anyway!]] Another thing: It is inappropriate to make a decision that can never be taken back, as in this case. For Their privatisation adventures will have to grip the Austrians deeply into the bag. A profit-oriented company, a profit-oriented owner wants to see money, wants to make cash, wants to achieve returns, and that will have people in that country to pay. The municipalities will of course also be invited to the cash register. [[Abg. Edlinger: Very right!]] Today, if I'm not mistaken, you'll be driving over with your majority. Keep going! With this decision you act irresponsibly and against the people in this country! You will get the bill presented for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23111	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 435 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (392 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Savings Act (434 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23162	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There are only two speakers to speak; then a vote will be taken. First of all, Mr Hannes Bauer. Voluntary time limit 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23193	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The present draft law introduces necessary adjustments towards the economic loyalty law, in the compulsory membership of the savings fund foundations, but also, above all, in the abolition of the authorisation obligation for the use of the renunciation reserve, which also corresponds to the desire of the savings banks of the first instance. The Styria, Vorarlberg and Niederösterreich even wanted this provision to be missed. I believe that the amendment of the annual authorisation obligation is in order and therefore is also worthy of support. What bothers me a little – and therefore also the word message – is that the municipal liability in the merger of a municipal savings bank foundation is, of course, generally lost. However, it should take into account the objections of the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB and be in line with the desire for an unlimited existence of the liabilities to the workforce, namely that the attorney's office for the workforce should not be undermined by a merger. I think that is essential, but this has not been taken into account. As far as the granting of direct distribution to individuals is concerned, especially for generous measures, I believe that this could also be taken into account. This, however, has not been taken into account. As far as the criticism of the Chamber of Economic Trustees is concerned, it is understandable from the point of view of economic fidelity, but I believe that the maintenance of the audit body of the Sparkasse audit association has quite a good reason, namely that the concept of belonging to the savings bank sector is preserved and that in the end this element of maintaining the sector association is also a positive factor in the assessment of the sector. I therefore believe that these are quite adjustments that are necessary and that we should support. However, I regret that the comments concerning the workforce and the distribution have not been received, because otherwise this draft will be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23233	Mr Müller has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23254	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! At the last meeting of the Financial Committee, the Federal Law to amend the Savings Act was discussed. This draft law takes into account the withdrawal of the economic loyalty regulation and the trader’s chamber law. As a result of the entry into force of the Economic Lodging Hands Act, the adjustments to the Sparkassen Act had become necessary. Nor is the authorisation of the Sparkassess Supervisory Authority's first instance on the donation of savings banks no longer necessary from the administrative economic point of view. The authorisation of the Chief of State for decisions on the use of the renunciation reserve led to unwanted delays in time. The proposed annual reporting obligation of the savings banks and the ongoing control of the use of funds are considered sufficient. The inclusion of the private foundations in the circle of the exclusive members of the Sparkassenprüfungsverband takes into account the fact that the audit office of the Sparkassenprüfungsverband is also the foundation and foundation auditor for these private foundations. I now ask the House to agree to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23293	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 392 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (271 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the promotion and protection of investment (432 of the supplements) 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (299 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Uzbekistan on the promotion and protection of investment (433) 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (353 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Uzbekistan on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income and wealth (430 of the supplements) 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (79 of the Supplements): Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of India on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and Protocol (431 of Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (354 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets and Protocol (429 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23398	We now come to points 14 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. There are no words available. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 271 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 299 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 353 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with the Protocol, in 279 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with the Protocol, in 354 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is unanimously adopted. 19. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions Nos 1 to 5 and Citizens' Initiatives 1 and 2 (302 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23484	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23512	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As the new committee chairman of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, let me say something that is also of a fundamental nature. This committee was set up as a committee for citizens' concerns. The aim is to create direct contact between the citizens and Parliament, and this is really useful. I believe that it is very important and necessary for this committee to be an interface between representative and direct democracy. If you look at the topics and content that the citizens address to us in the form of petitions and citizens' initiatives, you can see that every Member of Parliament and every Member of this House is well advised when he/she looks at exactly what moves the citizens and where they press the shoe. It would also be important and right for the government to address these problems accordingly. In this context, I would like to ask Mr President Heinz. I would like to thank fishermen very much for what they have been able to do with this committee. I had a letter in my mailbox today. In this, I am told by the President that there is now a direct link on Parliament's homepage to the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions, under the "Services" menu. Since 23. January will ensure this link for citizens, and this link will be accompanied by a list containing the information leaflet on the introduction of citizens' initiatives, agendas, the relevant rules of procedure, petitions and citizens' initiatives, the Committee's collective reports and a list of members to be consulted on each Member's biography and e-mail and postal addresses. I would like to thank the President and the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate who have contributed once again for this unbureaucratic solution. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Now to the first collective report in this legislative period. What was the main concern of the Committee in this first report? – There have been five petitions and two citizens’ initiatives. And I would also like to give you a small prospect of what the Committee is doing now, because reports are always past-oriented. That is why I would also like to inform you about what is currently under negotiation. I was able to make up more or less four themes, which are of particular interest to the people at the moment. On the one hand, it is environmental and transport, on the other, it is the subject of neutrality, NATO and peace policy, and large areas have also taken up basic and human rights, as well as health and education issues. In the period under review itself – i.e. until October last year – the citizens have been particularly concerned with NATO, active peace policy and neutrality. In this regard, the opinion of the people, as we have seen, is clear: It is demanded by Parliament, by the Members and by the Government that Austria be actively involved in peace policy and not join the military alliance. This is a clear content of the opinion of these citizens' initiatives. Anyone and anyone moving within the constituency will find that opinion confirmed again and again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Take this to heart! In this republic, the least people want the neutrality to be abandoned! No man wants to go to NATO, as we have seen! Please, listen to me! Make You don't have a policy against the people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I have just dealt with NATO, Mr Jung. At present, our Committee is increasingly working on initiatives on education. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What about the speaking time?]] Member of Parliament and Klubobmann Khol! This is a voluntary limit on speaking time! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's midnight!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Member of Parliament, young man! Do you know what the citizens are currently concerned about? – That there is an blatant reduction in education! This is currently the problem of citizens. They are afraid of the future of their children. Therefore, it is our duty as a committee to ensure in the sense of education policy – and if you take people seriously, take care of it with us! – that there is a corresponding survey. As part of these petitions or citizens' initiatives, there are some 45 000 signatures, Mrs Brinek, and I therefore propose that the signatorys of these initiatives invite these activists to Parliament for a survey and give them a hearing! I think this exchange of views would be good! Education speakers and science spokesmen are supposed to sit together with these people! Let us do something in the name of the population, in the name of those who burn it under the nails! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to mention that in this committee, we were particularly concerned about the mobile petition that we initiated in the past year. The action in this area was exemplary. In this Committee, all four political groups have taken one step together. We have tried to take citizens' concerns seriously, and have initiated a survey on the subject of mobile communications. This was particularly about two areas, namely the partisan position of the citizens in the case of the establishment of a so-called mobile mast and the fears of the citizens regarding their health. This high-level survey – truly excellent professionals were invited to do so – was held on 20 June. It was held in Parliament on June last year. The result was that concerns should certainly be included in relevant legislation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] The then Minister of Transport Dipl.-Ing. In fact, Mr Kukacka, Mr Schmid – you were there – has promised or announced that there will be a precautionary value, but no such regulation has yet been adopted. I hope that the current Minister for Transport, Dr. Forstinger, will be adopted this regulation that has been overdue for a long time. I say something now, even though Mr Khol is a little bored in the first row. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not "afraid," but annoyed!]] The Tyrolean Landtag has also dealt with this issue and calls for a uniform regime on the rights of parties in relation to mobile phone operators. This is exactly what we are talking about, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What?]] Explorers You are with Mr Weingartner, Mr Eberle or also with Mr Wartler. There is a call to the National Council! That's it! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you, especially the gentlemen of the Freedom Party, who have so massively supported the mobile petition – Deputy Dr. Graf, Deputy Mag. Schweitzer and Dr. Pumberger are among the signers –: Act on your Minister for Transport in the interests of citizens! Even if it's late, the time should not be too bad for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23631	The next speaker was Mrs Gatterer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23653	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to join President Mag. Worm, who is really trying to get all four parties together in this committee and, in most cases, to achieve a common outcome in the processing of the various petitions and citizens' initiatives. It has also referred to the next petitions and citizens' initiatives in the field of education. In this context, I would like to point out an abuse of this committee at the outset or perhaps an abuse of it. It is increasingly important that organisations, in the case of the ÖGB, try to claim this committee for themselves: Especially in connection with the petitions on education, there are forms in which only more different numbers are re-used. It is recognized that you do not make any particular effort, but simply send a mold petition to all socialist teachers and say: Collect signatures and bring them in as petition! – This committee was set up in 1989, and I do not think that was the purpose and purpose. Rather, they really tried to put a direct rail for the citizens to the Parliament so that they could bring their concerns and proposals here. Very briefly: Mr Wurm has already addressed the petitions and citizens' initiatives. I believe that the survey on mobile petition with experts from Germany and abroad was really positive. The outcome will be taken into account in the discussions of the Transport Committee. It is very positive that there will be Internet access to this Committee on Petitions in the future. – I believe that this is progress in relation to close-up to citizens. Finally, I would like to say that it is also very positive that this report is now being presented annually, because we have always complained that this report is presented in a large volume only every four years. I think we have to ask ourselves again and again how we can make the Committee more efficient. It is important – and I would like to mention this, since some of the administrative reforms have been mentioned today – that we do not forget a request from our committee: There are many communities today in which sixteen-year-olds can vote, and in view of this, we must ensure that they can also sign citizens' initiatives or petitions. This is an important goal so that this Committee on Petitions can work even more efficiently!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23695	Mr Kurzmann is speaking as the next speaker. The speaking time is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23716	Mr President. High house! I would like to confine myself to a few comments on three petitions from the collective report. The mobile petition has already been addressed by the previous speakers. The Committee on Petitions has held a survey on this subject on which supporters and opponents of mobile communications have spoken and have had the opportunity to express their views in detail. When scientists discuss – this has also become aware of us in this survey – the decision-making for politicians does not always become easier. But more than that, the Committee on Petitions could have done, the decision falls within the relevant transport committee. Second point – petition No. 4, expansion rather than reduction of bilateral development assistance cooperation: I believe that we are not only in the Committee on Petitions, but in the House as a whole in agreement on the importance of cooperation in development aid. However, the budget resources are, we know too, limited in this area as a result of the financial policy of the past decade, and we will have to focus on budget resources in the near future. In this context, I would like to repeat a wish which I have already filed in the Committee on Petitions: I believe that we should also take into account in the area of development cooperation, especially those areas to which Austria has historical contacts, such as the Balkans. Last point – petition No. 5, it calls for the preservation of ever-increasing neutrality and non-accession to military alliances: In this regard, it is natural to argue that today's neutrality, as it was true in the mid-fifties, is certainly obsolete. She's just a post-war relic. On the basis of the Petersberg decisions already mentioned, Austria has been involved in a new European Security Regulation, and I believe that it is important to take account of these developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23762	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23783	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been pointed out, in the last year of the year there have been relatively few petitions and citizens' initiatives, but not because people were not concerned, but because the people have only just come up with what has actually happened in this Republic because of the fog wall of sanctions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] The fact that this is the case shows the masses of petitions and citizens' initiatives that have occurred in recent weeks, particularly with regard to the dilemma of education policy. I believe that there are seven or eight petitions and citizens' initiatives alone on this issue. That is very significant! There has never been such a flood of petitions and citizens' initiatives on the same subject. This shows how dangerous this issue is and that people are afraid of their future when it comes to education. Interesting with regard to the past year – and for me this is already a piece of new quality – is what you can do with the instrument petitions. In the past petitions were made by citizens, groups and interested parties, and these petitions were usually – or not – brought by or signed by Members of this House, mostly by representatives of the opposition. Now this has changed. For example – and this is very interesting for me – in the petition No. 1 quite specific about road traffic accidents, and there are very specific demands for this. – I just want to read some of it: Exploiting the level of punishment for alcohol at tax level or increasing existing penalties, reducing the price of non-alcoholic beverages or increasing the price of alcoholic beverages, raising awareness campaigns among young people and adults on the risks of alcohol consumption, increasing home delivery services and building an improved collective taxi network in the city and country. You might think that's a call for opposition. – If you believe this, however, you are wrong, because that is a demand from the Federal Government, brought in by Members of the Short Farmer! [[Abg. Gatterer: Yes, and why not?]] And it is new to me that the government parties put these demands on themselves, so to speak. It would certainly be possible, with a motion for a resolution in Parliament, to decide on all these points in one vote. The government parties have the majority, and there are some others who would immediately join these demands. Ladies and gentlemen! What does that show? – That is not to be overlooked! This shows that it is obviously no longer possible in the government parties to express and implement one's own opinion or demand. The use of the instrument of petitions by Members of the Government parties, although these demands could actually be decided immediately, is, I believe, a new quality of democracy policy. This shows how firmly the clubmen have their political groups on the reins, that Members do not even have the opportunity to represent wishes and interests in their own party, and have to use this means. Nevertheless, I am glad that there is the petition mentioned. It has already been allocated to the Transport Committee, and I am already pleased today if we will decide on this request by Mr Kurzbauer with a huge majority in this House. I am pleased that the ÖVP and the FPÖ will act for the price reduction of non-alcoholic beverages and for the stronger punishment of alcoholic handlebars. I am curious when this will come, I wish it would come very soon, because that will be a revolutionary thing! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23833	The next speaker was Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23854	Mr President. High house! Before I come directly to the subject, I would like to make two preliminary remarks. First: I am very much with my colleague, Mr Worm, when she stresses the importance of the Committee on Petitions. I remember very well that in the past legislative period, the opposition – especially by the Members of the Liberals – still required much more rights for this committee. But what happened now? – At the last Committee meeting on 19 February, held in Brussels on 19 and 19 May, the European Parliament adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States of the Member States relating to the one part, and on the one hand, and on the one hand, and on the other, on the other. It was the case for the first time in January – and I have been working in the House as a full member since the beginning of my time – that the applications for assignment and treatment in a separate committee were voted down by – I am very concerned about democracy. Secondly, Member Gatterer has claimed that the ÖGB or similar institutions have, so to speak, distributed "Washzettel", "Schimmzettel", which will then only be signed. – I would like to reject this accusation very vehemently! After all, what is the case? – There have been a total of 50 000 signatures within the framework of eight petitions and citizens’ initiatives on education, of which 45 000 have been signed by the Catholic Family Association alone. These are probably not necessarily ÖGB functionals, as you have presented it here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If so many petitions and citizens' initiatives are introduced in the field of education in particular, this signals the fear that parents have in relation to the future quality of schools. I would also like to make a small contribution to this. The Lower Austrian State Teachers and the ÖAAB Group of Christian Trade Unionists are all vehemently demanding a reduction in the number of students. This demand is certainly supported by all teachers, including the Social Democrats, because if the quality of schools is to be safeguarded or increased and all requirements for schools and teachers really are to be implemented, then the number of students in one class is much too high. [[Abg. Gatterer: How many classes are there with 30 students?]] But what's going on? – According to a new teacher’s right, which the government is now negotiating, savings of several hundred million schillings are expected in the field of service posts! In addition, the packed financial compensation, with which all this will be prevented, which means quality in school. We are vehement about this demand for lower schooling. – I would just like to mention a few points. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Some points!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] We expect gift promotions, Mr Klubobmann Khol, and it will certainly not be possible with 30 students per class to really match all the talents! [[Rejoicing]] I mentioned you for this reason, because this is your favorite theme, especially with you, hold the highly gifted promotion! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why? I'm only mediocrely gifted!]] We have formulated integrative teaching as an appropriate goal, and in order to achieve all these things, we are fully on the side of the ÖAAB Group of Christian Trade Unions. Finally, I would like to say a quote from our Mrs Minister: "First of all, clear support from Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you mean the Dirnberger? I'm not on his side!]] - She's not present today. But perhaps it can take note of what it has promised these ÖAAB-FCG teachers, and perhaps it is in the process of implementing their promises.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23946	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e23968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite a slightly improved balance sheet for road fatalities, the subject of alcohol in road transport needs to be dealt with continuously and sustainably. I'm allowed to be a woman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haidlmayr: It was an occasion that triggered the petition of Mr Kurzbauer. There were two deaths, and two girls collected several thousand signatures, bringing in this initiative. Mr Kurzbauer has, in his capacity as a Member of his constituency, fulfilled this duty. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Will we decide next time on the motion for a resolution?]] We will respond to your wishes, Mrs. Haidlmayr! It is clear that there must be greater controls on road transport. The 0.5 promills stand, but there must also be more education in the future. In particular, we need to raise awareness of the danger of alcohol abuse in road transport among our younger people. So we need two rails in the future, once legal requirements and on the other hand voluntary initiatives and positive ways. In future, it will also be possible to reduce alcohol abuse on the road with a focus check. A road without controls promotes alcohol abuse. A second point, for me personally, is the education campaigns, from school to youth to adults. Without alcohol being "in" and thus increasing road safety, a foreign exchange must be. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A beautiful word!]] Finally, I would urge that drugs in road transport should not be impoverished. Lenker, who is under drug influence – we should all be in agreement – does not belong to the street. They're a danger. Alcohol and drugs in road transport are not a cavalier crime, they are all endangering us, and we must be vigilant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24017	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24038	Mr President. High house! I too have the statements, better said the demands in the petition No. 1 moved to devote myself to the subject, because there is also "youth and alcohol" inside. Unlike Mrs Haidlmayr, I believe that it was pure hazelling because nothing will change at all. I would also be pleased – there is now also a resolution tabled by Mr Firlinger and Mr Kukacka – if we could implement it. Yes, alcohol is a legal drug, and maybe just some of you consume this drug in the cafeteria. I believe that we need to discuss the issue as a whole, and I wonder what importance this petition and the motion for a resolution, which we will also have to discuss, really have, if this really reduces your executive and reduction programme, although one of the main demands of this petition has been called for: stronger controls on driving speed and alcoholization on the part of the executives. I'm glad to see the "car rulers" there is no such thing as that. Maybe salopp expressed: Men at the tax – great; of course, it's really, how aggressive some are on the road, that's right. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is sexistic!]] The subject of alcohol at the tax, also says: Drugs at the tax, due to some really sad occasions, is enough to discuss it. But the drug tests will not be able to do anyone because there will be too few staff, ladies and gentlemen. In general: What is it really about the importance of public transport in this petition – it is also addressed – when your foreign exchange is called: Weaknesses, public transport hunger in favour of the Früchter-Lobby? – Under what conditions the drivers often have to drive, that is also mentioned. What role does transport safety play in your policy, ladies and gentlemen, when it says: Concepts – please wait, please wait, please wait? What role – and now I come to my topic – do the young people play in your policy? . I remember also reading in the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs that a WHO conference on the main topic of youth and alcohol will take place in Stockholm in February. If you want to use the word "primary prevention" not only as a keyword, but also with the young people, you must also allow them to participate and participate in political decisions. Youths are repeatedly reminded of their obligations; they also have rights, they are easily forgotten. One important aspect of youth policy, for example, would be the right to primary prevention, with the chance that a moderate dealing with drugs will be learned and enjoyed, ladies and gentlemen. Alcohol – we know – is much more common in heroin dependence than any other drug. But I think we'll be able to talk about it tomorrow. The heading of the petition reads: "Does something always have to happen before we understand?" – I say: What else needs to happen before you understand?
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24076	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24097	Mr President. High house! At its meeting, as we have already heard, the Committee on Petitions has also dealt with two petitions on transport policy. Central transport policy issues were addressed, including the protection of the population from Alko-Lenkern and the subject of road pricing. First, the protection of the population from Alko-Lenkern: In January of this year, a devastating accident involving two executive officials revealed again the urgency of the fight against drugs and alcohol at the tax. However, we all remember the resistance, especially the ÖVP, against the reduction of the promille limit from 0.8 to 0.5. Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the ÖVP! Statistics have disproved you. According to a study carried out by the Transport Safety Board, alcohol accidents fell by 15 percent. Dozens of human lives were saved by the introduction of the 0.5-promill limit. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Worm.]] It can't be that the rumbling in drunk state is a cavalier's crime. I recommend that you take an example from the ÖVP of your party friend, Mr Kurzbauer. It has, in fact, brought in the petition referred to to to to intensifying the approach to alcohol drivers. Now on the second transport petition theme, the road pricing. Ladies and gentlemen! A deceleration policy of the ÖVP, which, following the turn to the worst of the FPÖ, has been repeated since 1998, has resulted in a billion serious damage to the state in the truck toll. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is wrong!]] The freighters are protected, but private drivers are strongly asked to cash out. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's wrong again!]] By increasing the price of the toll vignette by 80 percent and by 51 percent by 13 billion schilling, you have burdened the drivers with only a modest 900 million thanks to the car tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Who introduced the vignette? The SPÖ!]] With the delay in introducing the truck toll, the blue-black government giants cement the massive and unwarranted cross-subsidisation of heavy traffic through passenger transport. They also delay the necessary transport infrastructure development and thus endanger Austria's economic location. It's written to you in your master book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, it is environmentally harmful, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, to further promote the shift from rail to road. They have adopted a climate strategy a few months ago, where CO2 emission reduction in the transport sector is estimated as the largest chunks. At the same time, however, you adjust the sideways and leave the Frächtter-Lobby driving unscrupulously. Every delay in the truck toll also means the abandonment of road maintenance. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Who is the largest freight forwarder in Austria? The ÖBB!]] We know, ladies and gentlemen, that, for example, a truck train loads our roads around ten thousand times more than a car. They do not have 15 billion schilling due to the non-introduction of the motorway toll for trucks. You're very generous here. At the ambulance fee, at the motorway vignette, at the study fees and so on, you are not so generous blue black. I therefore gather: The SPÖ is concerned that the drugs at the tax are effectively combated in any form. Secondly, we strongly reject any further delay in road pricing.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24192	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24214	Mr President. High house! I too would like to deal with the issue of transport, a subject that is very moving our citizens. As my previous speakers, especially Mr Heinzl, have already made all the essential points, I can limit myself to one point. This is the reading of a motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Niederwieser, Mr Reheis and Mr Worm. [[Quoted print version removed]] A lot has already been done about the unworthy dispute between Forstinger and Weingartner. It is fully at the expense of the population, because, during this dispute, the ecopoints sinners are not punished. This is, in part, a legal problem to be solved here, which we want to bring about with this motion for a resolution. In some cases, however, it is also a problem for drivers who cannot check in the trucks whether the ecopoints are available at all. They have no way to do this, but they are the ones who are punished. That too is unsatisfying. I would therefore like to agree with this resolution, with which the Minister for Transport is asked to propose a solution to the National Council as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24271	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Dr. Deweisers, comrades and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report in 302 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Deweisers and comrades with regard to the adoption of clear legal bases to prevent violations of ecopoints obligations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 20. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Johannes Jarolimund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code (325/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24335	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the European Democratic Group. The watch is set to 4 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24372	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This application is a request for an amendment to the heating section 283 StGB. Basic intensification is a punishment when hostile attitudes are raised against certain groups, religious communities, peoples, tribes; sexual orientation is new. We have discussed several times in the past in the committees and have found, of course, with different opinions, that the question of the public, the dual public, is a provision which in reality does not correspond to the intention of this section and should therefore be resolved. It is to be transferred from the double to the simple public. - That's the one thing. The second amendment is that we want to include sexual orientation in the victimisation paragraphs, because there have been a number of problems, not least a relatively extensive criminal proceedings of Mr. Dieman – most of you will know this procedure – in which an unheard-of way has been fought against the same-sex, so that the judge in the course of the proceedings finally expressed his understanding and expressed regret that this provision, which, in the end, cannot actually correspond to what it means, namely, hatred, cannot apply. That is why we think it is absolutely necessary to extend this provision to hatred of homosexuals. We know from the discussion on § 209 StGB – that is at least my personal opinion – a change in the picture in the entire house. I hope that, in the context of further discussions, we will also be moving forward and accepting European standards on human rights. You know, there have also been numerous discussions in the Council of Europe and that with the position that the majority in this House takes, we cannot really stand in an intellectually fair discussion. I would therefore appeal that we enter into this discussion without prejudice in committee and without any buried positions, that we approach this issue from an open point of view and that we really take into account what the intention is. This is about human rights. In this sense, I can invite you to an open discussion. I hope that will be possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24415	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24437	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the hour ahead, I left my multi-sided concept in the bank. Let me just say two things. The first part of Jarolim's proposal, namely to remove the threat of public security in the event of atoning, would mean that any beer table pamphlet, any beery statement would be immediately criminalised. No one can really want that! – That is why we reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second rule, namely to include the homosexual group in the law, would also put a certain group under this protection. We look rather at the German regulation, which covers all the parts of the population against which it is hottened, than rather, because then hetze would be treated against black and blue as well as hetze against other parts of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24483	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24505	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Here I am, as in so many things, on the side of my predecessor Christian Broda. From him comes the provision for which Mr Jarolim now wants to win this House. There is in fact a gap in the overall process, which would pay off. It is, however, somewhere else when Mr Jarolim accepts it. First of all, there is the simple veneration of honor. It also demands a certain degree of publicity, and it can then try to falsify the person concerned as a private prosecutor. Furthermore, there is the problem that a group of people are being insulted, but not a single person can call himself directly affected. Then the legislator did not give him the possibility of honorary conduct. For example, if someone says, "The lawyers are loud criminals!", and obviously I don't personally mean it, I can't defend myself. At the time, I have already taken the view toward Christian Broda that this should perhaps also be made privately available. In the case of such a mass insult, every affected person should be able to defend himself. In addition, there is the ferment, also according to the model Broda, which says: If this goes beyond the private atmosphere and threatens public order, it should be an official offence. There we are now, and there is actually no gap there. I therefore believe that we Christian Broda – God has blessed him! – let rest and let us not change anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24551	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim, who expressed his full consensus on the intention of the initiative's proposal, said, among other things, that it would contradict intellectual fairness not to take action against the general European standard of human rights. I understand that he sees it this way – especially when it's so late. But that he will not be very successful has shown the opinion of the Chairman of the Justice Committee, Dr. Fekter. If you really hide and here you think that hetze against homosexual people in this country, hetze versus religious minorities, hetze versus other colored ones is to be compared with political criticism of the black and blue government, then that speaks for itself, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Who is hesitating?]] I don't have anything to add to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24621	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 325/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24657	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 67/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund comrades on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act to justify the federal legislative competence in animal welfare matters. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the minority!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nothing again!]] [[Abg. Dr. One: You're a no-sage party!]] We shall also vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 68/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades concerning a Federal Law on the Protection of Animals – Animal Protection Act – a period of time until 1. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 81/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Law on Economic and Social Rights, a period of time up to 1. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The cast farmer has gone to sleep!]] We shall also vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for reporting on the request made by Dr Peter Kostelkaund comrades on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, a period of time until 1. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 169/A by Dr Peter Kostelkaund comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act establishing a State Administrative Court. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Serial low!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 170/A by Dr Peter Kostelka and Comrades concerning a federal law on the procedure before the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court — Administrative Court order — a period of time until 1. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 329/A by Dr Peter Kostelka and Comrades concerning a Federal Constitutional Act supplementing the Federal Constitutional Act with provisions on a non-dispute state attorney. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a corresponding sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 333/A (E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier and comrades concerning measures to improve the level of data protection in Austria a period of time to 1. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Where is the Maier?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline proposal to give a sign. – It is the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2001-01-31-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00055_d7e24836	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 365/A (E) to 373/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 1809/J to 1839/J has also been received. I call the next meeting of the National Council for today, Thursday, the 1. February 2001, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
